591 STRUCTURE OF OVARY. Connec- tions. Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flattened from form and side to side. It is of a whitish colour, with either a smooth or a colour> scarred surface. Its volume is variable ; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half that size in width, and dimensions a third of an inch in thickness. Its weight varies from one to two and weight, drachms. The ovary is placed at the back of the broad ligament, and is { attached to that membrane by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter the stroma. Its outer end (g) is rounded, and is con- nected with one of the fimbriae at the mouth of the Fallopian tube. The inner extremity is narrowed, and is fixed to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord (Y),—the ligament of the ovary, below the level of the Fallopian tube and round ligament. Structure. The ovary consists of a stroma of areolar tissue con- structure, taining small sacs named Graafian, and the whole is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The peritoneum surrounds it except at the attached margin. The fibrous coat is adherent to the contained stroma. Along the a fibrous attached margin of the ovary is a slit (hilum), by which the vessels boundsr" and nerves enter. Sometimes a yellow spot (corpus luteum), or stroma, some cicatrices, may be seen in this covering. Stroma (fig. 186). The substance of the ovary is spongy, vascular, Stroma, and fibrous. At the centre the fibres radiate from the hilum towards fibrous and the circumference. But at the exterior is a granular material (cortical granular> layer) which contains very many small cells, about y^-th of an inch With cells, in size ;—the nascent . Graafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles or ovisacs (fig. 186) are round and trans- Graafian parent cells, scattered through the stroma of the ovary below the vesicles> cortical layer. During the child-bearing period some are larger than the rest (a) ; and of this larger set ten to thirty, or more, may be counted Fig. 186.* at the same time, which vary in size from a pin's head to a pea. The largest are situate at the circumfer- ence of the organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. Each consists of a transparent coat with a fluid inside. The coat of the vesicle named ovi-capsule (tunica fibrosa), is formed of fine areolar tissue, and is united to the stroma of the ovary by bloodvessels, which ramify in the wall. Lining it is a layer of nucleated granular cells—the membrana granulosa, which is thickened at one spot, and surrounds the ovum as the discus proligerus (Von Baer), fixing it contents to the wall. The fluid in the interior is transparent and albumi- * Ovary during the child-bearing period laid open. a. Graafian vesicles in different stages of growth, b. Plicated body remaining after the escape of the ovum (Farre).