664 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. motion of the head, state of the ligaments. How dislo- cation is produced in the lateral movements ; position after re- duction. Circum- duction, less free than in shoulder. What rota- tion is. Rotation in motion of bone, state of ligament. Rotation out: motion of bone; state of ligament; why- Use of bend of femur: towards the middle line of the body. Of the two, abduction is the most extensive, because the limb may soon meet its fellow when it is moved inwards, though, if it is carried in front of the other, adduction is considerable. In both states the head moves in the opposite direction to the shaft. Thus, as the femur is abducted, the head descends, and the greater part of the articular surface projects below the acetabulum ; and when the limb is raised to its utmost, the great trochanter comes to rest on the margin of the acetabulum, so as to limit farther motion. As the limb descends and approaches the other, the head rises into the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the inner band of the capsule is tightened over the projecting head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the capsule is rendered tense enough to arrest the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity serving as the fulcrum by which the femur can be lifted out of the hollow; in the one case (adduction) the neck of the femur rests on the brim of the acetabulum, and in the other (abduction) the great trochanter is supported on the margin of the joint-socket. After a dislocation has been reduced, the state of adduction, with the knees fastened together, is the securest posi- tion in which the limb can be placed, inasmuch as the head of the femur then occupies the deepest part of the acetabulum. In circumduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take place in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, whose base is at its ex- tremity, and apex at the union of the neck with the shaft of the femur. This movement is less free than in the shoulder-joint, be- cause of the greater bend between the neck and shaft of the femur. There are two kinds of rotation, internal and external: in the former, the great toe is turned in ; and in the latter, the more extensive of the two, it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur rolls backwards hori- zontally across the acetabulum, the great trochanter being put forwards ; and the shaft of the bone revolves around a line inside it, which passes from the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior half of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation out the head of the bone rolls forwards across the cotyloid cavity, and the great trochanter is brought backwards, whilst the shaft of the femur moves round the line on its inner side before noticed. The fore part of the capsule is now put on the stretch, and the hinder is rendered loose. The movement of rotation is destroyed by fracture of the neck of the bone. Its degree is proportioned to the length of the neck, and is therefore greater in the femur than in the humerus. Use of bend of, femur. By means of the angle at the union of the neck with the shaft, the pelvis is more firmly propped than it would