DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 670 Plantaris. Origin. Insertion. Position of the muscle. Use like gastrocne- mius. Detach soleus, and clean the deep fascia. Deep part of the fascia of the leg. Clean the deep muscles: dissect peroneal artery. Four mus- cles in the deep layer. Position and The plantaris (fig. 206, c) is remarkable in having the longest tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when it is stretched laterally. About three-quarters of an inch wide, the muscle arises from the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and the tendon is inserted into the os calcis with or by the side of the tendo Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed by the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of the tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little muscle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus. Action. It assists slightly the gastrocnemius in extending the ankle if the foot is not fixed ; and in bending the knee-joint if the foot is immoveable. Dissection (fig. 207). The soleus is to be detached from the bones of the leg, and the muscles and nerves entering it are to be divided ; but in raising it, the student should take care not to injure the thin deep fascia and the vessels and nerves beneath. The superficial muscles may be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis ; and the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the os calcis should be opened. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and deep layers is next to be cleaned ; and the integuments between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken away to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nerve to the sole of the foot, which pierces the ligament, is to be preserved. Deep part of the fascia. This intermuscular piece of the fascia of the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds down the deep layer of flexor muscles. Beneath the soleus it is thin and indistinct; but lower in the limb it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, which give it the appearance and office of an annular ligament in that situation. Inferiorly it joins the internal annular ligament between the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection. The deep layer of muscles, the posterior tibial nerve, and the trunk and offsets of the posterior tibial vessels, will be laid bare by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly concealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the two lateral muscles (flexor communis and flexor pollicis); and it will not fully appear until after the membrane covering it has been divided longitudinally, and reflected to the sides. To prepare the peroneal artery, evert and partly divide the flexor pollicis in which it is contained ; then define branches of it to the front of the leg, the outer side of the foot, and to join the posterior tibial artery. Deep Layer of Muscles (fig. 207). The deep muscles at the back of the leg are four in number, viz., popliteus, flexor longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee-joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of