287 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. the forearm arises a small palmar branch (5), which courses on the branch of ulnar artery, sending twigs around that vessel, to end in the of integuments of the palm of the hand : sometimes a cutaneous off- set perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two inches ng*^e0°fus above the end of the ulna, and passes obliquely backwards beneath back of the flexor carpi ulnaris : perforating the aponeurosis it is lost on the hancL back of the hand and fingers (p. 278). The MEDIAN NERVE (fig. 81, *) leaves the hollow of the elbow Median between the heads of origin of the pronator teres, and takes the between middle line of the limb to the hand. It is placed Jbeneath_ the the two flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the annular ligament, ^scles* where it becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly the nerve passes beneath the annular liga- ment to the palm of the hand. The nerve supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and furnishes a cutaneous offset to the hand. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, Supplies the and are distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer except ^t e™cept the flexor carpi ulnaris ; in addition, the nerve supplies the deep and a layer through the interosseous branch (p. 289), except the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. The cutaneous palmar branch (3) arises in the lower fourth of A ^u^nte°us the forearm ; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and paim of crosses over that ligament to reach the palm of the hand. nand- The radial nerve is the smaller of the two branches into which Radial nerve the musculo-spiral divides at the elbow. This nerve is placed along m the outer border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus the forearm' (fig. 80), and on the outer side of the radial artery till within three inches of the wrist, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior border of the supinator tendon. On the surface of the limb it ends on divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of of tlie the hand, and digits (p. 278). No muscular offset is furnished by , the nerve. Dissection (fig. 81). To examine the deep layer of muscles it will Dissection be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm laye^of the pronator teres ; to detach the flexor sublinlis from the radius, muscles: and to remove its fleshy part. The areolar tissue is to be taken from the deep muscular fibres ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous membrane, and are con- cealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Above the ends of the forearm-bones the arch of the anterior show carpal carpal arteries may be defined. arcl1' Deep Layer of Muscles. There are only three deep muscles Three mus- 011 the front of the forearm. One lies on the ulna, and is the deep deepTayer. flexor of the fingers ; a second covers the radius, viz. the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, which lies beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. The FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS Vel PERFORANS (fig. 81, C) arises Deep flexor of fingers.