THYROID BODY. 119 In the middle line lie the remains of the thymus gland, and the in middle trachea and oesophagus. In front of the trachea are the lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles with layers of the cervical fascia, and the inferior thyroid veins ; and behind the gullet and windpipe is the longus colli muscle. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the bag of the pleura and the apex of the lung On each project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and Slde' the trachea and oesophagus, are placed the vessels and nerves pass- ing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both Partly the sides lie the innominate vein, the phrenic nerve, and the internal both sides, mammary artery; but the vessels and nerves next met with are and partly different on the two sides :—On the right side come the innominate not* artery, with the vagus, the cardiac nerves, and the right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the ■cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first intercostal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior intercostal vessels. The thyroid body (fig. 16, 12) is a soft reddish mass, which is Thyroid situate opposite the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two body lobes, one on each side, which are united by a narrow piece across twoSiohesf the front of the windpipe. The connecting piece, about half anandacross inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed opposite the piece' second and third rings of the air tube. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is interposed between Connections the windpipe and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies ; but usually it reaches as high as the extent of middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper part of the thyroid body, and most commonly Accessory piece or from the left lobe, a conical piece—pyramid, ascends towards the pyramid, hyoid bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band. Sometimes this part is attached to the os hyoides by a slip of muscle, the leva- tor glandulce thyroideoz of Soemmerring. This body is of a brownish red or purple hue, is granular in tex- Weight and ture, and weighs from one to two ounces. Its size is larger in the slze' woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid yel- No duct, lowish fluid escapes. It has not any excretory tube or duct. Structure. The thyroid body is not provided with a distinct cap- No distinct sule ; but it is surrounded by areolar and fine elastic tissues, which capsule- project into the substance and divide it into masses. The substance of the gland consists of spherical or elongated Consists of vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large as the head of a vesicles> small pin, and others only -gi^tli of an inch. These vesicles are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a yellowish fluid with a with corpuscles. The wall of the vesicles consists of a thin proper and^ecSr membrane, with a nucleated epithelial lining. Fine vessels and coat.