736 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. At the bottom of the ball the membrane is closely connected with the retina. Structure of the vitreous mass. From the slow escape of the fluid after puncture of the hyaloid membrane it has been supposed that there are membranous partitions, dividing the vitreous mass into compartments which communicate with each other. In the centre of the vitreous body is a fibrous canal, which reaches to the back of the lens, and transmits a branch from the central artery of the retina to the lens capsule in the fetus. The vitreous mass and the hyaloid membrane are extra-vascular, and receive their nutritive material from the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspensory ligament of the lens (Zonule of Zinn). This is a trans- parent membranous structure (fig. 233, £), placed around the lens capsule, which joins externally the hyaloid membrane opposite the Fig. 233.* Structure. with a central canal. How nourished. Suspensory ligament, is marked by folds called ciliary processes. Condition how altered. Canal of Petit: situation : anterior part saccu- lated. anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached from it, dark lines of pigment cover the surface ; and when these are washed away, plaits {ciliary processes) come into view, which are less prominent and longer than the processes of the choroid coat, and do not quite reach the lens capsule internally. The two sets of prominences are dovetailed together,—the projections of one being received into hollows between the other. In this membrane are stiff longitudinal and elastic fibres. The tenseness or laxness is influenced by the state of the ciliary muscle, for during its contraction the membrane is rendered lax by the drawing forwards of the ciliary processes. Canal of Petit. Around the margin of the lens capsule is a small canal (fig. 233, o) about one-tenth of an inch across, which is situate between the suspensory ligament and the front of the hyaloid mem- brane. When the canal has been opened, and filled with air by means of a blowpipe, it is sacculated at regular intervals, like the * Enlarged representation of the parts of the eyeball on one side opposite the lens : the letters refer to the same parts as in the woodcut, 255. d. Cornea. e. Ciliary muscle. /. Iris. g. Lens. i. Posterior chamber, j. Ciliary part of the retina. m. Ciliary ligament, n. Hyaloid membrane, o. Canal of Petit, r. Sinus circularis iridis. s. Ciliary process. t. Sus- pensory ligament of the lens.