72 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Cervical nerves. Position and number. First two differ from rest. Brachial plexus, formed by five nerves. Disposition of nerves in the plexus. Branches : in the neck are:— Nerve of subclavius. Nerve of rhomboi- deus. Nerve of serratus. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES spring from the common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. These nerves are eight in number, and are equally divided between the cervical and the brachial plexus ; the highest four being combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter plexus. The nerves receive offsets of communication from the sympathetic at their beginning, and intermix by means of numerous branches near the spine. To this general statement some addition is needed for the first two nerves ; and their peculiarities will be noticed in Section 18. Brachial Plexus. The four lower cervical nerves and part of the first intercostal are blended in this plexus ; and a fasciculus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the neck to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nerves have but little of a plexif orm disposition : they lie at first between the sealery, muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebras, and have the following arrangement:— The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebras ; the seventh remains distinct as far as the outer border of the middle scalenus ; and the last cervical and the piece of the first intercostal are blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus ; so that they make at first three cords. Near the attachment of the middle scalenus to the rib, the seventh nerve throws itself into the trunk of the united fifth and sixth, and then there result two cords to the plexus :—the one (upper) formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves ; and the other (lower) by the eighth cervical and the first intercostal nerve. These two trunks accompany the sub- clavian artery, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla where they are more intimately blended. Branches. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. The highest set end mostly in muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the scapula ; whilst the other set consist of the terminal branches, and are furnished to the upper limb, with which they will be referred to. Branches above the Clavicle. The branch of the subclavius muscle is a slender twig, which arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the under surface of the muscle ; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The branch of the rhomboid muscles springs from the fifth nerve in the substance of the middle scalenus, and perforates the fibres of that muscle ; it is directed backwards beneath the levator anguli scapulas to its destination. Branches are given usually from this nerve to the levator anguli scapulas. The nerve of the serratus (posterior thoracic nerve) is contained in the scalenus, like the preceding, and arises from the fifth and