96 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 'Oenio- liyoideus. 'Connec- tions. •Genio-hyo- Origin. Insertion. Contiguous parts. Use: the tongue tongue fixed. the roof of the mouth, but if the tongue is protruded they will restore it to the cavity. One muscle can direct the point of the tongue towards its own side of the mouth. The genio-hyoid muscle (fig. 22,4) arises from the lower of the two lateral tubercles on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the Fig. 22.* middle of the hyoid bone. Covered by the mylo-hyoi- deus, this muscle rests on the genio - hyo - glossus (3). The inner border touches the mus- cle of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Action. As long as the mouth is shut it raises the hyoid bone ; but acting from the os hyoides, and the closers of the mouth being relaxed, it can depress the jaw and open the mouth. The GENIO - HYO - CxLOSSUS (fig. 22, 3) is the largest muscle of this region ; it has a triangular form, with the apex at the jaw, and the base at the middle line of the tongue. It takes origin from the upper tubercle behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the pos- terior passing downwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate to the tongue from root to point. Lying along the middle of the tongue, it is in contact with its fellow. The lower border of the muscle corresponds with the genio- hyoideus, and the upper with the frsenum lingua?. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the posterior fibres. Action. By the simultaneous action of all the fibres the tongue is depressed in the floor of the mouth, and hollowed along the middle. But different parts of the muscle are thought to have different uses when they act from the jaw :—Thus the fibres attached to the os hyoides advance and fix that bone before swallowing ; the hinder tongue fibres raise the root of the tongue and protrude the tip ; and the anterior turn down the tip of the tongue over the teeth. When the mouth is open swallowing can be performed if the tongue is fixed against the teeth and roof of the mouth, because this muscle and the hyo-glossus can then raise the hyoid bone. * Muscles of the tongue. 1. Hyo-glossus. 2. Stylo-glossus. 3. Genio- hyo-glossus. 4. Gfenio-hyoideus. 5. Stylo-pharyngeus.