636 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and pelvis. Opening for the vessels; boundaries. Psoas and iliacus in the thigh. Insertion into femur. Parts around. Use. Obturator externus : insertion. The adduc- tors cover it, and it touches hit. joint. Use. Detach obturator. jector forwards of the femur in walking : in the last office it receives help from the other adductors internally, and from the gluteus medius and minimus externally. The femur being fixed it will act powerfully in keeping the pelvis erect on the head of the thigh bone. The opening in the adductor for the transmission of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous at the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the point of junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus interims ; and on the inside by the tendon of the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. The psoas and iliacus (fig. 196) arise separately in the abdomen (p. 537), but are united in the thigh,—the conjoined portion of the muscles lying beneath Poupart's ligament. The psoas, P, is in- serted by tendon into the small trochanter of the femur ; and the fleshy iliacus, o, joins partly the tendon of the psoas, but the rest of its fibres are fixed into a special triangular surface of bone in front of and below the trochanter. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the interval between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous process,—the iliacus resting on a small bursa ; and below the pelvis the mass covers the capsule of the hip joint, and a larger intervening bursa. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nerve. The pectineus and the internal circumflex vessels are contiguous to the inner border ; and the sartorius and vastus internus touch the outer edge. Action. These muscles act as flexors of the hip joint ; and their use on the spinal column is given with the description in the abdomen (p. 538). The obturator externus (fig. 196, F) is triangular in form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the anterior half ; and from the bony circumference of the thyroid foramen for the anterior half or more,—the attach- ment being an inch wide opposite the symphysis pubis. The fibres are directed obliquely backwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, and adductor brevis and magnus. It covers the obturator membrane and vessels, and is pierced by a branch of the obturator nerve. As it winds back it is in contact with the inner and lower surfaces of the hip joint. The insertion of the muscle will be seen in the dissection of the Buttock (p. 648). Action. The muscle is an external rotator of the thigh : and its action will be given in full with the other muscles of the same group in the Buttock (p. 649). Dissection. By detaching a small piece of the obturator muscle