637 OBTURATOR, MUSCLE AND VESSELS. from the pelvis, the branches of the artery and nerve of the same name will be seen amongst its fibres. A better view will be obtained if the dissection of the vessel and nerve is deferred till after the limb is detached. The obturator artery is a branch of the internal iliac (p. 563), Obturator and enters the thigh through the top of the thyroid foramen. In arteiy the aperture the artery divides into two pieces, which form a circle divides into on the obturator membrane beneath the muscle :— and upper The upper branch extends along the inner half of the membrane ; and the lower, perforating the membrane below the level of the lower other, turns downwards and forms a circle by uniting with the branch: upper branch. An articular twig to the hip joint is supplied from this gives the lower branch. ?w^and Muscular offsets of the artery are furnished to the obturator muscles, nmscuiar. and some small twigs reach the upper end of the adductors. Branches of nerve to the external obturator muscle come from Branches of the deep portion of the obturator, and perforate the membrane with the nerve- the lower branch of the artery. Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OR THE GLUTEAL REGION. Directions. Both this Section and the following one (to p. 665), Directions, are to be completed by the student in the time appointed for the body to lie in the prone position. Position. During the dissection of the back of the thigh the body Position of is placed with the face down ; and the pelvis is to be raised by the body' blocks, until the lower limbs hang almost vertically over the end of the dissecting table. When the body is turned, the points of bone marking posteriorly the limit between the thigh and the abdomen can be better ascertained. Dissection. The integument is to be raised from the buttock by Take up the means of the following incisions :—One is to be made along the skin: iliac crest of the hip bone, and is to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be carried outwards across the thigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out is to be thrown down. Many of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be found in seek cuta- the fat along the line of the iliac crest (fig. 197). Thus in front, onThVSt but rather below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous, if these have not been cut in the dissection of the thigh. Crossing the crest towards the fore part is a large offset of the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back, but close to the bone, a smaller branch from the ilio-hypogastric nerve. In a line with the outer border of the erector spinas, are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves.