635 ADDUCTOR MAGNUS MUSCLE. The third artery (Ji) springs from the deep femoral trunk below Third, the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces And the the adductor magnus near the aperture for the femoral artery. afourth! Muscular or anastomotic branches (i) to the back of the thigh Anastomotic (three or four in number) pass through the adductor magnus at branches, some distance from the linea aspera, and end in a chain of anasto- moses in the ham-strings (p. 659). The profunda vein results from the union of the different branches Profunda corresponding with the offsets of its companion artery. It accom- panies closely the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, and ends above in the femoral vein. Dissection. To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz., ad- ^Ed^^^11 ductor magnus, obturator externus, and the psoas and iliacus inser- brevis. tion, the adductor brevis is to be cut through near the pelvis, and to be thrown down. Then the investing layer of fascia and areolar tissue is to be removed from each muscle. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The adductor magnus (fig. 126, E) is narrow at the pelvis, and Adductor m&gnus j wide at the femur. It is triangular in form, with its base directed upwards, one side being attached to the femur, and the other free at the inner side of the thigh. The muscle arises along the pubic arch of the innominate bone origin is outside the other adductors, reaching from the symphysis to the narrow' lower part of the ischial tuberosity. The anterior fibres diverge fibres from their origin, being horizontal above but more oblique below, theirInser- and are inserted (from above down) into the line from the great tion> trochanter to the linea aspera ; into the linea aspera ; and into the ^2onMS line leading from that crest of bone to the inner condyle for about others an inch. The posterior fibres from the ischial tuberosity are vertical vertical, in direction, and end at the lower third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, and is con- nected by a fibrous expansion to the inner condyloid ridge. The muscle consists of two parts, which differ in their characters, and form The anterior one, thin and fleshy, forms a septum between the other two parts* adductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the pos- terior piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface are the other two adductors and the pectineus, with the obturator nerve and the Connections profunda vessels. The posterior surface touches the ham-string of surfaces> muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are the obturator externus and the quadratus f emoris, with and borders, the internal circumflex vessels ; and along the inner border lie the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the JjJJJ^J^ muscle is closely united with the other adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and is there pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Action. This muscle is used as an adductor, but chiefly as a pro- Use on ' J r femur