CHAPTER IV. DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Section I. CAVITY OF THE THORAX. Definition. €ontents of cavity. Dissection to open thorax. Sternum to Ibe kept. Form in general. On a cross section. Boundaries. The cavity of the thorax is the space included by the spinal column, the sternum, and ribs, and by certain muscles in the intervals of the bony framework. In it the organs of respiration, and the heart with its great vessels are lodged : and through it the gullet, and some vessels and nerves are transmitted. Dissection. Supposing the soft parts covering in front the bony parietes of the thorax to have been examined and taken away, the cavity is to be opened by removing a portion of the anterior boun- dary. To make a sufficient opening in the thorax, the sternum is to be sawn through opposite the interval between the first two ribs, and again between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. After detaching the lining membrane (pleura) from the inner surface of the chest, the student is to cut through the true ribs, except the first and seventh,* as far back as he can conveniently reach. The loose sternum and the ribs can be removed by dividing the internal mammary vessels, the triangularis sterni, and the intercostal muscles in the first and sixth spaces. The bag of the pleura, and the cavity with its contents, will be now ready for examination. The sternum and the cartilages of the ribs will be required here- after for the dissection of the ligaments. Form. The included cavity is irregularly conical, with the apex above and the base down ; and it appears, from the collapsed state of the lungs, to be only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant space is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a horizontal section its shape would appear somewhat cordiform ; for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished in the middle line by the prominent spinal column, and is projected backwards on each side of the spine. Boundaries. On the sides are the ribs with their intercostal muscles ; whilst in front is the sternum ; and behind is the spine. * The student must be mindful to leave those ribs uncut; the division of them will not be advantageous to him, and will injure the dissection of the neck and abdomen.