DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 488 coronary from the stomach; splenic from the spleen, stomach, pancreas, and intes- tine. Vena portse : its origin, length, and termi- nation. Accessory and terminal branches. Vena portee wants valves ; resembles an artery. Hepatic duct. Common hepatic duct. Common bile duct; length and course. Termina- tion : joined by pancreatic. and pancreas, pour their blood into the vena portse. The two mesenteric veins and their branches have been referred to (p. 478) ; and the two following, with the trunk of the portal vein, remain to be noticed. The superior coronary vein (fig. 144, /) lies along the upper border of the stomach. It begins in the cesophagns and the left end of the stomach and joins the vena portas at the pylorus. The splenic vein (fig. 144) is large in size, and is formed by the union of branches from the spleen. It takes much the same course as the artery, but below that vessel, and runs beneath the pancreas to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein (b) to form the vena portse. Between its origin and termination it receives branches corre- sponding with the following arteries :—vasa brevia (#),left gastro- epiploic (e), and pancreatic. The inferior mesenteric vein (d) opens into it about its middle. The vena portce (fig. 144, a) is formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its origin is placed in front of the vena cava, but beneath the pancreas and two inches from the right end. The vessel is about four inches long, and is directed upwards in the small omentum, behind the bile duct and the hepatic artery, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. In its course it is joined by the coronary vein (/), and by the cystic vein near the liver. The right branch enters the transverse fissure to ramify in the right lobe of the liver. The left branch is distributed to the left half of the liver, and gives a small branch to the Spigelian lobe. This vein commences by roots in some viscera of the abdomen, like any other vein, but it is deficient in valves ; and it ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery. Its radicles communicate with the systemic veins on some parts of the intestinal tube, but more particularly on the rectum. Bile ducts. Two hepatic ducts issue at the transverse fissure of the liver (fig. 156), one from the right and another from the left lobe, and unite to form the following :— The common hepatic duct is an inch and a half long, and receives at its termination the duct of the gall bladder, the union of the two giving origin to the common bile duct. The common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus) is about three inches long. It descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse portion of the duodenum ; then passing between the pancreas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, it opens into this portion of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Whilst in the small omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. Before piercing the coats of the intestine it is joined commonly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately.