71 SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. body it divides into branches which ramify in the under surface, and communicate with the superior thyroid, and its fellow, forming a very free anastomosis between those vessels. Near the larynx a laryngeal branch is distributed to that tube, gives laryn- and other offsets are furnished to the trachea. geal offbCt' The ascending cervical branch of the thyroid is directed upwards and a^e^j between the scalenus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in branch, branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets are conveyed along the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes. The veins corresponding with the branches of the thyroid axis Veins cor- have the following destination :—those with the suprascapular and toSarteriesg transverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein, beginning in the thyroid body, descends in front of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering this tube, to the innominate vein. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior part of ^^Jj.^ the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck of the first rib : branch! its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax (p. 363). Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical artery ^e£r£J^' (art. profunda cervicis). Analogous to the dorsal branch of an intercostal artery (Quain), it passes backwards between the trans- verse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, lying internal to the two hinder scaleni muscles and the fleshy slips con- tinued upwards from the erector spinas, to end beneath the com- plexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. A spinal branch (Quain) is frequently given from the second part ^jj^ of the artery ; its offsets are continued into the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina. The subclavian vein has not the same limits as the companion Subclavian artery, reaching only from the lower edge of the first rib to the vem' inner border of the anterior scalenus. It is a continuation of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the inno- minate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus. Branches. The anterior and external jugular join the subclavian Its vein outside the scalenus, and the vertebral vein enters it inside that muscle. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 27, 9) ; and at the like opening of spot, on the left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic duct ends J^t^1*0 (fig. 27, 8). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian trunk is valves, placed outside the opening of the external jugular vein.*" It should be borne in mind that not unfrequently the vein is as Position high in the neck as the third part of its companion artery ; and that may vary* the vein has been seen twice with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. * See a paper on the Valves in the Veins of the Neck in the Edin. Med. Journal of Nov., 1856, by Dr. Struthers.