166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. cricoid and thyroid car- tilages are an anterior ligament, Use ; and a lateral joint, Between cricoid and arytsenoid is a capsule and synovial sac. Use. joined in the middle line in front by ligament ; and on the side, by a joint, with the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The crico-thyroid ligament or membrane (fig. 44, 6) closes the space between the thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages, and the right half is now visible. It is yellow in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At the centre it is thick and strong, but is thinner on each side as it is continued backwards. B}r the lower border it is fixed to the upper edge of the cricoid as far back on each side as the joint with the arytenoid cartilage. Its upper border, free and rounded, is covered by mucous membrane, and forms the lower vocal cord. In front it is united to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind to the base of the arytenoid. The ligament is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle, and some small apertures exist in it for the passage of fine arteries into the larynx. The strong fore part of the ligament serves the purpose of uniting the two large laryngeal cartilages ; and the lateral, closing the larynx, ends above in the vocal cord. A capsular ligament surrounds the articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid and the lower cornu of the thy- roid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. This joint admits forward and back- ward movements of the thyroid carti- lage, by which the condition of the vocal cords is altered. If that cartilage is moved forwards the cords are stretched, and if back- wards the cords are relaxed. Articulation of the cricoid and arytcenokl cartilages. The articular surfaces of the cartilages are retained by a loose capsule, and possess a synovial sac. The capsular ligament is fixed to each cartilage around its arti- cular surface ; and is the strongest on the inner and posterior aspects —posterior ligament. A loose synovial membrane is present in the articulation. The arytsenoid cartilage glides freely forwards and backwards, inwards and outwards ; but if its horizontal movements are con- trolled by muscular action, it can be rotated around a vertical axis, the anterior spur being moved inwards and outwards. Obviously the state of the vocal cords will be changed by the movements of * View of the vocal cords and crico-thyroid ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Post, crico arytagn. muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Arytenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryngis. 6. Crico-thyroid membrane.