DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 174 Between skull and axis is a wide layer. Dissection of transvers ligament. to be removed except in the first three, the arches of these vertebra? are to be sawn through close to the articular processes. Nextly the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the foramen mag- num is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal; and, on raising from below the upper end of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebras, the ligamentous band between the occipital bone and the axis (occipito-axoid) will come into view. Union of the occipital bone with the axis. The central ligament (occipito-axoidean) (fig. 48, l) is a strong layer beneath the pos- terior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebras, and is rather triangular in form with the base uppermost. Above it is attached to the basilar process (on the cranial aspect) near the margin of the foramen magnum, extending as far on each side as the insertion of the check ligaments. From that spot it descends over the odontoid process, and, becoming narrower, is inserted into the body of the axis. Occasionally a bursa is found between it and the transverse ligament of the atlas. Dissection (fig. 49). After the removal of the occipito-axoidean 1 ligament, by cutting transversely through it above, and reflecting it, the student should define a strong band, the transverse ligament, Fig. 49.* which crosses the root of the odontoid process, and sends upwards and downwards a slip to the occipital bone and the axis. The upper offset from the transverse ligament may be cut through afterwards for the purpose of seeing the check ligaments which diverge, one on each side, from the odontoid process. Two lateral The lateral odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 49, l) are two strong laments, bundles of fibres, attached by one end to the side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a depression on the inner surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the occipito-axoidean band ; their upper fibres are short and almost horizontal, and the lower are longer and oblique. * Internal ligaments between the occipital bone and the atlas and axis (Bourgery). 1. The left check ligament. 2. The transverse ligament, sending offsets upwards and downwards. 3. Cut end of the occipito-axoidean ligament.