315 RADIO-ULNAR JOINTS. inwards towards the ulna, though a few on the posterior surface this is deft- have an opposite direction. Superiorly the membrane is wanting for cient above- a considerable space, and through the interval the posterior inter- osseous vessels pass backwards. Some small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels ; and the largest of these (4) is about two inches from the lower end, through which the anterior interosseous Fig. 91.* artery turns to the back of the wrist. The membrane gives at- tachment to the deep muscles. The round ligament (fig. 90, 2) is a slender band above the inter- osseous membrane, whose fibres have a direction opposite to those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the front of the coro- noid process, and by the other to the radius below the tubercle. The ligament divides into two the space above the interosseous mem- brane. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-ulnar articula- The lower tion cannot be well seen till after the examination of the wrist end after* joint (p. 317). Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and back- Kind of wards around the ulna. The forward motion, directing the palm of radius^ °f the hand towards the ground, is called pronation ; and the backward movement, by which the palm of the hand is placed up, is named supination. In pronation the upper end of the bone rotates within the band pronation of the orbicular ligament without shifting its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the ulna. In supination the lower end of the radius turns backwards over supination; the ulna ; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius being external; and the upper end rotates from within out in its circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round a line, internal to motion the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head axis^ an of the bone, and downwards through the centre of a circle of which the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna is a segment (Ward). The upper end of the bone is kept in place by the orbicular liga- ^seen^!iga" ment; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage ; and the shafts are united by the interosseous ligament, which is tightened in supi- nation, and is relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease ; in the one case in fracture * View of the orbicular ligament (a) of the radius, which retains the upper end of the bone against the ulna.