CHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN". Section I. MEMBRANES AND VESSELS. Position of the brain. Three mem- branes. Arachnoid membrane. Parietal part. Visceral part is not close to brain, During the examination of the membranes, vessels, and nerves, the brain is to be placed upside down, resting in the coil of a cloth which supports it evenly. Membranes of the Brain. The coverings of the brain (meninges) are three in number, viz. dura mater, pia mater, and arachnoid membrane. The dura mater is a firm fibrous investment, which separates and supports pieces of the brain, and serves as an endos- teum to the bones. The pia mater is the most internal layer, and is very vascular. And the arachnoid is a thin serous sac, which is situate between the other two. Besides enveloping the brain, these membranes are prolonged on the cord into the spinal canal. Only the cranial part of the two last will be now noticed. For the description of the cranial por- tion of the dura mater, see p. 9. The arachnoid is a thin serous membrane, which lines the inner surface of the dura mater, and is reflected over the pia mater and the brain. Around the vessels and nerves intervening between the skull and the brain, the membrane forms sheaths, which extend a short distance into the several apertures, and become continuous with the parietal or cranial portion. Like other serous membranes, it forms a sac which contains a lubricating moisture ; and it con- sists of a parietal and a visceral part. The parietal part is inseparably united to the inner surface of the dura mater, giving this a smooth and polished surface, and is continued over the pieces of the fibrous membrane projecting between portions of the brain. The visceral part covers the encephalon loosely, especially at the under surface of the brain, and is united to the underlying pia mater by fibrous processes ; beneath it there is a considerable interval (subarachnoid space). On the upper or convex surface of the great brain the membrane passes from one convolution to another, without dipping into the intervening sulci ; though it lines the great median fissure as low as the extent of the falx. On the lower surface of