DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 472 region. Connec- tions. Right highest. Different parts before and above. Pancreas after. seen, the descending colon and the peritoneum must be separated from the abdominal wall, and its casing' of fat should be torn through with the fingers. This viscus is surrounded with fat, and is situate in the lumbar region opposite the last dorsal, and the upper two or three lumbar vertebras. Its position is somewhat oblique, and the upper end is nearer than the lower to the spinal column. In front of the kidney are the peritoneum and the colon ; and behind it are the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, with the diaphragm and the last rib. Above each kidney and resting on it, is the suprarenal capsule. The inner border looks to the spine and receives the vessels. Difference on opposite sides. The right kidney is placed rather lower than the left ; it reaches as high as the lower border of the eleventh rib, whilst its fellow is opposite the upper border of the corresponding rib. In front of the right, besides the common con- nections before specified, is the duodenum ; and before the left one is the lower end of the spleen. Above the right is the liver, and above the left the spleen. The connections of the pancreas may be omitted for the present. This viscus is described at page 484. THE PERITONEUM. Peritoneum This is the largest serous membrane in the body. Like other membranes of the kind it is a closed sac in the male, but in the female its cavity is continuous with the canals of the Fallopian consists of a tubes. One part of it lines the wall of the abdomen (parietal vfs^erai^ayer)' an(^ another is reflected over the different viscera (visceral layer, layer) except where the vessels enter. The inner surface is smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from the and forms parts with which it is naturally in contact. The membrane forms vessel^ processes or folds as it passes from viscus to viscus along the vessels ; and the folds attaching the viscera to the abdominal wall consist for the most part of two layers, one on each side of the vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced in a horizontal and a vertical direction. Circle of the Horizontal circle around the abdomen. The membrane, when fol- opposite lowed outwards from the umbilicus, surrounds partly the large umbilicus, intestine on the left side, and fixes it to the abdominal wall. From the colon it may be traced over the kidney as far as the middle line, where it is reflected along the front of the vessels supplying the small intestine, thence around the intestine, and back to the spine along the same vessels. Lastly, it may be pursued outwards to the right kidney, to the colon which it encircles like the left, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. The piece of membrane fixing the colon on each side to the abdominal wall, is named meso-colon ; and that attaching the small intestine is the mesentery.