VEINS OF THE PELVIS. 565 The middle sacral artery of the aorta (p. 533), (fig. 174, b) de- Middle seen els alono; the middle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, sa.e™l» ° which lifts and the coccyx. The artery gives small branches laterally, oppo- lateral site each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral offsets, arteries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the perio- steum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to take the place of the middle hemorrhoidal artery. The internal iliac vein receives the blood from the wall of the internal pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches corresponding for the positioTto most part with those of the arteries. The vein is a short thick its artery: trunk, which is situate at first on the inner side of the internal iliac artery ; but as it ascends to join the external iliac, it passes behind, and to the outer aspect of its companion artery on the right side. Brandies. Most of the branches entering the trunk of the internal its branches iliac vein, have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the follow- peculiar are ing visceral branches,—the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and hemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic vein receives roots corresponding with the branches of pudic, the pudic artery in the perineum (p. 431), but not those corre- sponding with the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis (p. 441) receives veins from the dorsal vein corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum of the penis, and piercing of penis, the triangular ligament of the urethra, divides into two, a right and a left branch, which enter a plexus around the prostate. The middle hemorrhoidal vein communicates with a large plexus hfemorrhoi- (hemorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum beneath the dal> mucous membrane (p. 583). The vesical veins begin in a plexus about the fundus of the vesical, bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hemorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the uterine, and side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates above with the ovarian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. The vaginal veins surround their tube with a large vascular vaginal plexus (p. 587). verns- Parietal veins of the pelvis. Three veins of the wall of the pelvis, Parietal viz., ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and middle sacral, open into the vems- common iliac vein. Dissection (fig. 175). To dissect the nerves of the pelvis, on the Dissection of right side, it will be necessary to detach the triangular ligament *f thepelvis. with the urethra from the arch of the pubes ; and to cut through, on the right side, the recto-vesical fascia and the levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn somewhat from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended let the air escape from it. By means of the foregoing dissection the sacral nerves may be 2^four found as they issue from the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, and some branches from