626 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and below from inner vastus. Vastus externus is thin at the origin; but is thicker "below. Parts in contact with the surfaces. Vastus in- ternus and crureus. One mass. Its origin : insertion by a common tendon. Upper part deep, lower superficial. Lay bare common tendon of the exten- sor. Tendon of the exten- sor : attach- ments, To make the lower separation of the two, look to the outer aspect of the thigh about half way down, where the vertical fibres of the vastus externus cross others (deeper) of the inner vastus, which pass obliquely inwards : sink here the handle of the scalpel between these till it meets the line of division above. The vastus externus has a very narrow attachment to the femur in comparison with its size. It takes origin along the upper half of the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch thick, which is attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter; to the line connect- ing the trochanter with the linea aspera ; and to the upper half of the linea aspera, and the contiguous external intermuscular septum. Inferiorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis which blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus internus in the common tendon, and sends a slip to the outer edge of the patella. The muscle is pointed at the upper end ; but enlarged below where it produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is covered by the rectus, tensor vaginae femoris, and gluteus muscles. The deep sur- face rests on the vastus internus, and receives branches of the ex- ternal circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The vastus internus (fig. 194, E) forms the large head of the extensor.* The fleshy mass arises from the anterior and two lateral surfaces of the shaft of the femur, except where the vastus externus is attached, and its limits may be thus indicated :—Upwards it reaches as far as the anterior intertrochanteric line ; downwards, in the middle, to about two inches from the articular end of the femur ; and laterally to both intermuscular septa. At the lower end of the muscle the fibres terminate in an aponeurosis, which blends in the common tendon of insertion, and is attached to the patella lower than the vastus externus. The muscular mass is buried above beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles ; but the lower part is superficial, and projects more than the vastus externus : some of the lowest fibres are almost transverse, and will be able to draw inwards the patella. The adductor muscles are almost inseparably joined with this vastus along the attachment to the linea aspera. Dissection. The tendon of the extensor will appear by dividing along the middle line of the patella and knee joint a thin aponeu- rotic layer, which is derived from the lower fleshy fibres of the muscle, and covers the joint. On reflecting inwards and outwards that fibrous layer the tendon will be laid bare to its insertion into the tibia. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg is common to the rectus, the vastus externus, and vastus internus. It is placed in front of the knee joint, to which it serves the office of an anterior ligament. Wide above where the muscular fibres terminate, it * Sometimes the part of the mass, inside a line continued upwards from the inner border of the patella, is named crureus : naturally there is not any separation at that spot.