ENDING OF THOEACIC DUCT. 117 The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the aorta, Left instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends thence over the ^^vian first rib in its course to the upper limb. ^Vith this difference on the differs much two sides in the origin of the subclavian,—the one vessel beginning ^J^^ opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, the^ther in the thorax, —it is evident that the length and connections of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus must vary much on opposite First part. The part of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus in the first is much longer on the left than the right side, and is almost vertical part' in direction, instead of being horizontal like its fellow. After leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the oesophagus, and does not rise usually so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between the artery and the surface are structures like those on Connections the right side, viz. the common teguments with the platysma and Ending deep fascia, and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. Parts- Behind the vessel is the longus colli muscle. To the inner side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct ; and the pleura is in contact with the outer and anterior surfaces. Its connections lower in the chest are described in the dissection of the thorax. Veins. The internal jugular vein is superficial to the artery and Veins, parallel to it. Nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve lies parallel to the vessel instead Position of of across it as on the right side ; and the phrenic nerve crosses over nerves- it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, which course along its inner side to the chest; and beneath it is the inferior cervical ganglion. The second and third parts of the artery, viz. beneath and beyond Rest of the scalenus, are nearly the same as on the right side (p. 68) ; but artery- the student must note for himself the slight variations that may exist in the connections. The branches of this artery resemble so closely those of the right Branches trunk, that one description will serve for both (p. 69 to 71). It J£os?o? may be remarked, that the superior intercostal of the left side is right vessel, usually internal to, instead of beneath the scalenus as on the right side ; in other words, this branch arises sooner. The thoracic duct (fig. 27, 8) conveys the chyle and lymph of the Thoraeic greater part of the body into the venous circulation. Escaping from duct the thorax on the oesophagus, the duct ascends in the neck as high ^^thorax1 as the seventh or sixth cervical vertebra. At the spot mentioned it issues from beneath the carotid trunk, and arches outwards above or over the subclavian artery, and in front of the scalenus muscle and joins and the phrenic nerve, to open into the subclavian close to the union vein^ with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the valves, veins, are present in the interior of the tube ; and a pair guards the opening into the posterior part of the vein, to prevent the passage of the blood into it. Frequently the upper part of the duct is divided ; and there may be separate openings into the large vein, correspond- ing with those divisions.