SPECIAL PARTS IN TYMPANUM. 743 between the meatus auditorius and the cavity of the tympanum, tympani; It measures one third of an inch across, is oval in form, and is f^tm tlie attached by its circumference to a groove at the inner end of the auditory passage. In the fetus it is fitted into a separate osseous and the ring, the tympanic bone. The membrane is placed very obliquely ge.t^tion. so that it forms with the floor of the meatus an angle of 45 degrees, and the outer surface is directed downwards. Towards the auditory surfaces, canal the surface is concave ; but in the tympanum it is convex, and attached to its upper half is the handle of the malleus (&),— one of the ossicles. Structure. The membrane is formed of three strata,—external, ^^scf°^d internal, and middle. The outer one is continuous with the integu- iar> epithe- ments of the meatus auditorius ; and the lia1'and inner is derived from the mucous membrane Fig- 238.* of the tympanum. The middle layer is formed of white and yellow fibrous tissues, and is fixed to the groove in the bone. From its centre, where it is connected with the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circumference ; and near the margin, at the inner surface, lies a band of stronger circular fibres (fig. 238, c), which bridges across the notch at the upper part of the tympanic bone. The Eustachian tube (fig. 236, e) is the channel through which Eustachian the tympanic cavity communicates with the fauces. It is about an tube lias inch and a half in length, and is directed downwards and inwards to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and an osseous is narrowed at the middle. Its course in the temporal bone is along part'. the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, outside the passage for the carotid artery. Externally it ends in a dilated andtermi- and somewhat oval opening, with an irregular margin, which gives natl0n • attachment to the cartilage. The cartilaginous piece of the tube is nearly an inch in length, cartilagi- and extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx nons part" (p. 126). Through this tube the mucous membrane of the drum of the ear use of the is continuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it the mucus tube- escapes. The secondary membrane of the tympanum is placed within the Membrane fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, j^imS*?* but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite eonstruc- side of the cavity, viz. an external or mucous, derived from the tlon * Inner view of the membrana tympani in the fetus with the malleus attached, a. Membrane or drum of the tympanum, b. Malleus, c. Band of circular fibres at the circumference, d. Inferior, and e, superior tympanic artery. /. Tympanic bone.