539 QUADRATUS LUMBOKUM MUSCLE. Action. The iliacns flexes the liip-joint with the psoas when the Use to bend femur is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the limb is ^ fixed. In consequence of its union with the psoas, the two are described as the flexor of the hip-joint by Theile. The quadratus lumborum (fig. 169, G) is a short thick muscle Quadratus between the crest of the hip-bone and the last rib. About two lumboium* inches wide inferiorly, it arises from the ilio-vertebral ligament, and from the iliac crest of the hip-bone behind, and an inch outside that band. The fibres ascend to be inserted by distinct fleshy and insertion, tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the four upper, or all the lumbar vertebrae ; and into the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. • This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia lum- It is con- borum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, a^heath. together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Beneath the quadratus is the mass of the erector spinas muscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the spine (one muscle antago- Use of both nising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more mnscleb» complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterally the lumbar region of the spine of one. to the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the quadratus. Covering the surface of the quadratus Fascia of the is a thin membrane, which is derived from the hinder aponeurosis (luadxatus* of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum, p. 385) ; it passes in front of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. This fascia forms the thickened band called ligamentum arcuatum externum, to which the diaphragm is connected (p. 531). Fascia of the iliacus and psoas. A fascia covers the two flexor iliac fascia muscles of the hip-joint, and extends in different directions as far as their attachments. Over the iliacus muscle the membrane is joined by thickest : and a strong accession is received from the tendon of tend"n ot ' & small psoas. the small psoas. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the Attach. part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been ments before explained (p. 4G4). below, Opposite the pelvis the membrane is inserted into the brim of internally that cavity for a short distance, and into the hip bone along the to Pelvis edge of the psoas. Opposite the spinal column it becomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebrae and the liga- and the mentum arcuatum internum, but is blended, on the other, with the vertel)lu'- fascia on the quadratus. The fascia should be divided over the psoas on the left side, and reflected towards the brim of the pelvis. Dissection. The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands Trace the lying along the vertebrae, and to trace upwards some lymphatic 1ymPhatlcs» vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides ; a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The