TRANSVERSE TARSAL ARTICULATION. 713 A simple synovial membrane belongs to the articulation. Synovial Articular surfaces. Both bones are flattened towards the outer sac- part of the articulation ; but at the inner side the os calcis is ^JJj^ces of hollowed from above down, and the os cuboides is convex to fit into it. Movement. In this joint the cuboid bone possesses two movements, Movement: viz. an oblique one, down and in, and up and out. In the downward movement the internal lateral and the upper state of ligament are made tight; and in the upward, the calcaneo-cuboid 1& ligaments of the sole are stretched. Tkansverse TARSAL ARTICULATION (fig. 221). The joints of the Transverse astragalus with the scaphoid, and os calcis with the cuboid bone, tarsus, form a transverse articulation across the foot in which the move- ments of inversion and eversion take place. In inversion the great toe is adducted ; the inner border of the Inversion,, foot is shortened, and is raised from the ground so that the sole looks inwards. The scaphoid bone passes, down and in over the head of the JJ0^^|nt astragalus, being approximated near to the inner malleolus ; and the cuboid bone moves down and in on the os calcis. The cunei- form bones are raised at the same time and contribute to the movement of inversion (p. 715). The ligaments connected with both joints on the dorsum of the state of foot are tightened. ligaments.. In eversion the inner border of the foot descends and lengthens, Eversion: the outer border is raised, and the great toe is abducted from the middle line of the body. The same two tarsal bones are directed up and out, and the bones and cuneiforms sink. The ligaments in the sole of the foot of both joints now come ligaments, into use to prevent over movement. Dissection. Saw through the astragalus in front of the attachment Dissection, of the interosseous ligament between it and the os calcis, and remove the head of the bone for the purpose of observing the lower and outer calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. Then the interosseous ligament uniting the astragalus and the os calcis is to be cut through, to demonstrate its attachments, the articular surfaces of the bones, and the synovial sacs (p. 710). Articular surfaces of the two hinder tarsal bones. There are two Surfaces of articular surfaces, anterior and posterior, to both the astragalus and os calcis the os calcis. The hinder one of the os calcis is convex trans- versely and the anterior is concave ; but sometimes the last is subdivided into two. The surfaces of the astragalus will have a and astra- f orm exactly the reverse of that of the os calcis, viz. the hinder one concave and the anterior convex ; the anterior is seated on the head of the astragalus. Dissection. The calcaneo-cuboid joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces : and the student is to keep in mind that all the other articulations of the foot are to be opened for the like purpose, even should directions not be given.