498 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN". the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 on the same surface (Krause). of vYn°usti0n Eacl1 villus *s an extension of the mucous coat, and is covered by artery and co^umnar epithelium. One or sometimes two arterial twigs form a vein, capillary network beneath the mucous covering (fig. 149, A), and lacteals, end generally in a single emerging vein. A single lacteal, or two forming a loop with cross branches (fig. 149, B), occupies the centre, and communicates with a plexus below the villus. Around the Fig. 149.* A B muscular layer. ♦Several kinds of glands. Simple tubes as in the stomach, but not so close ; their size, and contents. Solitary follicles ; size and situation. lacteals a thin layer of unstriated muscular fibre is arranged longi- tudinally (Briicke). Nerves have not been detected in the villus. Glands. In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine are included the crypts of Lieberkiihn, solitary glands, and Peyer's and Brunner's glands. The crypts of Lieberkiihn (fig. 152, a) are minute simple tubes, similar to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggregated, which exist throughout the small intestine. They open on the surface of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands ; they are closed at the opposite end, where they project into the submucous layer, and are seldom branched. Their length is from -^th to -^-th of an inch ; they are filled with a translucent fluid containing granules, and are lined by a columnar epithelium. The so-called solitary glands (fig. 151, B) are roundish white eminences, about the size of mustard seed if distended, which are scattered along the small intestine, but in greatest number in the * a. Vessels of the villi in the mouse, injected by Gerlach (Kolliker). a. Artery, and b, vein. b. Lacteals and plexus of vessels in two villi, injected by Teichman. a. Lacteal vessel, single in one villus, double in the other. b. Plexus of vessels, c. Plexus of lacteals below the villi. (Quain's Anatomy.)