483 DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Dissection. To see satisfactorily the duodenum and the pancreas Remove the intestinal tube, beyond the duodenum, is to be removed in the mtestine following way :—a double ligature is to be placed on the upper part of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through between the pieces of string where it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube is to be taken away by cutting through the vessels, and the peritoneum connecting it to the wall of the abdomen. After it has been separated, it is to be set aside for future study whilst the body is turned. The student should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum to see the from the cut extremity of the latter, and remove the loose peritoneum duodenum> and the fat ; whilst cleaning them, he should lay bare the larger vessels and nerves. On turning upwards the stomach the pancreas may be traced and pan- from the spleen on the one hand to the duodenum on the other creas' (fig. 143). By pulling forwards the duodenum, the common bile Wlth duct' duct may be found, posteriorly, between the intestine and the head of the pancreas ; and some of the pancreas may be removed, to show its duct entering the duodenum. Duodenum (fig. 143, d). The first part of the small intestine, or Extent of the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the stomach, and crossing duodenum > the spinal column, ends on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It makes a curve around the head of the pancreas, and occupies the right hypochondriac, right lumbar, and umbilical course and regions of the abdomen. From its winding course around the pancreas it is divided into three portions—superior transverse, Division, vertical, and inferior transverse. The superior transverse part is free and moveable, like the First part is stomach ; it measures about two inches in length, and is directed fndisSt' from the pylorus to the neck of the gall bladder, ascending slightly moveable, between the one point and the other. In front it is overlapped by the liver, as well as by the gall bladder when this is distended; and behind it are the bile duct and the vena portaa. The vertical part is fixed almost immoveably by the peritoneum Second part and the pancreas. It is nearly three inches in length, and descends 1S fixed' from the gall bladder as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Super- ficial to it is the right bend of the colon ; and beneath it are the and rests on kidney and vessels. On its inner side is the head of the pancreas, the kldney- with the common bile-duct. The ducts of the liver and pancreas open into this portion of the duodenum. The inferior transverse part is the longest of the three, and is The third continued across the spinal column to end in the jejunal portion of l^nge^tfand the small intestine. As it crosses the spine, it ascends from the ^j^?ve" third to the level of the second lumbar vertebra, and lies between the layers of the transverse meso-colon. It has the following con- nections with things around :— I i 2