703 INTRA CAPSULAR LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. of the tibia by the flexors or by force; and it is stretched in extreme flexion, in which the tibia is being drawn back from the femur. This use will be exemplified by cutting across the posterior (in another joint or in another dissection) and leaving entire the ante- rior ; when this has been done the articular surfaces of the tibia can be carried nearly altogether behind the condyles of the femur. The two interarticular or semilunar fibro-cartilages (fig. 218) cover ^tiia^es1 partly on each side the articular surface of the tibia. are two. They are thick at the outer margin, where they are united by Common fibres to the capsule, and are thin at the inner edge ; they are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in giving depth Fig. 218.* to the fossas for the reception of the condyles of the femur, but are flattened below. In- serted into the tibia at their extremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attachment to the bone, like the crucial liga- ments ; and they become car- tilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is re- flected over them. The internal cartilage (a) is Internal is ovoid in form, and is a segment of a larger circle than the external. 0V0ld- In front it is attached by a pointed end to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial ligament. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. The external cartilage (b) is nearly circular in form, and is con- External nected to the bone within the points of attachment of its fellow. cutaMn11' Its anterior part is fixed in front of the spine of the tibia, close to form: the outer articular surface, and opposite the anterior crucial ligament which it touches; and its posterior extremity is inserted behind and between the two osseous points of the spine. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the fore part is in the centre of the joint, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. The outer fibro-cartilage is provided with two accessory bands, one before, the other behind. The anterior or transverse ligament (c) is a narrow band of fibres ^esr^a^ between the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Some- times it is scarcely perceptible. The posterior or ascending band (d), thicker and stronger than the posterior * View of the head of the tibia with the fibro-cartilages attached : the crucial ligaments have been cut through, a. Inner, and 6, outer semilunar fibro-cartilage. c. Transverse, and d, ascending or posterior band (cut) of the external cartilage, e. Posterior, and /, anterior crucial ligament.