STRUCTURE OF CORNEA. 725 its transparency is destroyed by disturbance of the position of the strata. The tissue when boiled gives chondrin. Between the corneal layers are flattened irregular spaces, which Corneal join freely with one another ', and these intervals are occupied by a^(| ceils, nucleated stellate cells, called corneal corpuscles. In the healthy condition bloodvessels do not permeate it, but Has not cease in capillary loops at the circumference. Nerves ramify in it, seis° "ves" after losing their opacity at the circumference : they are said to Nerves, form a subepithelial plexus on the anterior surface, from which varicose fibrils are prolonged amongst the pieces of the epithelium. The membrane at the back of the cornea (fig. 226)—membrane Layer be- of Demours—consists of a basement layer covered by epithelium. hmd corll( The basement layer, e (posterior elastic lamina, Bowman), may be Basement peeled off after a cut has been made across the cornea. It is dense, layer; hard and elastic, measuring -^J^-th to g-^oth of an inch in thick- ness ; it is very brittle, tearing readily when an attempt is made to separate it, and curls up when it is free, with the attached surface innermost. Though very elastic, the struc- ture is destitute of fibres. It is always transparent, and remains so after boiling, after the action of acids, and even after maceration. At the edge of the cornea this lamina breaks up into processes (" pillars of the iris ") which blend with the outer margin of the iris, and with the sclerotic and choroid coats. A luminar epithelium, G, like that on serous membranes, clothes its free surface (fig. 226). The conjunctiva in front of the cornea (fig. 226) consists chiefly of epithelium cells, though there is a subjacent basement-like stratum. The basement layer, B (ant. elastic lamina, Bowman), is transparent, and only from 2""oVo^n t° iwo^h °^ an mcn "thick. It seems to be a somewhat hardened piece of the cornea, without corneal spaces and cor- puscles. From it fine threads are prolonged into the proper corneal layers, as in the woodcut. The epithelium, d, is formed of three or four layers of scales, the ^an^epi- deeper being columnar, but the superficial laminar in form. Vascular Coat of the Eyeball (fig. 229). The next covering is choroid coat situate within the sclerotic, and is formed chiefly of blood-vessels is vascular- * Vertical section a of the cornea.—b. Basement layer of cornea, with d, the conjunctival epithelium on it. c. Oblique fibres from it to the layers of the cornea, e. Basement lamina, with f, epithelium on it of the mem- brane of Demours. g. Surface view of the epithelium of the membrane of Demours.