746 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. muscles to transversely striated fibres are connected with the chain of the ossicles. kones • two of these are attached to the malleus, the other to the Tensor tym- pani. Origin. Insertion. Use. Laxator tympani. Origin. Insertion. Use. Stapedius attached to stapes. Use. Lining of tympanum. The tensor tympani (fig. 240, 7i, internal muscle of the malleus) is the largest and most distinct of the muscles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of its containing tube, which must be laid open to see it completely. The muscle arises from the surface of its bony canal, also slightly in front from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon which is reflected over the end of the cochleariform process, Fig. 240.* and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the mal- leus near its base. Action. The muscle draws in- wards the handle of the malleus towards the inner Avail of the tympanic cavity, and tightens the membrane of the tympanum; and as the long process of the incus is moA^ed inwards with the malleus the base of the stapes will be pressed into the fenestra OA^alis. Laxator tympani (fig. 240, g, external muscle of the malleus). It is connected externally with the spinous process of the sphe- noid bone ; and passing through the Glaserian fissure, it is at- tached to the neck of the malleus above the processus gracilis. Action. The muscle draws imvards and forwards the upper end of the malleus, and tilts outAvards the handle, so as to relax the membrana tympani ; and on the cessation of the contraction of the tensor, it can moA^e out the bony chain. The stapedius (fig. 240, i) is lodged in the canal hollowed in the interior of the pyramid. Arising inside the tube, the muscle ends in a small tendon, Avhich issues from the pyramid, and is inserted into the back of the neck of the stapes. Action. By directing the neck of the stapes backwards the muscle raises the fore part of the base out of the fenestra ovalis, diminish- ing the pressure on the fluid in the vestibule; and supposing it to contract simultaneously Avith the tensor, it Avould preA^ent the sudden jar of the stapes on that fluid. Mucous membrane of the tympanum. The mucous lining of the tympanic caA^ity adheres closely to the Avail; it is continuous with * Plan of the ossicles in position in the tympanum with their muscles. a. Cavity of the tympanum, b. Membrana tympani. c. Eustachian tube. d. Malleus, c. Incus. /. Stapas. g. Laxator tympani muscle, h. Tensor tympani. i. Stapedius.