104 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending pharyn- geal artery will be met with. in the tem- To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to follow porai bone. ^ contained artery into the cranium, make a cut along the side of the skull in the following manner :—the saw being placed beneath the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the wing of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be directed through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone forceps. Nerves on it. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it; and in a fresh part two small filaments may be recognised with care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other from the vidian nerve, at the front of the canal. Tympanum On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may prepare very readily the tympanum with its membrane and chain of bones, and the chorda tympani nerve. Internal The internal carotid artery (fig. 25, d) springs from the bifurcation carotid Q£ common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper border of enters the the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches Its course is f0r the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided into three portions :—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third in the cranium. through the Cervical part. In the neck the artery ascends almost vertically from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in contact with the pharynx on the inner side. The line of the common carotid artery would mark its position in the neck. Its depth from the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the digastric muscle less deep may be taken as the index of this difference. Thus, below that below, muscle, the internal carotid is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid and covered by the common teguments, fascia, and the platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though farther back. deepVabove- "^u*' a^ove ^hat muscle5 the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Whilst in rests on the neck the internal corotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major rec us. muscle, which separates it from the vertebrae. ve°inti0n °f Vein. The internal jugular vein accompanies the artery, being contained in a sheath with it, and placed on the outer side. of vessels, Small vessels. Below the digastric muscle the occipital artery is directed back over the carotid ; and the offset from it to the sterno-mastoideus may run down on the carotid trunk. Above the digastric the posterior auricular vessels cross the carotid. of nerves. Nerves. The pneumogastric is contained in the sheath between