611 STRUCTURE OF LIVER. the proper secreting substance, and can be seen either on the exterior of the liver, on a cut surface, or by means of a rent in the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of a pin's head, and measure from -^th to y^-th of an inch in diameter. Closely massed together they possess a dark central point ; and there are indications of lines of separation between them, though they communicate by vessels. By means of transverse and ver- tical sections of the lobules, their form will appear flattened on the exterior, but many sided in the interior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest divisions of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre, something like the union of the stalk with the body of a small fruit. To study the minute structure of the lobules, a microscope will be necessary ; and the different vessels of the liver should be minutely injected. Constituents of the lobules. Each lobule is composed of minute hepatic cells, which are arranged web-like amongst the ducts and vessels ; and it is provided with a capillary network of vessels, ^7* and with a plexus of the bile duct. Cells of the lobules. The hepatic or biliary cells (fig. 157, a) form the chief part of the lobule; they are irregular in form, being rounded or many sided, and pos- sess a bright nucleus, or even more than one. In size they vary from _th to ^th of an inch. They are of a yellow- ish colour, and enclose granular particles, together with fat and yellow colouring matter. These nucleated cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows radiating from the centre, with spaces (b) between them for the bloodvessels and ducts. The cells are concerned in the secretion of the bile. Vessels of the lobule (fig. 158, b). The smallest branches of the vena porta, after uniting in a circle around the lobule, where they are named interlobular («), enter its substance, and form therein a network of capillaries (c) near the circumference. A small branch of the hepatic vein (d) occupies the centre of the lobule ; its radicles communicate with the portal network, and it issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein. The radicles of the bile duct (fig. 158, a) begin within the lobule in a fine intralobular plexus of ducts (g) between the hepatic size and appearance ; Position to veins. A lobule is a distinct gland. size, and contents; arrange- ment. Its vessels, viz. vena porta1., hepatic vein, and bile duct: * A magnified representation of the hepatic cells with their arrangement in the lobule, a. Cells, b. Intercellular space (Henle).