TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE. 383 and lastly from the inner third of the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed out- wards, converging to the shoulder, and are inserted into the outer insertion, third of the clavicle, at its posterior aspect ; into the posterior border of the acromion ; and into the upper edge of the spine of the scapula as far as an inch from the root of that process, as well as into a rough impression on the surface of the spine near the hinder part. The muscle is subcutaneous. At the outer side the lowest fleshy Connec- fibres end in a small triangular tendon, which glides over the tlons* smooth surface of the root of the spine of the scapula. The an- terior border bounds behind the posterior triangular space of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds with the origin of the deltoid muscle. Action. If all the fibres of the muscle act, the scapula gliding on Use: the ribs is moved upwards and towards the spinal column ; but the Moveable upper fibres can assist other muscles in elevating, and the lower fibres will help in depressing that bone. When the scapula is prevented from gliding on the ribs, the trape- in rotation zius imparts a rotatory movement to it, and raises the acromion. of "bone. Dissection. The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided near the Trace spinal scapula, over the situation of the spinal accessory nerve, so that accessory- the ramifications of that nerve in the muscle, and its junction with the branches of the cervical plexus may be observed. A small artery to the trapezius (art. superficialis colli) accompanies the nerve. The spinal accessory cranial nerve (p. 112) having crossed the pos- Spinal terior triangle of the neck, passes beneath the trapezius, and forms nerveSir7 a plexiform union with branches of the third and fourth,nerves of trapezius, the cervical plexus. The nerve is distributed nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Dissection. To see the parts covered by the trapezius, the pieces Dissection of the divided muscle are to be thrown inwards and outwards. trapezius • The dissector of the neck should now clean the splenius, and to prepare define the things beneath the clavicle, viz. the posterior belly of the parts in the omo-hyoid muscle with the suprascapular nerve and vessels ; the transverse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulae and rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached along the middle line, the ligamentum nuchse, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. 0 The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of the clean the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulse muscles, which are fixed to ^g^1 the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being done, the scapula is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fleshy fibres. * Parts covered by the trapezius. The trapezius conceals in the Parts neck the splenius, a small part of the complexus, and the levator trapezius^ anguli scapulas ; in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles, —the rhomboidei, the erector spinse, and the latissimus dorsi. Near the insertion it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The ligamentum nuchce is a narrow fibrous band, which extends Ligamen- tum nuchje.