DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 296 Attach- ments. Is the most superficial. Use. Dissection. Opponens fixed to metacarpal hone, "beneath former. Use. Flexor hrevis. Origin : is inserted by two parts. It is deep the hand. Use. Adductor joins short flexor. Connec- tions. ligament at the radial side, and from the riclge of the os trapezium ; and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. The muscle is subcutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis : it is connected oftentimes at its origin with a slip from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Action. It removes the metacarpal bone of the thumb from the other digits ; and when it has so acted it may assist slightly the short flexor in bending the metacarpophalangeal joint. Dissection. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting through the abductor. To separate the muscle from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the fore part of the meta- carpal bone, where there is usually a slight interval. The opponens pollicis, B, arises from the annular ligament beneath the preceding, and from the os trapezium and its ridge ; it is inserted into the front and the outer border of the metacarpal bone for the whole length. This muscle is partly concealed by the preceding, though it pro- jects on the outer side. Along its inner border is the flexor brevis pollicis. An insertion into the external sesamoid bone is described by Theile. Action. From its attachment to the metacarpal bone it is able to ■ draw that bone inwards over the palm of the hand, turning it at the same time, so as to allow the ball of the thumb to be applied to the ball of each of the fingers, as in picking up a pin. The flexor brevis pollicis, c, is the largest of the short muscles of the thumb ; it consists of two pieces (inner and outer) at the insertion, but these are united at the origin. Posteriorly it arises: from the os trapezoides and os magnum ; from the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones ; and from the annular ligament, at the lower part. In front it is inserted by two heads into the ' sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb,—the inner piece being united with the adductor, and the outer with the abductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is connected with each head at its insertion. The tendon of the long flexor lies on this muscle, occupying the interval between the processes at the insertion ; and the deep palmar arch of the radial artery issues beneath the inner head. Action. The muscle bends the metacarpophalangeal joint, and assists the opponens in drawing the thumb forwards and inwards over the palm. The adductor pollicis D, is pointed at the thumb, and wide at the opposite end. Its origin is fixed to the anterior or lower two- thirds of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit, on the palmar aspect; and its insertion is attached, with that of the short flexor,, to the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb. The cutaneous surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the deep surface lies over (in this position) the first dorsal interosseous muscle, Jr and the second and third metacarpal bones with the intervening muscle.