LIGAMENTS OF PELVIC BOXES. 595 The muscle is in contact by one surface with the wall of the part of pelvis and the obturator membrane ; by the other surface with the JJJ1^6^ pelvic fascia, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels cavity, and nerve. Action. The muscle draws the trochanter towards the back of the Use as ■ hip-bone over which it bends, and rotates out the hip-joint. For rotator, further notice of its use, see p. 648. Coccygeus Muscle. The position and the connections of this Coccygeus muscle may be studied with advantage in the interior of the pelvis. muscle* The muscle is described at p. 547. LIGAMENTS OF THE TELVIS. ie bones of the pel- th vis :—The several pieces of the sacrum and coccyx are united with lations. one another. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at its apex to the coccyx, and laterally to the two innomi- nate bones. And the innominate bones are connected together in front, as well as to the sacrum and the spinal column posteriorly. Union of Pieces of Sacrum and Coccyx. Whilst the pieces of the sacrum and coccyx remain moveable they are articulated as in Ligaments the other vertebrae by an anterior and posterior common ligament, separate,' with a disc of intervertebral substance for the bodies ; and by other ligaments for the neural arch and processes (p. 372). After the sacral vertebras have coalesced, only rudiments of the and joined, ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised ; but when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, those ligaments disappear in the adult male. SACRO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATION. The base of the sacrum is articil- Sacrum • iiiii t • with last lated with the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to those vertebra, uniting one vertebra to another (p. 373) ; and by one special liga- ment—the sacro-vertebral. Dissection. For the best manner of bringing these different liga- Dissection, ments into view, the dissector may consult the directions given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebrae (p. 372). The common ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an By liga- anterior and a posterior, with an intervening fibro-cartilaginous jjfthe ver- substance. Between the neural arches lie the ligamenta subflava ; tebrae, and between the spines the supra and interspinous bands are situate. The articular processes are united by capsular ligaments with syno- vial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a rather strong bundle of fibres, and by SDecial which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse band, sacrc- process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral mass at the base vertebral, of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the articulation between the sacrum and the inno- minate bone. Sacro-coccygeal Articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are united Ullion of T J sacrum and at the centre by a fibro-cartilage, and by an anterior and posterior coccyx. Q Q 2