262 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Ligaments of scapula. Posterior and anterior ; this is formed of two pieces. Use. Dissection. Supraspina- tus ; origin is inserted into hume- rus. Connec- tions. Use. Dissection of supra- scapular vessels. Supra - the acromion is elevated the surface moves in exactly the opposite way. Scapular Ligaments. The special ligaments of the scapula are two in number, anterior and posterior, and extend from one point of the bone to another. The posterior ligament (4) is a narrow fasciculus of fibres stretching across the notch in the upper costa of the scapula. By one end it is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the costa behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes. The anterior or cor aco-acromial ligament (3) is triangular in formr and extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its point or apex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the capsule of the shoulder joint. The ligament consists usually of two thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thin intervening part. It forms part of an arch above the shoulder joint, which stops the ascent of the head of the humerus. Dissection. To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion process is to be sawn through, and to be turned aside with the outer end of the clavicle ; but in a repetition of the dissection of the upper limb, the bone may be left uncut for the purpose of seeing the use of the coraco-acromial arch. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle ; this is to be taken away after it has been observed. The supraspinatus muscle (fig. 74, A) has the same form as the hollow of the bone it fills. It arises from the surface of the supra- spinal fossa of the scapula, except from the cervical part ; from the upper side of the spine of the bone ; and from the fascia covering the surface. Its fibres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder joint, and is inserted into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the acromion process ; and it rests upon the scapula," the shoulder joint, and the suprascapular vessels and nerve. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the humerus. Action. It comes into use with the deltoid in raising the limb, and supporting the joint. Dissection (fig. 79). The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of the scapula can be traced by detaching from behind forwards the supra and infraspinatus muscles, so as to leave a thin layer of the fleshy fibres with the ramifying blood-vessels on the surface of the bone. In the supraspinal fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the intraspinal fossa ; and entering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anas- tomosis between those vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The suprascapular artery (a) is derived from the subclavian