381 SUPEEFICIAL NERVES. as a general rule, there is one opposite each vertebra except in the neck. To find them in the cervical region look near the middle line, in the neck, from the 3rd to the 6th vertebra, and trace an offset from the third nerve upwards to the head : the branch of the second nerve (large occipital) has been laid bare at the back of the head (p. 5). Opposite the upper part of the thorax, they will be best found near the spines of the vertebras, where they lie at first beneath the in thorax fat; but at the- lower part, and in the loins, they issue in a line ancl loms' with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves are included in the Sacral: dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegumentary nerves are derived from Cutaneous the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves, which sub- derived!^ divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and outer. Arteries accompanying the greater number of the nerves, bifurcate like them, and furnish cutaneous offsets. Cervical nerves. In the neck the nerves are derived from the inner in the neck. diC£*>*«K^ of the two pieces into which the posterior trunks bifurcate : they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the source, head. They are four in number, viz., one from each, except the first and the three last. The branch of the second nerve is named large occipital, and ac- Second companies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 8). The branch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset and third to the neck, and then ascends to the lower part of the head, where nerve- it is distributed near the middle line, uniting with the great occipital nerve (p. 8). * Dorsal nerves. These are obtained from both the inner and outer in the dor- pieces—the upper six from the inner, and the lower six from the sa reglon outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. The upper six perforate the trapezius near the spines of the Upper six, vertebras ; and the branch of the second, which is larger than thef rest, reaches as far as the scapula. The lower six pierce the latis-^Lwer Six. simus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs ; they are oftentimes uncertain in number. ° Lumbar nerves. In the loins the nerves are derived from the in the loins, outer pieces of the first three ; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle at the outer border of the erector spinas, and crossing the iliac crest of the innominate bone, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock. * First Layer op Muscles (fig. 116). Two muscles, the trape- ^in&'st zius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer. layer. Dissection. The superficial fatty layer is to be taken from the Dissection, trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the shoulder to the spinal column ; and the upper limb is to be carried backwards or forwards according as it may be necessary to put on the stretch different portions of the muscles.