153 NERVES OF THE TONGUE. wards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the Ending, tongue, at which they end in the fascia. Action. Both muscles tend to shorten the tongue : and they will Use. bend the point back and up. The inferior lingualis (fig. 38, D) is much stronger than the pre- g£^sr lm" ceding, and is placed under the tongue, between the hyo and & genio-hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia at Origin, the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle : from its attached surface fasciculi are continued vertically EndmS« upwards through the transverse fibres to the dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the styloglossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and distributed with it. Action. Like the upper lingualis this muscle shortens the tongue, Use. and bends the point down and back. The mucous membrane is a continuation of that lining the mouth, Mucous and is provided with a laminar epithelium. It partly invests the its epithe-' tongue, and is reflected off at different points in the form of folds llum- (p. 148). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-epiglottid folds, Fol<ls- connecting this body to the root of the tongue; the central one of these is called the fragnum of the epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished with numerous glands, and some follicles. The follicles are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are Follicles, surrounded by closed capsules in the submucous tissue, like the arrangement in the tonsil: they occupy the dorsum of the tongue between the papillae circumvallatse and the epiglottis, where they form a stratum, close beneath the mucous membrane. The glands (lingual) are racemose or compound in structure, and glands similar to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed beneath the at the base' mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue behind the papillae vallate. A few are found in front of the circumvallate papillae, where they project into the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on the surface ; others into the hollows around the vallate papillae, or into the foramen caecum and the depressions of the follicles. Opposite the papillae vallate, at the margin of the tongue, is a glands at small cluster of submucous glands. Under the tip of the tongue, and on each side of the frsenum, is another elongated collection of the tip. same kind of glands imbedded in the muscular fibres, from which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nerves on the under surface of each ^er™es froni half of the tongue, viz. the gustatory, the hypoglossal, and the sources, glosso-pharyngeal (fig. 23). The gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the muscular sub- gustatory, stance, and to the two smallest sets of papillae, conical and fungi- form ; it joins also the hypo-glossal nerve. The hypo-glossal nerve is spent in long slender offsets to the hypo-glos- muscular substance of the tongue. s ' The glosso-pharynqeal nerve divides under the hyo-glossus into ai1ld glosso- u x u u J ° pharyngeal.