DISSECTION OF THE THOBAX. 358 Its connec- tions in the thorax. Bronchi lie in the roots of the lungs are like the trachea in form. The right differs from the left branch. Course and connections. Kemove the lungs. Take away heart and pericar- dium. Surface of lung is smooth ; is marked "by lobules and small cells. Colour varies with age. Accidental colour. Consistence. Crepitation, In the thorax the trachea is situate with the great vessels in the space between the pleural bags. Here it is covered by the arch of the aorta, by the innominate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the air tube is the oesophagus, which is slightly inclined to the left near the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the vagus, and the innominate artery, for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left subclavian artery, and the vagus with its recurrent branch. The bronchi, or the branches of the air tube, are contained in the roots of the lungs, and are surrounded by vessels, glands, and nerves. Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been described at p. 332 ; but the cha- racters of each are now to be noticed. The right branch is about an inch in length, and is larger than the left; it passes outwards, on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra, beneath the arch of the aorta and the upper cava, and above the right pulmonary artery: the vena azygos arches above it. The left branch, about two inches long, is directed obliquely downwards through the arch of the aorta, and joins the root of the left lung a vertebra lower than on the opposite side. The tube lies on the oesophagus and thoracic duct, and on the aorta ; it is at first below the level of the corresponding pulmonary artery. Dissection. The lungs are to be removed now from the body by cutting through the vessels of the root. The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium to be detached from the surface of the dia- phragm ; in removing the pericardium, the dissector should be careful not to injure the things contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical Characters of the Lung. The surface of the lung is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the serous covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be divided by septa, into small irregularly sized pieces or lobules. On looking closely at it, especially at a thin margin, minute cells will be per- ceived in it. The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a pale red ; but in the adult the texture becomes grayish, and presents here and there dark gray spots or lines of pigment, whose shade deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old people. After death, the colour of the posterior border may be bluish-black from the accumulation of blood. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the pulmonary substance appears like a sponge ; but the lung which is deprived of air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from the con- taining spaces through the pulmonary structure, and produces the