91 INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. The pterygoid branches come from both parts of the inferior Branches to maxillary nerve. mSes^- The branch or branches to the external pterygoid springs from the external smaller piece of the trunk, or from the buccal nerve, and enters the under surface of the muscle. The nerve to the internal pterygoid arises from the large part of internal, the maxillary trunk close to the skull, and may be followed beneath the upper border to the deep surface of its muscle • it will be learnt in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section 14). The buccal branch (*), longer and larger than the others, perfo- Buccinatoi z^ates the external pterygoid, and is directed inwards, beneath the coronoid process to the surface of the buccinator, where it ends in terminal branches. As it perforates the pterygoid muscle filaments are given to the fleshy substance ; and after it has passed through the fibres it furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle. The nerve is directed towards the angle of the mouth, supplying the integu- ment, the buccinator muscle, and the lining mucous membrane. It and mucous is united freely with the facial nerve, the two forming a plexus. The larger part of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into p^°r/ three trunks—auriculotemporal, dental, and gustatory. A few of inferior the fibrils of the small (motor) root are applied to it, and are con- inaxillaiJ- veyed to certain muscles, viz. tensor tympani, circumflexus palati, pterygoideus interims, mylo-hyoideus, and digastricus. The auriculotemporal nerve (4) separates from the others ^mpcS near the base of the skull, and has commonly two roots. Its course to the surface of the head is directed first backwards be- neath the external pterygoid muscle, as far as the articulation of jj^J beneath, the jaw ; and then upwards with the temporal artery in front of the ear. The nerve furnishes branches to the surrounding parts, branche&UeS viz., the joint, the ear, and the parotid gland ; and it communicates with the facial nerve. Its ramifications on the head are described at page 8. In the part now dissected its branches are the follow- ing :— a. Branches of the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to J°J^®S the meatus from the point of union of the branches of the facial with the auriculotemporal nerve, and enter that tube between the cartilage and bone. b. Auricular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw arises near a^aJ^i.llt the same spot as the preceding, or from the branches to the meatus. ° JaW' c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the external ear below ear> and the meatus auditorius : it sends offsets along the internal maxillary artery, which communicate with the sympathetic nerve. d. Parotid branches. These small filaments ramify in the gland, parotid; e. Communicating branches. Two or more branches around the ex- *n^111^ac^al ternal carotid artery communicate with the facial and sympathetic thetie. nerves. The inferior dental (7) is the largest of the three trunks of the *^™r inferior maxillary nerve. In its course to the canal in the lower jaw, the nerve is external to the gustatory, and lies at first beneath is between the external pterygoid muscle ; it is afterwards placed on the in- muscles,