310 DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. Looseness. Capsular Attach- ments Aperture. Muscles around, Accessory band- Dissection of internal ligaments. Tendon of the biceps. Glenoid ligament. Synovial membrane. (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. The bones are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may be drawn from the scapula for the distance of an inch. The capsular ligament (fig. 75, 5) surrounds loosely the articular ends of the bones ; it is thickened above and below, and receives fibres from the contiguous tendons. At the upper edge it is fixed around the articular surface of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. At the lower edge the ligament is fixed (fig. 89) to the neck of the humerus close to the articular surface above, but at a little distance therefrom below ; and its continuity is interrupted between the tuberosities (b) by the tendon of the biceps muscle, over which it is continued along the bicipital groove (fig. 75). On the inner side there is generally an aperture in the capsule, below the coracoid process, through which the synovial membrane of the joint is con- tinuous with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The following muscles surround the articulation ;—above and be- hind are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; below, the capsule is only partly covered by the subscapularis ; but in- ternally it is well supported by the last-named muscle. On the front of the capsule is a rather thick band of fibres,—the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament (fig. 75, 8), which springs from the base of the coracoid process of the scapula, and widening over the front of the joint, is attached to the margins of the bicipital groove, and to the tuberosities. Dissection. To see the interior of the articulation cut circularly through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid ligament, and the tendon of the biceps will be manifest. The tendon of the biceps muscle arches over the head of the humerus, and serves the purpose of a ligament in restraining the upward and outward movements of that bone. It is attached to the upper part of the glenoid fossa of the scapula (fig. 89, d), and is united on each side with the glenoid ligament. At first fiat, it afterwards becomes round, and entering the groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, it is surrounded by the synovial membrane. The glenoid ligament (fig. 89, c) is a firm fibro-cartilaginous band, which surrounds the fossa of the same name, increasing it for the reception of the head of the humerus. It is about two lines in width, and is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps; but most of its fibres are fixed separately to the margin of the glenoid fossa. The synovial membrane lines the articular surface of the capsule, and is continued through the aperture on the inner side to join the bursa beneath the subscapular muscle. The membrane is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the bicipital groove of the humerus.