COCHLEAR PASSAGES AND ORGAN OF COBTI. 755 limbus ends, to the outer side of the tube of the cochlea, so as to cut off: a small channel,—the canal of the cochlea (cc). It is formed by a very thin layer of fine connective tissue with blood capillaries, and is covered by the epithelial lining of the two spaces between which it intervenes. The membrane of Corti (mc membrana tectoria) stretches hori- Membrane zontally across the tube of the cochlea near, and parallel to the of Cortl' membrana basilaris. Internally it is attached to the limbus of the septum cochlear, and externally to the wall of the cochlear tube. It is a thin elastic transversely-fibred layer, which is thicker inter- nally than externally. Between it and the membrana basilaris (mb) is a narrow channel for the reception of the organ of Corti. Smaller passages of the cochlea (fig. 245). The spaces re- Small spaces suiting from the subdivision of the scala vestibuli by the membranes of cochlea- above noticed are two in number, viz., canal of the cochlea, and space for the organ of Corti. The canal or duct of the cochlea (cc) is the narrow interval Duct of the towards the outer part of the cochlear tube, between the membrane cochlea' of Eeissner (*), and the membrane of Corti (mc). It extends from extent ' apex to base of the cochlea like the larger scalse ; it is lined by ' epithelium, and contains a fluid (endolymph). Above it reaches into the cupola and is closed. Below it is joined closed by a very small tube (fig. 246, c canalis reuniens Hensen), with above' the saccule in the vestibule. ci°uct below. The space for the organ of Corti is a narrow interval correspond- smallest ing in depth with the sulcus spiralis, and is placed between the sPace> membrane of Corti (mc) and the membrana basilaris (mb). It boundaries> contains the organ of Corti and is filled with fluid. The organ of Corti (fig. 245) rests on the membrana basilaris Organ of (mb), and occupies the narrow space between this and the mem- Cortl' brane of Corti; it consists of rods and cells placed vertically on each side of a median space (sm). The rods are firm peculiar bodies, which are arranged in two Two rows of rows (d and e) over an intervening triangular space ; they slant towards each other above, and are separated below like the rafters position in a roof. The inner row, the more numerous, are in contact with each other on the sides, and the outer set touch only by the upper end. "Where they touch above they are flattened and directed out, aj}^racters the inner (d ) overlapping the outer (e) ; and where they rest on the membrana basilaris each is provided with a nucleus-like body. The cells, somewhat like columnar epithelium, (fig. 245) are nucleated, and are arranged vertically on the sides of the rods. The corti. lower end is furnished with a process which is directed to the membrana basilaris ; and the other, placed upwards, is provided with stiff filaments or hairs. The inner set (i) stand in a single line between the sulcus spiralis inner set, and the inner row of rods. The other set (p) four deep, are flat- and outer tened and riband-like, and bulged below, and are placed outside the external row of rods ; the filaments at the upper end project through apertures in the layer (/) above them. 3 c 2