730 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Position and The pigment cells are spread out in the stroma, and are disposed Sent cell?" a^s0 on k°tn surfaces- In tne stroma they are ramified and irre- 16n ' gular, as in the choroid (fig. 228, A), and may contain yellow, brown, or very dark pigment. On the front they are ovalish or rounded, but still ramified ; and behind, where there is a thick layer (uvea), the cells are round without outrunners, and are filled Pigment with granules. The colour of the iris is dependent upon the tint, gives colour. and ^ pogition of tlie pigment. Arteries are The arteries of the iris (fig. 230, B) have a looped arrangement: looped. are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches (d, p. 46), but some come from the vessels of the ciliary processes. On arriving at the ciliary muscle the long ciliary arteries form a circle (e) around the margin of the iris ; from this loop other anastomo- tic branches are directed to- wards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the pupil, and end in veins. The veins resemble the arte- ries in their arrangement in the iris, and terminate in the veins of the choroidal-coat. The nerves of the iris (fig. 230, a) divide into branches which communicate, and extend towards the pupil ; they are with- out dark outline, and their ending is not known. Arteries of Ciliary Vessels and Nerves (fig. 229). The ciliary arteries are the eyeball 0ffse-j-s 0f ^he ophthalmic (p. 46), and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. They are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliary ; but they will not be seen without a special injection of the vessels of the eye. posterior The posterior ciliary branches (g) pierce the sclerotic coat around ciliary, an(^ c]ose ^e 0ptic nerve, and running forwards on the choroid, enter its substance at different points, two of them Two of this set (long ciliary) are directed forwards, one on each ciiiary.l0nS s^e of the eyeball, and form a circle around the iris in the ciliary muscle, as before explained. In the ball the outer one lies rather above, and the inner, rather below the middle. c^iiaeri°r ^6 anier^or ciliary arteries, five or six in number, are smaller ci iary. ^ian the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit from muscular * Distribution of the nerves and vessels of the iris. a. Half of the iris representing the nerves. a. Nerves entering the membrane, and uniting in a plexus, b, within it (Kolliker). b. Half of the iris with a plan of the vessels, d. Ciliary arteries, e. Arch of vessels at the outer edge of the iris. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iris. g. Sphincter of the iris.