210 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Five ven- tricles are in the brain. Lateral ventricle. Shape and position; three cornna. Consists of two parts. One is horizontal. Its roof: floor, and bodies along it. Median boundary. Aperture between two. downwards, through the substance of the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. (See fig. 63.) Ventricles of the Brain.—The ventricular spaces in the interior of the cerebrum are derived chiefly from the subdivision of a large central hollow, and are five in number. One (lateral) is contained in each hemisphere ; and these constitute the first and second. The third occupies the middle line of the brain near the under surface ; and the small fifth is included in the partition between the lateral ventricles. The fourth is situate between the cerebellum and the posterior surfaces of the medulla oblongata and pons. The lateral ventricles (fig. 63) are two in number, one in each hemisphere ; they are separated incompletely in the middle line by a septum, and they communicate by an aperture below that parti- tion. The interior is lined by a thin stratum of areolar tissue covered by nucleated epithelium (the ependyma ventriculorum), with cilia at some spots. Each is a narrow interval, which reaches into the anterior, pos- terior, and middle regions of the corresponding hemisphere. Its central part (body) is almost straight, but the extremities (cornua) are curved. Thus there are three cornua in each, which have the following disposition :—The anterior is directed outwards from its fellow in the other hemisphere. The posterior or the digital cavity is much smaller in size, and is bent inwards in the occipital lobe towards the one of the opposite side. And the inferior cornu, beginning opposite the posterior fold of the corpus callosum (a), descends in a curved direction in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, with the concavity of the bend turned inwards. For the purpose of examining its boundaries, the ventricle may be divided into an upper or horizontal, and a lower or descending part. The upper or horizontal portion reaches from the frontal to the occipital lobe, and is curved like the Italic letter/. The roof is formed by the corpus callosum. The floor is irregular in outline, and presents from before backwards the following objects :—first, a small piece of the reflected corpus callosum (p. 201) ; next, a large, gray body, the corpus striatum (e) ; behind this, the large white projection, named optic thalamus (g) ; and between the two last bodies is a white band(/), tsenia semicir- cularis. On the surface of the optic thalamus is a vascular fold of the pia mater (h),—the plexus choroides, together with the thin white half of the fornix (c). Close behind the thalamus is the beginning of a projection (hippocampus major, Z), in the floor of the descending part of the lateral ventricle ; and in the posterior cornu is an elongated eminence, the hippocampus minor (i). The inner boundary (septum ventriculorum) consists of a thin layer, which is sometimes named septum lucidum (fig. 63, b). Its extent corresponds with the central part of the corpus callosum. Below it and the fornix, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, is the aperture of communication (foramen of Monro) between the two lateral ventricles.