LIGAMENTS OF LARYNX. 165 cartilage is the small, conical, fibre-cartilage of Santorini (corni- culum capitulmn), which is bent inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytseno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous bodies, Fibro-carti- one on each side, which are contained in the arytasno-epiglottid Wrisberg. folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated and rounded in form, like a grain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytamoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish pro- jection. The epiglottis (fig. 43, A) is single, and is the largest of the pieces Einslottl«- of yellow fibro-cartilage. In form it is cordate ; and it resembles a ^sition'1 leaf, with the stalk below and the lamina or expanded piece above. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically; but during de- glutition it takes a horizontal direction so as to close the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to which it Surfaces, is connected by three folds of mucous membrane ; and the posterior surface, hollowed laterally, is convex from above down. To its Sldes' sides the arytasno-epiglottid folds of mucous membrane are united. Foot stalk' After the mucous membrane has been removed from the epiglottis Glands in lt- its substance will be seen to be perforated by numerous spaces, which lodge mucous glands. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of yellowish ^1]Jlosed fat with some glands ; this has been sometimes called the epiglot- tidean gland. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is connected by extrinsic Ligaments ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Other iarynx, ligaments unite together the cartilages, sometimes with joints. Union of the larynx ivith the hyoid bone and the trachea. A thin between os loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) extends from the thyroid carti- andtrachea. lage to the hyoid bone ; and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-hyoid ligament (fie;. 42, L) is attached on the one part Thyro-hyoid i „ \ . t .■, membrane. to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other, to the upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gradually becomes thinner towards Arrange- the sides ; and it ends laterally in a rounded elastic cord, which ment' intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone and the upper cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The superior laryngeal nerve and vessels perforate the ligament, ^o™!ec" and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral cord of the liga- ment will be found occasionally a small ossific nodule (cartilago triticea). The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage ^{J^ to the first ring of the trachea—crico-tracheal ligament, resembles membrane, the bands joining the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are Between