122 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. cut base of the skull from inside. Saw the side of skull, and chisel through the base, then cut soft parts. Preserve piece of spine. Fasten pharynx. Dissect nerves on left side, then muscles, viz., lower and middle con- strictor, upper con- strictor. head is to be placed downwards, so that it may stand on the cut edge of the skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib, and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occcipital bone ; and without injuring, on the left side, the vessels and nerves near the skull. For the division of the skull turn upwards the inner surface of the base, and make the following incisions in the posterior fossa. On the right side a cut, with the chisel, is to be carried along the line of union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital bone. On the left side another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occipital bone internal to the foramen jugulare and the inferior petrosal sinus : this is to begin rather behind that foramen, and to end opposite the one on the other side. The skull is to be sawn through vertically on the left side close behind the mastoid part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall meet the outer end of the cut made with the chisel. Finally placing the skull again upside down, let the student chisel through the basilar process of the occipital bone between the attach- ments of the pharynx and the muscles of the spinal column, the instrument being directed backwards. The base of the skull is now divided into two parts (one having the pharynx attached to it, the other articulating with the spine), which can be readily separated with a scalpel. The spinal column with the piece of the occipital bone connected with it should be set aside, and kept for after examination. Dissection of the pharynx (fig. 28). Let the student take the an- terior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately filling the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the oeso- phagus may be pendent and towards him. On the left side of the pharynx a different view, from that of the right side, may be obtained of the cranial and sympathetic nerves near the skull (p. 109), when some loose areolar tissue, and the styloid process with its muscles, have been removed : if the lower ends of the nerves are fixed with pieces of thread, a more satisfac- tory examination can be made of them. Afterwards the dissector may proceed to remove the fascia from the constrictor muscles of the right side (fig. 28), in the direction of the fibres,—these radiating from the side to the middle line. The margins of the two lower constrictor muscles (middle and in- ferior) are to be defined. Beneath the lower one near the larynx, will be found the recurrent nerve with vessels ; whilst intervening between the middle and superior, are the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower jaw and the ptery go-maxillary ligament, it will be necessary to cut through the internal pterygoid muscle of the right side. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skull, are two small muscles of the palate (F and 11) entering the pharynx :—one,