BRANCHES OF CAROTID. 79 hyoides, and passes beneath the omohyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to which it is dis- tributed on the anterior aspect. This artery is superficial in the j^g these anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to the lowest constrictor and offsets; the other muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The liyoid branch is very inconsiderable in size, and runs the hyoid inwards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the muscles attached to ' that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. b. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the to sterno- sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to muscle^ the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal branch pierces the membrane between the hyoid to larynx, bone and the thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- to crico- tween the cricoid and the thyroid cartilage, and communicates with membrane, the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid Accompany- body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into mg vem* the internal jugular vein. The facial artery (g) arises above the lingual, and is directed Facial upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery aitery passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is after- wards lodged on the submaxillary gland, on which it makes a sig- moid turn. Its anatomy in the face has been referred to (p. 27). ng^lies From the cervical part branches are given to the pharynx, and to branches the structures below the jaw, viz. :— • a. The inferior palatine branch ascends to the pharynx beneath to the the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus ' muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, after furnishing a branch to the tonsil. This branch frequently arises from the ascending pharyngeal artery. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes tonsil, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in offsets to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland subniaxii- from the part of the artery in contact with it. d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and and myio- courses forwards on the mylo-hyoideus to the anterior belly of the Smscie. digastric muscle, where it ends in offsets : some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip ; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone,—one or two perforating the mylo-hyoideus and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The facial vein (p. 28) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical Facial vein, part of its course it receives branches corresponding with the off- sets of the artery. Not unfrequently it opens into the temporo- maxillary trunk. The occipital artery is of considerable size, and is destined for artery^1