132 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. Nerves. Mucous membrane of pharynx superiorly has colum- nar, infe- riorly scaly epithelium. Beginning of oesopha- gus. Formed of two layers; outer or lon- gitudinal, and inner or circular. side. Nerves are furnished to it from the fifth and glossopharyn- geal nerves. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous anteriorly with the lining of the mouth, nose, and larynx. Covering the soft palate and its numerous small glands (palatine), the membrane is con- tinued to the tonsils on each side, and is prolonged by the Eustachian tube to the tympanum. In front of each arytenoid cartilage it encloses a mass of muciparous glands (arytenoid). Inferiorly, it is continued by the oesophagus to the stomach. The mucous membrane is provided with more glands in the upper, than in the lower part of the pharynx ; and its character, near the different apertures, resembles that of the membrane lining the cavities communicating with the pharynx. Its epithelium is scaly below the nares (Henle) ; but is columnar and ciliated above that spot, where only the air is transmitted. Beginning of the oesophagus. This tube is much smaller than the pharynx, and the walls are flaccid. For its commencement, and its connections in the neck, see p. 120. The gullet consists of two layers of muscular fibres, with a lining of mucous membrane. The external layer, is formed of longitudinal fibres, which begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, anterior and two lateral; the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the inferior constrictor. The internal layer, on the other hand, is formed of circular fibres, which are continuous with those of the inferior constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is described more fully in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth, are to be examined with the mouth, as all may be considered accessory parts. Mouth. The Mouth. The cavity of the mouth is situate below that of the nose, and extends from the lips in front to the isthmus of the Situation, fauces behind. Its boundaries are partly osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw form, bone. When the lower jaw is moderately removed from the upper the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The and bounda- roof, concave, is constituted by the hard and soft palate, and is ries' limited anteriorly by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, bounded by the arch of the lower teeth ; and beneath the tip of that body is the fraenum linguae, with the sublingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is bounded by the lips ; and the posterior corresponds with the anterior pillars of the soft palate.