593 BLADDER, AND URETHRA IN FEMALE. at the outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued into the mucous lining of the uterus, but at the outer end it joins is contiim- the peritoneum. A columnar and ciliated epithelium covers the peritoneum, surface, as in the uterus, and is said by Henle to be detected on the outer surface of the fimbria?. The bloodvessels and nerves are furnished from those supplied to Vessels, the ovary and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the form and size of the female ^^™y of bladder have been detailed in the description of the connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 560). For a notice of its struc- ture, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 573). Dissection. To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and remove Preparation the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the muscular fibres. of lt* After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has been open it. learnt, they are to be slit open along the upper part. Urethra. The length and the connections of the excretory tube Length are given in page 560. Uretina. The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter Size; of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder: near the external aperture is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of not being surrounded by resistant ^ can be structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the dilated, corresponding passage in the male. Structure. Like the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of bloodvessels, and by mus- male."1 thC cular fibre. The muscular layer extends the whole length of the urethra. Its ^t°<rf cir fibres are circular, corresponding with those in the prostatic en- cular fibres, largement of the other sex, and continuous behind with the middle layer of the bladder. In the perinaBal ligament this stratum is covered by the constrictor urethras as in the male (p. 435). The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the floor of the coat' canal, resembles the median crest in the male urethra (p. 576). floor;1 Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles ; and towards follicles and the inner end are tubular mucous glands, whose apertures are slands» arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane. A laminar epithelium is spread over the surface, and beneath it are deeper epithelium, conical cells as in the bladder. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular tissues |gg™ucous lies close beneath the mucous membrane, as in the male. Dissection. The rectum may be prepared for examination by dis- Preparation tending it with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering and the areolar tissue from its surface. Rectum. The structure of the rectum is similar in the two sexes ; Rectum like and the student may use the description in the Section on the viscera ^*e°f the of the male pelvis (p. 572). Q Q