BOUNDARIES AND SIZE. 327 The base is constructed at the circumference by the last dorsal The base, vertebra behind, by the end of the" sternum before, and by the ribs on the side ; whilst the space included by the bones is closed by the diaphragm. The base is wider transversely than from front to back, and is surface, convex towards the chest ; though at certain spots it projects more than at others. Thus in the centre it is lower than at the sides, and is on a level with the base of the xiphoid cartilage. On the right side it rises to a level with the upper border of the fifth rib and height: near the sternum ; and on the left, to the corresponding part of the upper border of the sixth rib.* From the lateral projections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but more behind than before, so as to leave a narrow interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of this attached edge will f*y^dQ be marked by an oblique line, over the side of the chest, from the base of the xiphoid cartilage to the tenth rib ; but it differs slightly on the two sides, being rather lower on the left (fig. 97). The apex of the space is continued higher than the osseous boun- ^« into dary, and reaches into the root of the neck. Its highest point is neck, not in the middle line, for there the windpipe, bloodvessels, &c. lie ; but is prolonged on each side for an inch or an inch and a half above the first rib, so that the apex may be said to be bifid. is bifid- Each point projects between the scaleni muscles, and under the How subclavian bloodvessels ; and in the interval between them lie the bounded- several things passing between the neck and the thorax. Dimensions. The extent of the thoracic cavity does not corre- ExJ®TioF size • • i -Till n°t that °f spond with the apparent size externally ; tor the space included by cavity. the ribs below is occupied by the abdominal viscera, and the cavity reaches above into the neck. In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm, the Depth varies depth of the space varies greatly at different points. At the centre, before; where the depth is least, it measures about seven inches, but at the behind; back as much again ; and the other vertical measurements can be on sides, estimated by means of the data given of the level of the base on the wall of the thorax. Alterations in capacity. The size of the thoracic cavity is con* altered in stantly varying during life with the condition of the ribs and dia- life; phragm in breathing. The horizontal measurements are increased in inspiration, when transversely the ribs are raised and separated from one another; and are dimi- b} llbs * nished in expiration as the ribs approach and the sternum sinks. An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the diaphragm in depth by in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is taken into the diaPhia£m> lungs, increasing thus the cavity ; and ascends when the air is ex- pelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or to diminish it in violent efforts. But the movement of the but un- diaphragm is not equal throughout, and some parts of the cavity ua }' * This is the height in the dead body. The level to which it may reach in great respiratory efforts during life will be stated with the account of the Diaphragm (p. 529).