DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 526 become straight (tubuli recti); afterwards join toge- ther (rete testis), and leave the gland as vasa efferentia. Structure Excretory duct is "bent on the testicle forming epididymis named parts. Is hut a single tube length and size. Where it is straight it is the vas deferens : this opens into the urethra ; become larger (g^th of an inch) and straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa recta : they are about twenty in number, and piercing the fibrous mediastinum enter into the rete testis. Rete testis (fig. 1G7, e). In the mediastinum the seminal tubes have very thin walls, and are situate in the anterior part, in front of the bloodvessels ; they communicate freely so as to form a net- work. Vasa efferentia (fig. 167,/). About twelve or twenty seminal tubes issue from the top of the rete, and leave the upper end of the testicle as the vasa efferentia : these are larger than the tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the common excretory duct. Though straight at first they soon become convoluted, and have been named coni vasculosi. In the natural state they are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled the}7 measure six inches ; and they join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. They have a muscular coat of longitudinal and circular fibres ; and the epithelium of the mucous lining is columnar and ciliated. The excretory duct receives the vasa efferentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis : but the remainder is straight, and is named vas deferens. The epididymis (fig. 167, li) extends in the form of an arch along the outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major (g) / and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like—globus minor (/), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epididymis is called the body (ft). Its head is attached to the testis by the vasa efferentia; and its lower part is fixed to the tunica albuginea by fibrous tissue, and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis. The epididymis is formed of a single tube, bent in a zigzag way, whose coils are united into a solid mass by fibrous tissue. After the removal of the serous membrane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it will then measure twenty feet in length. The diameter of its canal is about -^th of an inch, though there is a slight diminution in size towards the globus minor, but it is increased finally in the vas deferens. The vas deferens (fig. 167, h) begins opposite the lower end of the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis. At first the excretory duct is slightly wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm round tube : near its termination it is enlarged again and sacculated, but this condition will be referred to with the viscera of the pelvis. In its course to the urethra it ascends on the inner side of the testicle, and along the bloodvessels of the spermatic cord with which it enters the internal abdominal ring ; it is then directed over the side of the bladder, and through the prostate to open into the