371 LIGAMENTS OF THE BIB. the rib, and on the other to the fibro cartilage between the vertebras. In the joints of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, where the head is not in contact with the intervertebral substance, the ligament is absent. Synovial sacs. There are two sacs in the articulation, one on each with side of the interarticular ligament. In the three joints before men- gacs*^1 tioned (1st, 11th, and 12th) there is but one sac. Movements. In the costo-vertebral articulation there is a gliding Kind of of the rib up and down, and forwards and backwards. The move- movement; ment of the head is more limited in the first seven ribs which are fixed to the sternum than in the others ; and is greatest in the last degree, two, in consequence of the ribs being free anteriorly, and not fixed behind by a joint to the transverse process. During the increase and decrease of the chest the body of the Motion of rib is rotated out and in, around a line subtending the arc of the nl>1:)ody- circle of which its fore part is a segment. The degree of motion is greatest in the longest ribs. Ligaments of the Neck and Tubercle. Three ligaments (costo- Ligaments transverse) pass from the neck and tubercle of the rib to two trans- ribneCk °f verse processes. And there is a synovial sac between the rib and its transverse process. The anterior costotransverse ligament (fig. 108, 4) is larger and anterior longer than the others. It ascends from the upper edge of the neck Verse~ to the transverse process of the upper of the two vertebrae with which the head articulates : it is wanting to the first rib. Between this ligament and the vertebra the posterior branches of the inter- costal vessels and dorsal nerve pass ; and externally it is joined by the fibrous membrane between the strata of the intercostal muscles. The posterior costotransverse (fig. 115,3) is placed at the posterior P°|*Q^ns aspect of the rib. It is a short band of fibres between the rougU verse, part of the tubercle and the tip of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae touched by the rib head. This band is longest in the lowest two ribs. The middle or interosseous costotransverse is placed horizontally middi^ between the neck of the rib and the transverse process with which verse. the tubercle articulates. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the transverse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish areolar tissue. In the last two ribs the interosseous costo-transverse blends in in the two one band with the posterior costo-transverse ligament. last ribs. Synovial sac. If the posterior ligament is divided, a synovial mem- synovial hrane will be exposed in the joint between the tubercle of the rib saCj and the transverse process. In the lowest pair of ribs, which do not touch transverse pro- wnere cesses, the synovial sac is absent. absent. Movement. In the motion of the rib, the bone glides upwards and Motion, downwards on the articular facet of the transverse process ; and the degree will be limited by the surrounding costo-transverse ligaments. b b 2