485 C(ELIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. defined ; this is a difficult task without the aid of some one to hold aside the stomach and spleen. The veins will have been dissected for the most part with the Veins, arteries ; but the origin of the vena portse is to be made out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The cceliac axis (fig. 143, c) is the first visceral branch of the Coeiiac axis abdominal aorta, and arises between the pillars of the diaphragm. thre^M-**16 It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch long, which projects lowino :~ above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the solar plexus of tlie sympathetic. Its branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic—radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the surrounding viscera. a. The coronary artery (d) is the smallest of the three, and Coronary, passes between the layers of the little omentum to the left end of whlciL §lves the stomach. At that spot it furnishes some oesophageal branches, and turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric, o) from the hepatic artery. Its offsets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus distributed :— (Esophageal branches ascend on the gullet through the opening offsets to in the diaphragm, supplying that tube ; and they anastomose on it phagus" with branches of the thoracic aorta. Gastric branches are given to both sides of the stomach, and those and the on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic stomach- artery. b. The splenic artery (e) is the largest branch of the coeiiac axis in Splenic the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally to artery the spleen, along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches, about seven in number (from four supplies the to ten), which enter thatviscus by the surface towards the stomach. spleen' It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it, and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. Pancreatic branches. Numerous small branches are supplied to the the pancreas gland ; and one of these, art. pancreatica magna, arises near the g^ll twigsd left end, and runs to the right in the substance of the viscus with the duct. Branches for the stomach arise from the divisions of the artery near and the the spleen. Some of these, vasa brevia, turn upwards to the left stomacl1 end of the stomach, beneath the gastro-splenic omentum and ramify krevla,a in the coats of that organ. Another longer branch, art. gastro-epiploica sinistra (f) turns to and left the right between the layers of the great omentum along the great epiploic curve of the stomach, and inosculates with the right gastro- epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces of peri- toneum forming the great omentum. c. The hepatic artery {g) is intermediate in size between the other Hepatic- two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course a^g^ to to the liver the vessel is bent first to the right towards the small the liver,0 end of the stomach, where it supplies its principal branches (superior