TRICEPS EXTENSOR OF ELBOW. 273 BACK OF THE ARM. Position. During the examination of the back of the arm, the limb is to be raised in a semiflexed position by means of a block beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that position. Dissection (fig. 79). On the back of the arm there is one muscle, the triceps, with the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda vessels. The skin having been Position (f the part. How to lay bare the triceps, Fig. 79.* reflected already, the muscle will be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia. To take away the fascia, carry an inci- sion along the middle of the limb to a little below the elbow ; and in reflecting it, the sub- aponeurotic loose tissue should be removed at the same time. Separate the middle from the inner and outer heads of the muscle ; and trace the musculo- spiral nerve and vessels beneath it. Define the outer head which reaches down to the spot at which the musculo-spiral nerve appears on the outer side. The triceps muscle (fig. 79,) is divided superiorly into three heads of origin, inner, outer, and middle : two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. The middle piece, or head, A, is the longest, and has a tendi- nous origin, about an inch wide, from the inferior costa of the scapula close to the glenoid cavity, where it is united with the capsule of the shoulder joint. The outer head, b, is narrow and ar * Dissection of the dorsal scapular vessels and nerve, and of the triceps mnscle of the arm. Muscles : a. Long head of the triceps, b. Outer head, with a bit of whalebone beneath it to mark the extent of its attachment down the humerus, c. Inner head of the triceps, d. Anconeus, e. Supinator longus. f. Extensor carpi radialis longus. g. Teres major, h. Teres minor. I. Infra-spinatus, cut across, j. Supra-spiuatus, cut through. Arteries : a. Supra-scapular, b. Dorsal scapular, c. Posterior circumflex. Nerves: 1. Supra-scapular. 2. Posterior circumflex. and separate pieces.