DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 144 one to sep- tum nasi; pterygo- palatine branch; vidian branch. Other nasal arteries. alveolar plexus. Facial nerve. Dissection of nerve in the bone, and its genu; are distributed on the spongy bones, and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the posterior ethmoidal cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. naso palatina), runs on the parti- tion between the nasal fossae to the incisor foramen, through which it anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth ; this branch accompanies the naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with numerous ramifications. The pterygo-palatine is a very small branch which, passing back- wards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to the lining membrane of the pharynx. The vidian or pterygoid hrancli is contained in the vidian canal with the nerve of the same name, and ends on the mucous mem- brane of the Eustachian tube and the upper part of the pharynx. Some small nasal arteries are furnished to the roof of the nasal fossa by the posterior ethmoidal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 46). Also the anteror ethmoidal (internal nasal, p. 46), enters the cavity with the nasal nerve, and ramifies in the lining membrane of the fore part of the nasal chamber as low as the vestibule ; a branch passes to the face between the os nasi and the cartilage, with its nerve. Other offsets from the facial artery supply the nose near the nostril. Veins. The veins accompanying the terminal branches of the in- ternal maxillary artery unite in the spheno-maxillary fossa in the alveolar plexus. Into this venous intercommunication offsets are received from the pterygoid plexus and the infraorbital vein ; and from it a large trunk (anterior internal maxillary) is directed forwards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 28). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose the veins have a plexi- form arrangement, as before said. Facial nerve in the temporal bone (fig. 35). This nerve winds through the petrous part of the temporal bone ; and it is followed with difficulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissection. The examination of the nerve is to be begun at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be carried forwards from that point. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through ver- tically between the meatus externus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the posterior end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The nerve will be then seen entering deeply into the substance'of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed by cutting away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less opened, and the chain of bones in it laid bare. The nerve is to be traced onwards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius internus. The surrounding- bone is to be removed from that enlargement so as to allow of the petrosal nerves