45 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. In the nose (fig. 34). Whilst in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- Nasal nerve nishes branches to the lining membrane of the septum narium 111 the Ilose' and outer wall; these will be subsequently referred to with the nerves of the nose (p. 143). Termination of the nasal nerve (fig. 9). After the nerve becomes and in the cutaneous on the side of the nose, as seen in the dissection of the lace' facial nerve (p. 36), it descends beneath the compressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the wing and tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC Or LENTICULAR GANGLION of the Sympathetic Lenticular nerve (fig. 11, 3) is a small round body, of the size of a pin's head, ganslion- and of a slight red colour. It is placed at the back of the orbit Situation, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of, and close to the ophthalmic artery. By its pos- Connec- terior part the ganglion has branches of communication with other tluns- nerves (its roots) ; and from the anterior part proceed the ciliary nerves to the eyeball. The ganglion communicates with sensory, motory, and sympathetic nerves. The offsets of communication are three in number. One, the long Three roots: root (5), is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which joins iong, the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thickness (short root4) passes from the inferior angle to join the branch of short, the third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the third root is derived from the sympathetic (the cavernous plexus), and sym- either in union with the long root, or as a distinct branch to the Patlietic- posterior border of the ganglion. Branches. The short ciliary nerves (fig. 11) are ten or twelve in Ciliary number, and are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper t^eyebail, and lower angles at the front of the ganglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. As they extend along the optic nerve to the eyeball they occupy the outer and under parts, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The ophthalmic artery, a branch of the internal carotid, is Ophthalmic transmitted into the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the artei7> vessel is outside the optic nerve, but it then courses inwards, over or under the nerve, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it ends in a nasal branch (external) on the side of the nose (fig. 17, re), and in the orbit, anastomoses with the angular and nasal branches of the facial. The oranches o'f the artery are numerous, though inconsiderable Branches, in size, and may be arranged in three sets :—one arising outside the optic nerve, another above it, and a third set on the inner side. The lachrymal artery accompanies the nerve of the same name Lachrymal to the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and biancn anastomosing with the palpebral arches. It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva ; and it to gland: anastomoses with the large meningeal artery by an offset through the sphenoidal fissure. At the front of the orbit it sends a small branch with each of offsets.