DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 490 Semilunar ganglia: situation; form. Several offsets of the plexus. Plexus to the dia- phragm has a ganglion on right side. Suprarenal nerves. Kenal plexus joins spermatic. Coeliac plexus divides like the artery, into coro- nary, splenic, and hepatic the last has secondary plexuses, xiz. : pyloric, gastro- epiploic, and duodenal: cystic. The semilunar ganglia, one on each side, are the largest in the body, and each is joined at the upper end by the great splanchnic nerve. Each is situate at the outer part of the plexus, close to the suprarenal body, and on the pillar of the diaphragm : the ganglion on the right side is beneath the vena cava. Irregular in shape, the mass is oval, or divided into smaller ganglia : from its outer side nerves are directed to the kidney and the suprarenal capsule. Offsets of the plexus. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses around the vessels ; thus there are coeliac, mesenteric, renal, spermatic, diaphragmatic, &c. Diaphragmatic plexus. This plexus comes from the upper end of the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the artery to enter the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phrenic nerve of the cervical plexus (p. 73) and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion where the plexus is joined by the spinal nerve ; and from it filaments are supplied to the vena cava and the suprarenal body : this ganglion is absent on the left side. (Swan.) The suprarenal nerves are very large and numerous, in comparison with the size of the viscus supplied, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. One of the splanchnic nerves communicates with this plexus. The renal plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion and outer side of the plexus, and is joined by the smallest splanchnic nerve. The nerves surround the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 481). The cozliac plexus is a direct continuation of the plexus around its artery : it is joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and by au offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. The plexus divides like the artery into three offsets—coronary, splenic, and hepatic. a. The coronary plexus accompanies the vessel of the same name to the upper border of the stomach, where it ends : it communicates with the left vagus nerve. b. The splenic plexus furnishes nerves to the pancreas, and to the stomach along the left gastroepiploic artery : and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena portae, the hepatic artery, and the bile duct into the liver, and ramifies on those vessels : in the small omentum the plexus is joined by offsets from the left vagus. The following secondary plexuses are furnished around the branches of the hepatic artery, and have the same name and dis- tribution as the vessels : .A pyloric plexus is distributed along the upper border of the stomach. Two other plexuses—gastro-epiploic (right) and pancreatico-duo- denal, correspond in distribution with the branches of each artery. A cystic plexus ramifies in the coats of the gall bladder with the artery.