GRAY SUBSTANCE OF MEDULLA. 195 Remains of gray matter of the spinal cord. At the lower end of Changes at the medulla the central gray matter resembles that in the spinal 0f medulla, •cord (fig. 126), but it undergoes the following changes : *—The posterior cornu increases in bulk, and extends towards the side of Posterior the cord, where it appears on the surface, in front of the restiform cornu' body, as the gray tubercle of Kolando (tuberculo cinero, fig. 58, t). Higher in the medulla it becomes the chief nucleus of the sensory root of the fifth nerve. The piece of the gray commissure behind the central canal of the gray com- cord joins, above, the nucleus of the vagus nerve, and contributes '' ' to the auditory nucleus : and the piece in front of the canal is laid Fig. 58.f Dare in the floor of the fourth ventricle by the inclination outwards of the restiform bodies ; above it enters the fasciculi teretes (p. 229). Special deposits of gray matter. Other gray deposits exist in the Special medulla, both in front and behind :—those behind are near the floor g^^^r. of the fourth ventricle, and serve as nuclei of origin for certain & nerves ; whilst those in front are interspersed amongst the fibres of the lateral columns of the cord. Nuclei at the bach of the medulla. A nucleus for the hypoglossal Nucleus of nerve is deposited in front of the central canal, and extends upwards nm h nerve" into the floor of the fourth ventricle close to the median sulcus (fig. 58, o). The nucleus of the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is Nucleus of placed opposite that of the hypoglossal, but behind the central canal. f™1 acces" * The description of the arrangement of the gray matter in the mednlla oblongata is a summary of the facts contained in Mr. Clarke's Paper in the " Transactions of the Royal Society for 1858." f Transverse section of the medulla oblongata above the middle • of the olivary body (Clarke), a. Anterior pyramid, b and c. Lateral Column, d. Restiform body. e. Posterior pyramid. /. Corpus olivare with roots of the ninth nerve piercing it. g. Olivary commissure, h. Deep transverse or commissural fibres of the medulla meeting in the raphe (a few more are added in this cut from a second drawing). Tc. Accessory olivary nucleus. I. Other gray deposits inside the olivary body. n. Floor of the fourth ventricle covered by epithelium, o. Nuclei of the ninth nerve, p. Nuclei of the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves, r. Nucleus of the auditory nerve, s. Superficial transverse fibres, t. Remains of the gelatinous substance (tuberculo cinereo). o 2