CHAMBER OF AQUEOUS HUMOUR. 731 branches (p. 46) ; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, supply the ciliary processes, and join the circle of the long ciliary vessels. In inflammation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and offsets of them form a ring round the cornea. The posterior ciliary veins (fig. 229) are commonly four in number, Posterior and the branches entering these trunks form arches (A, vasa vorti- vein?; cosa) on the surface of the choroid coat : they perforate the sclerotic layer at separate spots, midway between the cornea and the optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. Anterior ciliary veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, ^|rior and accompany the arteries through the sclerotic to end in the oph- veins, thalmic (p. 46) : they communicate with the venous space of the sinus circularis iridis (p. 724). The ciliary nerves (fig. 229, /) are derived from the lenticular Ciliary ganglion, and the nasal nerve (p. 45). Entering the back of the nerves eyeball with the arteries, they are continued with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid, nearly as far as the ciliary muscle : at this spot the nerves send offsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibres of the ciliary muscle, enter the iris, but their manner of ending is unknown. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and end in iris . i i . -t and ciliary the choroid. muscle. Chamber of the Aqueous Humour (fig. 225). The space between Space con- the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is suspended, aqueous contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the fetus humour; before the seventh month this interval is separated into two by the iris and the pupillary membrane, but in the adult it is only partly ^^^yinto divided, for the two communicate through the pupil. The boun- two by the daries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on which a ms* vertical section has been made. The anterior chamber is the larger of the two ; it is limited in p^erior front by the cornea, and behind by the iris. The posterior chamber (i) is a narrow interval behind the iris at Posterior; the circumference, which is bounded in front by the iris ; behind its. hound- by the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour ; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The aqueous humour is quite transparent, and consists nearly of humour-* pure water. A small quantity of chloride of sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. The Eetina (fig. 225, c). This layer (tunica nervea) is in part ^imouswith continuous with the optic nerve, and is the most delicate of all the optic nerve, coats of the eyeball. On it the image of objects is received in the bottom of the eye. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an ^lsssegC^°en eye which is obtained within forty-eight hours after death. To retina. bring it into view on the eyeball in which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal covering must be torn away carefully with two pair of forceps, whilst the eye is immersed in fluid. The retina is the most internal of the three concentric strata in Situation in eve ball. the globe of the eye, and is situate between the choroid coat and