DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 7G which are joined hy ■a tendon. Position to other parts. "The muscle bounds a .-space containing glands. Use. Stylo- hyoideus. Origin. Insertion. Surrounds digastric tendon. Use. Ninth nerve in the an- terior tri- angle. Branches : to hyoid muscles is joined physis of the lower jaw. From these attachments the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon, which is surrounded by fibres of the stylo-hyoideus, and is united by an aponeurotic expansion to its fellow, and to the body and part of the great cornu of the os hyoides. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at the outer end, where it is beneath the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to a little above the hyoid bone. Along its lower border lie the oc- cipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; the former passing back- wards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo- hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundary of a space between it, the jaw, and the base of the! skull, which is subdivided into two by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are contained the parotid gland, (10), and the vessels and nerves in connection with it (p. 29) ; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland, (n), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses that bone and opens the mouth. If the jaw is fixed, the two bellies act- ing will elevate the hyoid bone. It is supposed that the posterior belly may assist in moving back the head when the jaw is fixed. The stylo-hyoid muscle is thin and slender, and has the same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises from the outer surface of the styloid process, near the base, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the posterior belly of the digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon of that muscle. In some bodies the stylo-hyoideus is absent. Action. This muscle elevates the os hyoides preparatory to swal- lowing ; and checks, with the posterior belly of the digastric, the too forward movement of that bone by the other elevators. The hypoglossal nerve (ninth cranial) appears in the anterior triangle at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, where it hooks round the occipital artery ; it is then directed forwards to the tongue below that muscle, and disappears in front beneath the mylo-hyoideus. In this course the nerve passes over the two carotids ; and near the cornu of the os hyoides it crosses also the lingual artery, so as to become higher than the vessel. From this part arise the descendens noni branch, and a small muscular offset to the thyro-hyoideus. The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) leaves the trunk of the hypoglossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, and de- scends on the front of (sometimes in) the sheath of the vessel to about the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communi-