355 VAGUS NERVE AND BRANCHES. and is directed obliquely backwards, by the side of the trachea and between this tube and the oesophagus, to the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the posterior pulmonary plexus. From the plexus two large offsets are continued to the and on back of the gullet, and unite below into one trunk, which reaches esophagus, the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side of the left Left nerve common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and of lung, beneath the root of the lung, forming there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonic plexus one or two branches and on pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with offsets of the esophagus, right nerve in a plexus ; but these pieces are collected finally into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the gullet to the anterior part of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve in the thorax are the Branches following:— a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arising on the right Recurrent side on a level with the subclavian artery, and on the left at the laryngeal- lower border of the arch of the aorta, bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. b. Cardiac branches (thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches fur- Ranches- nished by the vagus in the neck, other offsets pass in front of the trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come from the trunk of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are sup- plied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each ^c^rdiac" vagus nerve (p. Ill) may be now seen. The branch of the right branch, lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac nerve of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial cardiac plexus (p. 337). c. Pulmonary branches. There are two sets of nerves for the Pulmonary lung, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior aspect of branches • the root. The anterior branches are two or three in number, and small in small i • • i m n n ■ i anterior, size, and communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on the pulmonary artery : these nerves are best seen on the left side. The posterior branches are the largest and much the most nume- lars_e . * ° posterior, rous. Jb ormmg a plexiform arrangement (posterior pulmonary form a plexus) behind the root of the lung by the flattening and splitting Plexus- of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the lung on the divisions of the air tube. d. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet, but in greatest ^ancneifal abundance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the form a branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with plexus* a network (plexus gula). a A 2