650 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Saero-sciatic ligaments. Attach- ments of the large one. Form; gives a pro- longation. Small ligament attach- ments. They give rise to two notches : small, with contents : large, and parts pass- ing through it. hip joint in stooping, instead of extending it and raising the trunk like the other external rotator muscles. The sacro-sciatic ligaments pass from the innominate hone to the sacrum and the coccyx ; they are two in number, and are named large and small. The large or posterior ligament (fig. 199, p) is attached internally to the posterior end of the hip bone, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and externally it is inserted into an impression on the inner and anterior part of the ischial tuberosity, sending up- wards a prolongation along the pubic arch. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted towards the middle, and is expanded again at the tuberosity. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin from it. Branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries per- forate it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other near the hip bone. At the sacrum and coccyx it is united with the large band, but at the opposite end it is inserted into the ischial spine. It is less strong than the superficial ligament, by which it is con- cealed ; and it rests on the coccygeus muscle. By their attachments these ligaments convert the large sacro- sciatic notch of the dried pelvis into two apertures or foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the inno- minate bone, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal obturator muscle with its nerve and vessels, and the pudic vessels and nerve. And above the smaller ligament is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis muscle, with the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus below it. Section III. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. Directions. The ham or the popliteal space may be taken after the buttock, in order that it may be seen in a less disturbed state than if it was dissected after the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. Position. The limb is to remain in the same position as in the dissection of the buttock. Take the Dissection (fig. 200). To remove the skin from the popliteal over thT1 region let an incision be made behind the knee for the distance of ham. six inches above, and four inches below the joint. At each ex- tremity of the longitudinal cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two flaps, the one being turned outwards and the other inwards. Seek the In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves and vessels, viz., one