NERVES OF THE TELYIS. 567 / Branches. Most of the branches arise outside the pelvis, and are distributed to the back of the lower limb ; for, only two internal pelvic muscles (pyriformis and obturator internus) receive nerves from it. The nerve of the obturator internus springs from the part of the plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral with the first sacral nerve ; it leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winding over the ischial spine of the hip bone and through the small sacro-sciatic notch, enters the muscle on the perineal surface. The nerves of the pyri- formis are commonly two in number, and arise from separate points of the plexus : they enter the muscle at its visceral aspect. The pudic nerve, like the artery of the same name, supplies the perinasum, and the genital organs. The nerve arises- in the lower part of the plexus, and courses over the small sacro-sciatic ligament, to ac- company its artery through the small sacro-sciatic notch. The remaining branches of the plexus, viz., the small and great sciatic nerves, and muscular offsets to the gluteus, gemelli, and quadratus femoris, are described with the lower limb. (Dissection of the Buttock, p. G46.) Dissection. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic that lies in front of the sacrum may be examined now : its several ganglia (three or four), and their branches, will come into view on the removal of the areolar tissue. Sympathetic Nerve. In the pelvis the sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord, and of a plexus on each side. The Gangliated Cord (fig. 175) lies on the front of the sacrum and internal to the series of apertures in that bone. Inferiorly it Branches to muscles inside the pelvis : one to ob- turator, Pudic nerve. now seen at its origin. Branches to the lower limb after. Trace out the sympa- thetic. Sympathetic in the pelvis. The gan- gliated cord * Dissection of the sacral nerves and plexus (altered from Henle). a. Urinary bladder, b. Rectum, c. Levator ani. d. Coccygeus. Nerves: 4 I and 5 Z, the last two lumbar nerves, which form by their union the lumbo- sacral cord. 1 S to 5 S, the five sacral nerves, forming the sacral plexus. 1 c. Coccygeal nerve. 1. Upper gluteal nerve. 2. Branch of levator ani. 3. Branch to the bladder. 4. Branch of coccygeus. 5. Branch to the peri- nseum. 6. Common branch of 4 S, 5 S. and 1 c, for the back of the coccyx.