728 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Blood-ves- sels, with large meshes and pigment cells exter- nally : capillaries internally. Structure of ciliary pro- the exterior and interior of the fibrous web the vessels ramify, with the following difference in their arrangement. At the outer part (fig. 229) the larger branches of both arteries and veins are situate ; and the veins Qi) form curves (vasa vorticosa) as they end in four or five chief efferent trunks. In the interspaces of the vessels are the ramified pigment cells (fig. 228, A), which contain a nucleus and molecular grains of dark brown colouring matter. At the interior of the fibrous web the vessels form a net- work of capillaries without pigment cells, and with meshes smaller than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less towards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the choroidal coat is described sometimes as a separate layer (tunica Ruyschiana). In the ciliary processes there is a similar texture of ramified bloodvessels, though with larger capillary meshes than in the Fig. 229.* Ciliary muscle. Radiating and choroid ; and towards the free ends the intermixed pigment cells lose their colouring matter. Ciliary muscle (fig. 229). In the eye from which the sclerotic coat has been removed, the white band of the ciliary muscle (e) (annulus albidus), may be seen in its natural position outside the front of the choroid coat. It consists of unstriated fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about -^th of an inch wide, on the surface of the choroid coat (fig. 229, e) ; there are two sets of fibres in it, radiating and circular :— The radiating or superficial, arise in front from the sclerotic coat (fig. 225, a), and the fibres of the posterior elastic layer of the * View of the front of the choroidal coat and iris—external surface (Zinn). —a. Sclerotic, cut, and reflected, b. Choroid coat. c. Iris. d. Circular, e. Radiating fibres of ciliary muscle. /. Ciliary nerves, and g. ciliary arteries between the two outer coats, h. Veins of the choroid coat.