SURFACE MARKING IN FEMALE. 433 the urethra through the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Parts to be avoided. In the first incisions in the ischio-rectal fossa, Parts to be the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the JJ^un? ai° intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it; and if the gut is not held out of the way with the fore finger of the left hand. The pudic pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be vessels, wounded near the anterior part of the hollow, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament ; but, posteriorly, they are securely lodged inside the projection of the tuber ischii. Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the artery of artery of the bulb lies immediately in front of the knife, and will be wounded if the incisions are made too far forwards ; but the vessel must almost necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should recto-vesical not be incised to a greater extent than is necessary for the extraction fascia> of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perineum from the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened, andacces- Too large an incision through the prostate may wound also an unusual |°teryUdic accessory pudic artery on the side of that body. Directions. When the dissection of the peringeum is completed, Directions, the flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after salt has been used, and the limbs are to be put down for the examination of the abdomen. Section II. PERISTEUM OF THE FEMALE. The perinaaum in the female differs from that in the male more perinseum in the external form than the internal anatomy. On the surface it of female has special parts distinguishing it, viz., the aperture of the vagina, has special and the vulva with the labia. parts. Surface marking. In the middle line, there are the two apertures Along of the anus and vulva, which are separated from one another by an ^J^tSes of interval of about an inch. The anus is situate rather farther back anus and than in the male. And the vulva with the labia majora on the sides is placed in the situation of the scrotum of the other sex. Within the vulva at the upper part, is the clitoris, and two small Parts within membranous folds, labia minora, extend downwards from it. Below vulva- the clitoris is the small aperture of the urethra ; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes partly closed by a thin piece of membrane, the hymen. Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineum are alike Boundaries in both sexes; but in the female the outlet of the pelvis is larger ali£e in . r ° both sexes. than m the male.