563 BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC. tion with the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by supply i mi • ii spmal the side of the apertures m the sacrum. These arteries supply the branches. pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with each other, as well as with the middle sacral. A small spinal branch enters each aperture in the sacrum. The gluteal artery (fig. 174, m) is a short thick trunk, which Gluteal appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of theartery° internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the dorsum of the hip bone ; and it is transmitted from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein, and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis the artery gives small branches s™a1*, to the contiguous muscles, viz., iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a nutritious artery to the hip bone. B. The branches of the anterior portion of the internal iliac artery Brandies of anterior are the following :— part. The vesical arteries, superior and inferior, are distributed to the Vesical coats of the bladder. ' arteries; The upper, three or four in number, arise at intervals from the upper, partly obliterated hypogastric trunk ; the lowest of these is some- times called middle vesical branch. Offsets are furnished from middle, those branches to the body and upper part of the bladder. The fower artery arises from the internal iliac in common with a and lower, branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculaa seminales, and the prostate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens. The branch to the rectum (middle hemorrhoidal) is commonly with an supplied by the inferior vesical. It is spent on the anterior and rectum, lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anastomoses with the hasmorrhoidal arteries. The obturator artery (fig. 174,1c). This branch is directed forwards Obturator below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture in the top of the courses thyroid foramen : passing through that opening it ends in two branches, which ramify on the membrane closing the thyroid fora- men, and lie beneath the muscle in that situation. In the pelvis ^^jf."1 the artery has its companion nerve above, and vein below it ; and it gives origin to the following small branches. Iliac branch: this small offset enters the iliac fossa to supply the iliac branch, bone and the iliacus muscle ; it anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. The pubic branch (fig. 139,/) ascends on the posterior aspect of pubic the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the ran " opposite side, and with an offset from the epigastric artery. Sometimes the obturator may take origin from the external iliac artery. The sciatic artery (fig. 174, n) is the next largest branch to the Sciatic gluteal, and is continued over the pyriformis muscle and the sacral artery plexus to the sacro-sciatic notch, where it issues between the in the pelvis, pyriformis and the coccygeus muscles. External to the pelvis it divides into branches beneath the gluteus maximus, and is distri- and outside co2 1%'