INTERCOSTAL VEINS. 363 layer ; but near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper boundary. Accompanying the artery are the intercostal vein and nerve,—the with vein vein being commonly above, and the nerve below it; but in the and nerve* upper spaces the nerve is, at first, higher than the artery. Below the true ribs the vessels are contained partly in the thoracic Anterior and partly in the abdominal wall. Behind they have the same i^f1 of course and connections as the higher intercostals ; but in the wall enters wall of the abdomen they lie between the two deep muscles ; they will of abdomen, be noticed hereafter (p. 453). Branches are furnished to the intercostal and abdominal muscles, sets, and to the ribs. About the centre (from front to back) of the inter- costal space a superficial twig arises, which accompanies the cuta- neous nerve. The highest artery of the aortic set of intercostals anastomoses Anasto- with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery ; and the lowest (below the last rib) enters the abdominal wall, and anastomoses with the lumbar arteries (p. 544). The posterior branch turns backwards between a vertebra and an Posterior ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in the Back tarns to (p. 397). As it passes by the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a tne back- small spinal branch to the vertebrae and the spinal cord. (See Vessels op the Spinal Cord.) The intercostal vein resembles closely the artery in its course and intercostal branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal branch, and then joins an azygos vein. The superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk (p. 71) ^£co°stal descends over the neck of the first rib, external to the ganglion of the sympathetic, and supplies a branch to the first intercostal space : 8^jfjf8 one continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like manner, it spaces, anastomoses with the upper aortic branch. Its intercostal offsets divide into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries from the aorta. The vein accompanying the artery opens into the innominate vein Its vein of the same side. The left superior intercostal vein (fig. 105, i), on the right formed by branches from the two or three highest spaces, is joined g^sleft by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta. The intercostal or azygos veins are two in number on the left Th™e side and one on the right, and receive branches corresponding with veins, the offsets furnished by the thoracic aorta. The right or larger azygos (fig. 106,3) begins in the lumbar veins Large on the right side of the spine ; and its origin is described with the right side of vessels of the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic sPiue> opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the thoracic duct, over the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebrae. Opposite the fourth intercostal space the vein arches forwards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior ^ g cava as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are very in- superior complete, so that blood may flow either way ; and the intraspinal cava* and intercostal veins may be injected through it.