AURICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. 345 which are received into the notches of the fibrous ring, being joined thereto by fibrous tissue ; and the junction between the two is strengthened externally by the outer arterial coat and the peri- cardium, and internally by the endocardium. Behind the aortic aperture, between it and the auriculo-ventricular orifices, is a piece of Jibro-cartilage, with which the fibrous rings are united. The muscular fibres belong to the involuntary class, though marked with transverse strise, and form concentric layers, which enclose the cardiac cavities. In the auricles the fibres are separate from those in the ventricles. In the wall of the auricles the fibres are mostly transverse (fig. 102, a), and are best marked near the ventricles, though they form there but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities. Besides this set there are an- Fig. 102.* nular fibres around the append- ages of the auricles, and the endings of the different veins. Lastly a few oblique fibres (c and cT) pass upwards over the auricles both in front and behind. Dissection. The auricles hav- ing been learnt, separate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-ventricular rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by removing all the fat from the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pul- monary), and from the ante- rior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart let the student note that the anterior surface is to be recognised by the fibres turning in at the septum, with the exception of a small band at the base a third of an inch wide ; and that at the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. Separate partly the ventricles in front along the septum by dividing the band near the base, and sinking the knife for about an inch into the groove between them. Disjoin then the aorta and pulmonary artery along the middle line, so as to leave one attached to each ventricle as in fig. 103. To show the laminar composition of the left ventricle divide its Muscular fibres of the auricles. /. Inferior cava, and e, superior cava of the right auricle, g. Right, and h, left pulmonary veins of the left auricle. a. Transverse fibres of the right, and b, transverse fibres of the left auricle, entering the septum auricularum. c. Oblique fibres of the left, and d, of the right auricle. Annular fibres surround the auricula and the veins. Fibro-carti- lage. Muscular substance of heart. Disposition in the auricles, Partly separate ventricles. To show layers of left ventricle.