FASCIA LUMBORUM 385 it covers the posterior surface of the teres, but nearer the humerus it turns round the lower border, and is inserted in front of that Forms muscle. Between the angle of the scapula and the humerus the ^}Jary latissimus enters into the posterior boundary of the axilla. Dissection of fascia lumborum. After the latissimus dorsi has been Direction reflected, the dissector of the abdomen can look to the disposition offa^^ of the posterior tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lum- borum) between the last rib and the innominate bone. In the spot referred to are portions of the external and internal oblique muscles, left in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen. After the removal of those muscles the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves :—one, the last dorsal with an artery near the last rib : and the other, the ilio-hypogastric with its vessels (p. 544), close to the iliac crest. Two offsets are prolonged backwards from the fascia to the trans- show two verse processes. To see the more superficial layer which passes frr00^eitses beneath the erector spinas to the apices of the processes, the latis- simus dorsi is to be cut through (both its aponeurosis and fleshy superficial fibres) by a horizontal incision directed outwards from the spinous processes, on a level with the third lumbar vertebra. On raising the outer border of the erector spinas muscle which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After dividing transversely this first prolongation, another muscle and deep, (quadratus lumborum) will be seen ; and on raising its outer border the second thin offset of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The fascia lumborum (fig. 136, c) is the posterior aponeurosis or Fascia tendon of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and occupies the in- lumbormn terval between the last two ribs and the crest of the hip bone. By its cutaneous surface it gives attachment to the internal oblique muscle, and sometimes to the external oblique. The last dorsal (*) and ilio-hypogastric (2) nerves, accompanied by vessels, pierce it in their course from the abdomen. From the hinder part of the has tw0 off. aponeurosis two offsets are prolonged to the transverse processes sets behind, of the lumbar vertebras, and enclose the quadratus lumborum in a sheath. The more superficial of the two is the strongest ; it lies beneath superficial, the erector spinas in this position of the body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse processes, but it also fills the intervals between them : at the outer border of the erector spinas it blends with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi and inferior serratus. The deeper or anterior prolongation passes on the abdominal sur- and deep, face of the quadratus lumborum, and is fixed to the tips and borders of the transverse processes. In like manner the erector spinas lies in another sheath, which which form is formed by the vertebral aponeurosis and the tendons of the ^^J^01 latissimus and serratus on the one side, and by the superficial of the two prolongations of the fascia lumborum on the other. * Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 116). This stratum contains the second