STRUCTURE OF PERICARDIUM. 333 followed on the heart. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in injecting the body. The pericardium is larger than the viscus it contains. Somewhat Pericar- conical in form, the wider part of the bag is turned towards the dmm' diaphragm, and the narrower part upwards to the large vessels of fjrm"^ the heart. Occupying the interpleural space, it is situate behind the sternum, Position, and projects below on each side of that bone, but much more to- wards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie in contact with it. Its anterior and posterior surfaces correspond with Connec- the objects in the interpleural space ; and on the anterior aspecttlons- the bag is partly covered by the margins of the lungs, especially the left. The heart-case consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined in- j^posi" ternally by a serous membrane. The fibrous part surrounds the heart entirely, and is pierced by Fibrous part the different vessels of that organ : it gives prolongations around fheaths to the vessels, and the strongest of these sheaths is on the aorta. Life- vessels riorly it is united by fibres to the central tendon of the diaphragm. This membrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of its striic- fibres crossing in different directions, many being longitudinal. ture# When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be discernible. The serous sac lines the interior of the fibrous pericardium, and Serous is reflected over the surface of the heart. Like other serous mem- ^^Jusines branes, the arachnoid for example, it has a parietal and a visceral part. After lining the interior of the fibrous case, to which it gives and covers the shining appearance, the membrane is conducted to the surface heart26 of of the heart by the different vessels. As it is reflected on the aorta and the pulmonary artery it contains those vessels in one tube, not peculiarities passing between their contiguous surfaces; and at the posterior i^its reflec- part of the pericardium it forms a pouch between the pulmonary veins of opposite sides. In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer forms a Vestigial vertical band, the vestigial fold of the pericardium (Marshall), which includes the remains of the left innominate vein of the fetus. On separating the pulmonary artery from the bronchus, the band will be better seen. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the aorta, the Vessels, internal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. Nerves. According to Luschka the pericardium receives nerves Nerves, from the phrenic, sympathetic, and right vagus. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular viscus, and is the agent in the The heart propulsion of the blood through the body. Into it, as the centre 1S 10 ow* of the vascular system, veins enter ; and from it the arteries issue.