147 OTIC GANGLION. distance, behind, lies the large meningeal artery. In this ganglion, structure, as in the others connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are fur- nished by it to muscles. Connecting branches—roots. The ganglion is joined by a fasciculus Branches from the motor part of the inferior maxillary nerve, and is closely jfj-h1* Wlt] Fig. 36.* united with the branch of that nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, thus receiving two of its roots, motor and sensory, from the fifth nerve. Its connection with the sympathetic is established by sympa- a twig from the plexus on the large meningeal artery.-)- thetic. Branches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves from the other otic ganglion, viz. tensor tympani and circumflexus palati. The nerve hes to the tensor tympani, 3, is directed backwards, and enters the bony muscles, canal containing that muscle. The branch for the circumflexus, 6, arising from the front of the ganglion, may be supposed to be derived from the internal pterygoid nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle, 5, arises from the inner Nerve of side of the inferior maxillary nerve near the skull, and penetrates pterygoid, the deep surface of the muscle. This branch is joined by a fasciculus from the motor root of the fifth nerve. Directions. The remainder of the pterygo-maxillary region of the Directions, left side may be now examined. * Inner view of the otic ganglion, a. Tensor tympani muscle, b. Internal pterygoid muscle with its nerve entering it. c. External carotid artery with the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Branch of Jacobson's nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining gustatory. 5. Nerve to pterygoideus internus. 6. Nerve of tensor palati. 7. Auriculo-temporal nerve. f Further, the ganglion is said to be connected with the tympanic nerve (of the glossopharyngeal) by means of the small superficial petrosal nerve, 2, joining the posterior part. L 2