450 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Linea semi- lunaris is at edge of rectus. Pyramidalis muscle. Attachment. Use. Nerves in wall of abdomen. Intercostal nerves are between oblique and transver- salis: offsets. Last dorsal nerve. Branches of lumbar plexus. Ilio-hypo- gastric lies near iliac crest; cutaneous branch. third midway between the two. If there is a fourth it will be placed below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole depth or breadth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and below. Linea semilunaris (fig. 137). This line corresponds with the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches from the eighth rib to the pubic spine of the hip-bone : it marks the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The pyramidalis muscle (fig. 137) is triangular in form, and is placed in front of the rectus near the pelvis. The muscle arises by its base from the front of the pubes, and is inserted into the linea alba about midway between the umbilicus and the pelvis. This small muscle is often absent. Action. The muscle renders tight the linea alba ; and when large it may assist slightly the rectus in compressing the viscera. Nerves of the abdominal wall (fig. 136). Between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are situate the intercostal nerves; and near the pelvis are two branches of the lumbar plexus. Some arteries accompany the nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 453). The lower six intercostal nerves (fig. 136 f f j"), enter the wall of the abdomen from the intercostal spaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and through this muscle to the surface of the abdomen near the middle line (p. 439). About midway between the spine and the linea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous branches to the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous, p. 438) ; and whilst between the abdominal muscles they supply muscular branches, and offsets of communication with one another. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is visible, owing to the shortness of the last intercostal spaces. The last dorsal nerve (*) is placed below the twelfth rib, and therefore not in an intercostal space, but it has connections and a distribution like the preceding. As it extends forwards to the rectus it communicates sometimes with the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles (p. 439). Two branches of the lumbar plexus, viz., ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal, are contained for a certain distance between the muscles of the wall of the abdomen, as they course forwards to the surface of the body. The ilio-hypogastric nerve (2) perforates the back of the trans- versalis muscle near the iliac crest, and gives off the iliac branch. The nerve is then directed forwards above the hip bone, and is connected with its companion (ilio-inguinal). Perforating the fleshy part of the internal oblique near the front of the iliac crest, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique near the linea alba, the nerve becomes cutaneous (p. 439). Its iliac branch pierces both oblique muscles close to the crista ilii, to reach the gluteal region (p. 638).