503 STRUCTURE OF THE COLON. Ileo-ccecal valve (fig. 153). This valve is situate at the entrance situation of of the ileum into the caecum. It is composed of two pieces, each the valve; with a different inclination, which project into the interior of the j^itpieces caecum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of com- munication between the two differentty-sized portions of the alimen- tary canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo-colic (e), projects horizontally Oneileo- into the large intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum with the collc' colon. And the lower piece, ileo-ccecal (/), which is the larger of the other the two, has a vertical direction between the ileum and the caecum, ileo-csecal; At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended j^e/at together ; and the resulting prominence (g) extends transversely the ends, on each side of the intestine, forming the frcena or retinacula of the and form valve. fr8ena' The size of the opening is altered by the distension of the Opening in intestine ; for when the retinacula of the valve are stretched the the valve' margins of the aperture are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is formed by circular muscular fibres of The valve a the intestinal tube, covered by mucous membrane ; as if the ileum ^hTwaii011 was thrust obliquely through the wall of the caecum, after being of the gut, deprived of its peritoneal coat and the layer of longitudinal fibres. This construction is easily seen on a fresh specimen by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and gently draAving out the ileum from the caecum. The opening of the appendix into the caecum (d) is placed below Appendix that of the ileum. The mucous membrane partly closes the aperture, opens mto 1 J * ' caecum. and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of the gut, Kidges in and correspond with depressions on the outer surface : these folds 16 C8ecum' result from the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest how , , & 5 & formed. enclose vessels. Structure of the Colon. The coats of the large are similar to ?0^11estl:qJ[l those of the small intestine, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and 0f the gut. mucous. Serous coat. The peritoneum does not clothe the large intestine, Serous coat throughout, in the same degree. It covers the front of the caecum, tm?mtes-nS and the front and sides of the ascending and descending colon ; but tine, in neither does it reach commonly the posterior aspect (p. 475). The transverse colon is incased like the stomach, and has intervals along the borders, where the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and circular fibres, Two layers as in the small intestine. fibres^ The longitudinal fibres may be traced as a thin layer over the l011„itiulinal surface, but most are collected into three longitudinal bands, about in three . « hands a quarter of an inch in width. On the vermiform appendix the wllioll'are fibres form a uniform layer ; but they are continued thence into spread out the bands on the caecum and colon : on the rectum they are dif- ^a^tum* fused over the surface. When the bands are divided the intestine