ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. CI the neck. Above, at the base of the space, will be the lower jaw, the skull, and the ear ; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin, the superficial fascia with the platysma, the deep fascia, and the ramifications of the facial and superficial cervical nerves. Muscles in the space. In the area of the triangular interval, as it Contents of is above defined, are seen the larynx, and pharynx in part, and the space' many muscles converging towards the hyoid bone as a centre, some being above and some below it. Below are the depressors of that bone, viz. omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, 2 to 4 ; and above the os hyoides are the elevator muscles, viz. mylo-hyoid, digastric, and stylo-hyoid. Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are some of the constrictor muscles of the gullet. Vessels in the triangular space. The carotid blood-vessels, 6 and 7, Carotid occupy the hinder and deeper part of the space along the side of spaced ° the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and their course would be marked on course, the surface by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the jaw and the mastoid process. As high coverings, as the level of the cricoid cartilage they are buried beneath the depressor muscles of the os hyoides ; but beyond that spot they are covered by the superficial layers over the space, and by the sterno-mastoid muscle which, before it is displaced, conceals the vessels as far as the parotid gland. For a short distance after its exit from beneath the depressor Bifurcation, muscles of the os hyoides, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk, 6 ; but opposite the upper border of the thyroid carti- lage it divides into two large vessels, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these trunks are continued onwards, beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the vessel destined for the Position of internal parts of the head (internal carotid) being the more posterior J^o*™1^ or external of the two ; but above the digastric muscle it becomes another, deeper than the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the neck and the outer part Branches, of the head, viz. some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear; and others upwards to the head. But the common carotid does not always divide, as here said. Changes in For the point of branching of the vessel may be moved from the division off upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or down- carotid, wards, so that the trunk may remain undivided till it is beyond the os hyoides, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trunk (though very rarely), furnishing offsets to the neck and head. In close contact with the outer side of both the common and the Jugular internal carotid artery, and incased in a sheath of fascia with them, vem is the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches in the