576 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. dimensions and shape; diameter. On the floor is a crest: in the crest is a pouch. Vesicula projects into the prostate quarter in length, and is altogether the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement at the neck of the bladder is a quarter of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. Separating this part of the passage from the bladder is the emi- nence of the uvula vesicas with its slight ridge. In front of this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining (d), about three quarters of an inch in length, and larger behind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (vera montanum, caput gallinaginis) : it is formed like the uvula by a bundle of the sub- mucous muscular and fibrous tissues. In that crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is a slight hollow (e) named vesicula prostatica or sinus ^ocularis. The vesicula prostatica or utricle (fig. 178, g) is directed back- wards and' downwards in the prostate, for a quarter of an inch, Fig. 178.* passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes. Its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity and by its is about as large again. Along the wall, on each side, is placed ejacuiatory6 tne common seminal duct (/), which terminates on or within the ducts. margin of the mouth of the sac ; and if bristles are introduced into the common seminal duct behind the prostate, they will render evident the apertures. Small glands open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle. The vesicula is the remains of the united lower ends of the ducts of Miiller in the fetus, and represents the uterus in the female. * Section through the bladder, prostate, and urethra, to show the vesicula prostatica and the common seminal duct. a. Bladder, b. Prostate, and cy prostatic part of the urethra, d. Vesicula seminalis. c. Vas deferens. /. Common ejaculatory duct. g. Vesicula prostatica.