330 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. CONNECTIONS OF THE LUNGS. Number and use. Form. touches diaphragm : shape and level. Apex is in the neck. Anterior edge is thin: position on right and left side. Posterior edge is thick. External surface. Internal surface gives attach- ment to the root. Division into lobes. Left has two, and the right three lobes. The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavity of the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. The lung is of a somewhat conical form, and takes it shape from the space in which it is lodged. It is unattached, except at the inner side where the vessels enter ; and it is covered by the bag of the pleura. Its base and apex, borders and surfaces can be dis- tinguished by differences in form : it is divided also into lobes by fissures ; and it has a root formed out of its vessels and nerves. The base of the lung is hollowed in the centre and thin at the circumference, and fits on the convexity of the diaphragm. Follow- ing the shape of that muscle, it is sloped obliquely from before backwards, and reaches in consequence much lower posteriorly than anteriorly. Its position with respect to the wall of the thorax may be ascertained externally by taking the level of the diaphragm as a guide (p. 327) ; and it will be a rib's breadth lower in front on the left, than on the right side (fig. 97). The apex is rounded, and projects an inch to an inch and a half above the first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the sub- clavian artery. The anterior edge or border is thin, and overlays in part the peri- cardium. On the right side it lies along the middle of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage (fig. 97). On the left side it reaches the mid-line of the chest as low as the fourth costal carti- lage ; but below that spot it presents a V-shaped notch (fig. 97), whose apex is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib. Two fissures are seen in the border of the right lung, but only one in that of the left. The posterior border is as long again as the anterior, and projects inferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm ; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column. The outer surface of the lung is convex, and is in contact with the wall of the thorax : a large cleft divides it into two pieces (lobes of the lung), and on the right side there is a second smaller fissure. The inner surface is flat when compared with the outer : altogether in front is the hollow corresponding with the heart and its large vessels, which is greatest on the left lung ; and behind this, but nearer the posterior than the anterior border, is a fissure about three inches long, liilum pulmonis, which receives the vessels of the root of the lung. Each lung is divided incompletely into two pieces or lobes by an oblique fissure, which begins near the apex, and ends in the anterior border near the base : from the form of the lung and the direction of the fissure, the lower lobe is necessarily the largest. In the right lung a second horizontal fissure is directed forwards from the middle of the oblique one to the anterior border, and cuts off a small tri- angular piece from the upper lobe : this is the third lobe of the