SUB-OCCIPITAL NEKVE. 113 descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric crosses muscle in the anterior triangular space ; from this spot it is tongue;;t0 •directed inwards to the tongue and its muscles. Connecting branches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united branches bj branches with the vagus nerve, the two being inseparably vagus,6 joined. Eather lower down the nerve is connected by offsets with the sympa- sympathetic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. spfnai'^ The branches for distribution have been met with in the fore- ana SUpply going dissections. Thus in the neck it supplies, in union with the muscles, spinal nerves, the depressors of the hyoid bone (p. 76). In the •submaxillary region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio- hyoid) of the os hyoides, to the extrinsic muscles of the tongue except the palato- and pharyngeo-glossus (p. 99) ; and to all the intrinsic of the tongue. Dissection.—The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, between Dissection the transverse process of the atlas and the base of the skull, is £4eraiisS now to be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms a loop on the atlas, - is to be found. The rectus capitis lateralis (fig. 25) is small and thin, and Rectus represents an intertransverse muscle. It arises from the anterior lateralis transverse process, and the tip of the united transverse processes transverse of the atlas ; and is inserted into the jugular eminence of the muscle, occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the -jugular vein : and in contact Parts with the posterior is the vertebral artery. To the inner side lies arouncu the anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in Use. inclining the head laterally. Dissection. For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior Dissection branch of the first cervical nerve divide the rectus lateralis muscle, nerve* and observe the offset to it ; then cut off the end of the lateral mass of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. The anterior primary branch of the first or sub-occipital nerve is Sub-occipi- slender in size, and arises from the common trunk on the neuraltal nerve arch of the atlas. From that spot it is directed forwards on the lies on atlas, arch, beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the rectus lateralis : here it bends down in front of the lateral mass of the atlas and forms a loop with the second cervical nerve. As the nerve forms a loop passes forwards it supplies the rectus lateralis muscle, and branches witn secona- connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic Branches, nerves. Sympathetic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic nerve consists, Sympathetic on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral neck m column, and is continued into the thorax. On this portion of the has three nerve are thre ganglia :—One near the skull, another on the neck ganSlia- of the first rib, and a third somewhere between the two ; these are named respectively superior, inferior, and middle ganglion. From