ABDOMINAL AOETA AND BRANCHES. 533 the inner border of the psoas the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, along with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands ; and somewhat below the pelvic part of the muscle the obturator nerve may be recognised. External to the psoas is the quadratus quadratic lumborum, and crossing it near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, lumb°l 11111 with an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the iliacus muscle and iliacus. which unites below with the large psoas. The abdominal aorta (fig. 169, b) extends from the last dorsal Extent of vertebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, 16 a01 * where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm, and its termination is placed on the left side of the umbilicus, and nearly on a level with the highest point of the crest of the hip-bone. The chief connections of the vessel with surrounding parts have connec- been before referred to (p. 482), but some deep vessels in relation tlons with it come now into view. As the aorta lies on the spine it rests on the left lumbar veins, which end in the inferior cava. And with ,deeP vessels. between it and the right crus of the diaphragm lie the vena azygos major, and the thoracic duct. Along the sides of the vessel are the lumbar lymphatic glands, from which large vessels run beneath it to end in the beginning of the thoracic duct. The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following Place of order :—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which baches^ leave the sides of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm, the single trunk of the coeliac axis arises from the front; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the front, the trunk of the superior mesen- teric artery begins. Half an inch lower the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the lateral part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the small capsular branch; and below the renal is the spermatic artery. From the front of the arterial trunk, one or two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery; and from the angle of division the small middle sacral artery runs downwards. Four small lumbar branches on each side come from the posterior aspect of the vessel, opposite the bodies of the lumbar vertebras. The branches may be classified into two sets—one to the viscera their classi- of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdominal wall (parietal). The visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and inferior mesen- Some ^ teric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. This set has been examined, branches, except the renal, capsular, and spermatic. The renal arteries (fig. 169, c) leave the aorta nearly at a right Renal angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney arter>'' each divides into four or five branches, which enter the renal sub- stance between the vein and the ureter. Each artery lies beneath is beneath its vein; common iliac vein, and r, external iliac (this letter is put on the left artery instead of the vein just below it), s. Ureter. Nerves : 1. Phrenic. 2. Ilio hypogastric. 3. Ilio-inguinal. 4. External cutaneous of the thigh. 5 and 6. Genito-crural. 7. Anterior crural.