FORE PART OF NECK. 50 the inner fibres of opposite muscles cross for about an inch, but those which are superficial do not belong always to the same side in different bodies. Action. The ordinary action of this muscle is confined to the skin Use on skin, of the neck, which it throws into longitudinal wrinkles ; but when acting strongly it can depress the corner of the mouth by the slip mouth, prolonged to the face. Through its attachment to the jaw it will jaw. assist in opening the mouth. Dissection. Eaise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and dissect Dissection, out beneath it the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cervical branches of the facial nerve. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck, and the anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its origin in ?^^jial the cervical plexus to its position on the deep fascia of the neck nerve, (p. 57); the nerve may take origin from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it divides into an ascending and a descending branch :— The ascending branch perforates the platysma, supplying it, and ascending, ends in the integuments over the anterior triangle, about half way down the neck. Whilst this branch is beneath the platysma it joins the facial nerve. The descending branch likewise passes through the platysma, and ^n^dllis is distributed to the teguments below the preceding, reaching as low as the sternum. The infra-maxillary branches of the facial or seventh cranial nerve Branches of (rami subcutanei colli) (p. 38) pierce the deep cervical fascia, and to^he^eck! pass forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the side of the neck (fig. 9), which reach as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the muscle there is a com- munication between the branches of the facial and the offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the Dissection, middle, and throw the ends up and down. Afterwards the super- ficial nerves of the neck may be divided in a line with the angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may be cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cervical fascia in front of the sterno- Cervical mastoideus is stronger than that behind the muscle (p. 53), and has fronto? the following arrangement. Near the sternum the fascia forms a white firm membrane, which is attached to that bone ; but higher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed to the lower jaw and the zygoma, covering also the parotid gland. From the ramus of the jaw a piece is prolonged deeply, between the parotid and sub- maxillary glands, to join the styloid process ; this piece is named the stylo-maxillary ligament. And from the angle of the jaw a forms stylo- strong piece is continued to the sterno-mastoideus, which fixes KSjJJjJjf forwards the anterior border of that muscle.