495 COATS OF SMALL INTESTINE. mouth by columnar epithelium (fig. 147, b) ; but in the closed end by some seCrete flattened and granular nucleated cells, which are named peptic glands, gastric and are supposed to give origin to the gastric fluid. Towards the JmC6' pylorus the tubes are clothed throughout by columnar epithelium some mucus, (fig. 147, a), and secrete mucus. A columnar epithelium covers the surface of the mucous mem- Epithelial brane, and enters the small tubules. °* On the attached surface of the mucous membrane is a thin layer Submucous of involuntary muscular fibres, separating it from the fibrous coat: iayer.ular it is said to send offsets amongst the tubules. Bloodvessels. The arteries of the stomach, after supplying the Arteries, muscular coat, ramify in the submucous tissue ; from this anasto- mosis fine twigs are continued on the tubes to the inner surface of the mucous membrane, where they form a network. The veins begin veins in the mucous membrane, receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliver their blood into the portal system. Lymphatics. Two layers of absorbents, superficial and deep, exist lymphatics, in the stomach : the latter begin in a plexus beneath the tubules, and form a network in the fibrous layer. Both sets leave the stomach with the bloodvessels. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneumo-gastric and sym- and nerves, pathetic (p. 490), and can be followed to the fibrous coat : small ganglia have been observed on them. SMALL INTESTINE. The three portions into which the small intestine is divided, have Characters, the following characters :— The duodenum measures as much as the breadth of twelve fingers, Length viz. about ten inches, and is more fixed than the rest of the intes- tinal tube. It is wider than either the jejunum or the ileum, and size, and its muscular coat is also thicker. Into it the common bile and giickness. Ducts pancreatic ducts pour their contents. entering it. The jejunum and the ileum together measure about twenty feet Length, in length, and are connected with the mesentery. There is not any perceptible difference between the termination of the one and the Division, commencement of the other, but two fifths of the length are as- signed to the jejunum, and three fifths to the ileum. Between the Differences ends, however, a marked difference may be perceived ; for the upper at the ends* part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower end of the ileum, and its width is also greater. Structure. In the small intestine the wall is formed by the same structure, number of layers as in the stomach, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, mucous, and submucous. Dissection. The different layers are to be examined on pieces, Dissection about three inches long, taken from the duodenum, the upper part for it* of the jejunum, and the lower end of the ileum. After the pieces have been cut off, they are to be distended with air; and the serous covering is to be torn off for a short distance, to show the muscular