130 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. tarns around hamular process is deeper than the other. hamular process (fig. 30, 2) ; and is inserted into about one third of an inch of the posterior border of the palate, viz. from the central spine to a projecting point; and blends inferiorly with the aponeu- rosis of the velum. As the tendon winds round the bone, it is thrown into folds; and between the two is a bursa. In the soft palate it lies beneath the Fig. 30.* Use in palate, on tube. Palatoglos- sus. Attach- ments. Connec- tions. Use: tongue fixed. Palato-pha- levator muscle. The Eustachian tube is directed inwards between this muscle and the preceding. Action. Acting from the skull the muscle will fix and make tense the lateral part of the soft palate; but its movements will be very limited, seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. If the soft palate is fixed by the depressor muscles, the levator and tensor, and the salpingo-pharyngeus, taking their fixed points below, open the Eustachian tube in swallowing. The palatoglossus muscle (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior arch, I, of the soft palate. It is connected inf eriorly with the lateral surface and the dorsum of the tongue ; from this spot the fibres ascend before the tonsil to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus narrows the isthmus of the fauces ; the muscles of opposite sides moving inwards towards each other, and separating from the mouth the morsel to be swallowed. When the tongue is fixed the muscle will render tense and draw down the soft palate. The palato-pharyngeus is much larger in size than the preceding, * 1. Azygos uvulae. 2. Tensor palati. 3. Levator palati. 4. Palato- pharyngeus—upper end. 5. External pterygoid.