LIVER AND SPLEEN CONNECTIONS. 471 crest of the hip bone to the sacro-iliac articulation, where it ends in the rectum. It is concealed by the small intestine, which is directed more to the left than the right side. The rectum, or the termination of the large intestine, which is Rectum, contained in the pelvis, will be examined in the dissection of that cavity. The liver (fig. 140, c. d) is situate in the right hypochondriac, and Sj^jj^JJof epigastric regions, and reaches slightly into the left hypochondriac. Pieces of peritoneum (ligaments) retain it in place. The upper surface, convex, is turned to the vault of the diaphragm, Surfaces, and is divided into two by the suspensory ligament (e) ; the upper right portion, more prominent than the left, reaches to the level of the fifth intercostal space. The under surface is in contact with and under, the stomach and the duodenum, with the ascending colon, and with the right kidney and suprarenal body ; attached to this surface is a fold of the peritoneum (small omentum), containing the hepatic vessels and nerves. The anterior border is thin, and lies in the adult male usually ^°^?rJ» within the margin of the ribs, but in women and children it reaches below that line. The gall bladder projects beyond this edge. The posterior border is thick, and is connected to the diaphragm by and poste- certain ligaments or pieces of the peritoneum ; it lies on the large rior- vessels (aorta and cava) and on the pillars of the diaphragm. The liver changes its situation with, the ascent and descent of Position is the diaphragm in respiration ; for in inspiration it descends, and in ^iaphra^-m^ expiration it regains its former level. In the upright and sitting "by posture postures, too, this viscus descends lower than in the horizontal con- ofl:)ody' dition of the body ; so that when the trunk is erect, the anterior border may be felt underneath the edge of the ribs, but when the body is reclined it is withdrawn within the margin of the thorax. The connections of the liver with the surrounding parts may be *n^y dis- changed by the growth of tumours, by collections of fluid in the parts, chest or in the abdomen, or by constricting the space for its lodgment, as in tight lacing. The spleen (fig. 140, m) lies deeply in the left hypochondrium, |^Ugpjggnof between the stomach and the ribs, and is connected by peritoneum to the great end of the stomach on the one side, and to the diaphragm on the other. Its position is almost vertical. The outer surface is convex, and touches the diaphragm opposite Surfaces, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. At the inner surface, which is andi^ner concave, the vessels enter (fig. 506), and to it is attached a process of peritoneum, the gastro-splenic omentum: the part in front of the vessels touches the stomach ; and the part behind them is in contact with the tail of the pancreas, the suprarenal capsule, and the left crus of the diaphragm. Below the spleen is a transverse piece of the peritoneum (pleuro- Below it. colic fold), the kidney, and the beginning of the descending colon. When the stomach is distended the spleen is somewhat behind it. The kidney should be examined on the left side of the body, so Kidney, that the duodenum may not be displaced. In order that it may be