CHAPTER VI. THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBRANES. Cord is con- tained in spinal canal, invested by- membranes. Dissection to show the cord and the membranes. Three mem- branes of the cord, Dura mater surrounds cord loosely, Size of sheath. Connec- tions. Offsets on spinal nerves The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) gives origin to the spinal nerves, and is lodged in the osseous canal bounded by the bodies and neural arches of the vertebrae. It is invested by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, which form sheaths around and support it. Dissection. After all the muscles have been taken from the arches and spines of the vertebras, the spinal canal is to be opened by sawing through the neural arches, on each side, close to the articular processes ; and the cuts of the saw should extend to the lower end of the sacrum, but not higher in the neck than the fourth cervical vertebra. As it is difficult to use the saw in the hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be found useful to complete the division of the vertebral arches. The tube of the dura mater is covered by some veins and fat ; and by a loose areolar tissue containing fluid sometimes, especially at the lower part. The fat may be scraped away with the handle of the scalpel ; and the lateral prolongations of the membrane through the intervertebral foramina are to be defined. Membranes of the Cord (fig. 122). Three membranes, like those on the brain, surround the cord, viz., an external tube of dura mater, an internal sheath of pia mater, and an intervening arachnoid or serous covering. The dura mater (a) is the strongest tube, and is continuous with the membrane lining the interior of the skull. It forms a loose • sheath along the spinal canal, as far as the second or third piece of the sacrum (fig. 121) ; but beyond that point it is continued by a slender impervious cord to the back of the coccyx (fig. 121, b). The capacity of the sheath is greater than is needed for the contents ; and its size is larger in the neck and loins than in the back. On the outer aspect the dura mater is smooth, when a comparison is made between it and that in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the osseous surfaces are some vessels and fat ; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebrae by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dura mater sends offsets along the spinal nerves in the intervertebral foramina : and these several offsets become