LIGAMENTS OF WEIST JOINT. 317 of the carpal bones ; and the surface of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, and an internal square impression. The three carpal bones of the first row constitute a of first row convex eminence (fig. 94), which is received into the hollow before ^es^1 mentioned in this way ;—the scaphoid bone (a) is opposite the Surfaces external mark of the radius ; the semilunar bone (b) touches the touching, square impression, and part or all of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; whilst the cuneiform bone (c) is in contact with the capsule (Henle), and sometimes with part of the fibro-cartilage. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple Synovial joints. This joint communicates occasionally with the lower radio- sac' ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage separating the two. Movement. The wrist is a condyloid articulation, and possesses Kind of angular motion in four different directions, with circumduction. motion. Flexion and extension. In flexion the hand is moved forwards and flexion; inwards, whilst the carpus rolls on the radius from before back, and projects behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In extension extension; the hand is carried backwards and outwards, and the row of carpal bones moves in the opposite direction, viz. from behind forwards, so as to cause the anterior ligament to be tightened. The hinder movement is freer than the forward. Abduction and adduction. The row of carpal bones moves trans- Abduction, versely inward sin the former, and outwards in the latter state ; and the movement is freer towards the ulnar than the radial side. The lateral ligaments are put on the stretch, the inner in abduction §fc^^ts and the outer in adduction ; and the motion is limited on the outer side by the meeting of the styloid process of the radius with the scaphoid bone. Circumduction. The hand describes a cone in this movement, whose Circumduc- apex is at the wrist and base at the digits ; and it moves more freely in extension and adduction than in the opposite directions. Lower Kadio-ulnar Articulation. In this articulation the con- vexity at the end of the ulna is re- ceived into a concavity on the radius ; —an arrangement just the opposite to that between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro-cartilage ; but a kind of capsule consisting of scattered fibres; surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage (fig. 93, c) is placed transversely beneath the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating * The wrist joint opened to show the arch formed by the radius with the uniting fibro-cartilage, c. a. Radius, b. Ulna. tion.