403 LEVATOKES COSTAKUM MUSCLES. the small levatores costarum will be uncovered. The posterior part of the external intercostal muscle will be denuded at the same time. * The levatores costarum are twelve small fan-shaped muscles, Levatores which are connected with the hinder part of the ribs. Each, except costarum- the first, arises from the apex and lower border of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra ; and is inserted, the fibres sjDreading Attach- out, into the upper border of the rib beneath, from the tubercle ments- to the angle. The muscles increase in size from above down, and their fibres have the same direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical The nrst- vertebra, and below to the outer border of the first rib. Some of ^^[or the four lower muscles are continued beyond one rib to that next muscles, succeeding: these longer slips have been named levatores longiores costarum. Action. The muscles raise the hinder part of the ribs, as the name Use. signifies, and the lowermost draw the bones somewhat back. * The external intercostal muscle is continued backwards alone: the 9l'ter x , • l-iiii intercostal ribs as far as the tubercle, and is overlaid by the elevator muscle, muscle. Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches Dissection, of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid bare by this proceeding. * The dorsal nerves split in the intervertebral foramina into anterior Dorsal nerve and posterior primary branches. * The posterior branches are directed backwards, internal to posterior the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and have been examined (p. 396). The anterior, named intercostal, is continued between the ribs to and anterior orancli. the front of the chest: its anatomy is learnt in the dissection of the thorax (p. 369). * The intercostal artery has an almost exact correspondence with intercostal the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution. ar ery. d d 2