DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 4 and connec- tions. Use of an- terior and posterior belly. How to see temporal fascia. Temporal fascia. Attach- ments, connections. and layers. To see tem- poral muscle. Temporal muscle. Origin. Insertion and Use. pericranium only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that it moves freely over the skull. Superficial to the occipito-frontalis are the cutaneous vessels and nerves of the scalp. In front the fleshy fibres of opposite sides are joined above the root of the nose. Action. When the anterior belly contracts it elevates the eye- brow, making smooth the skin at the root of the nose, and wrink- ling transversely that of the forehead ; and continuing to contract, it draws forward the scalp. The posterior belly will move back the scalp; and the bellies acting in succession can carry the hairy scalp forwards and backwards. Dissection. After the removal of the upper auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epicranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attachment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, which is: stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull ; and inferiorly, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygomatic arch. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the edges of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the superficial temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with its artery. Dissection. The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the skull, and to be thrown down to the zygomatic arch, in order that the origin of the underlying temporal muscle may be examined. A soft areolar tissue which lies beneath it near the zygoma is to be taken away. The difference in thickness of parts of the fascia will be evident. The temporal muscle is laid bare only in part. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker at the lower end. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia, and from all the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend, converging to a tendon, which is inserted into the under surface and fore part of the coronoid process of the lower jaw (p. 82). On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts superficial to that membrane ; and concealed by the muscle are the deep temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle underneath the zygomatic arch will be afterwards followed. The temporal belongs to the group of masticatory muscles ; and its action will be referred to with the description of the pterygoid region.