164 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Form. Surfaces. Borders; the upper- most uneven. Arytenoid cartilages. Situation and form. Apex. Three surfaces. Fihro-carti- lages of Santorini. cealed by the shield-like cartilage, below which it is placed. It is very unequal in depth before and behind,—the posterior part being three times deeper than the anterior, something like a signet ring. Its contained space is about as large as the fore finger. The outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to muscles. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square portion, which is marked by a median Fig. 43.* ridge between two contiguous muscular depressions. On each side, immediately in front of the square part, is a shallow arti- cular mark, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mu- cous membrane. The lower border is undulat- ing, and is united to the trachea by fibrous membrane. The upper border is nearly straight posteriorly, opposite the deep part of the ring ; and this por- tion is limited on each side by an articular mark for the ary- tsenoid cartilage. In front of that spot the border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behind there is a slight excava- tion in each border. The two arytenoid cartilages, c, are placed one on each side at the back of the larynx, on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. Each is pyramidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has a slightly hollowed surface behind for articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated in front into a point which gives attachment to the vocal cord. The apex is directed backwards and somewhat inwards, and is surmounted by the carti- lage of Santorini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and flat. The outer is wide and irregular, and on it is a small projection at the base, which receives the insertion of some of the muscles. At the poste- rior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Cartilages of Santorini. Attached to the apex of each arytenoid * Hyoid bone and the laryngeal cartilages : g. Body of the hyoid bone. h. Large cornu. j. Small cornu. A. Epiglottis, b. Thyroid cartilage, c. Arytenoid cartilage, d. Cricoid cartilage, e. Upper cornu, and f. Lower cjvyiu. of the thyroid cartilage.