542 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Two cu- taneous branches. Iliohypo- gastric : course m abdomen. Ilio-inguinal arises with preceding, and accom- panies it. Geni to- crural pierces psoas, and divide into genital and crural branch. Course of external cutaneous to the thigh. Origin of anterior c rural: position in the abdomen ; its branches to iliacus. spermatic cord, the fore part of the thigh, and the inner side of the leg. The first two branches (ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) end as cutaneous nerves of the buttock, lower part of the abdomen, and the scrotum. a. The ilio-hypogastric branch (fig. 170, f) is derived from the first nerve, and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the upper end. It is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen by pene- trating the transversalis abdominis. Its termination in the integu- ments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hypogastric branch, has been already mentioned (p. 450). b. The ilio-inguinal branch (g) arises with the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses out- wards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the crest of the hip bone, where it pierces the transversalis abdo- minis. The farther course of the nerve in the abdominal wall, and its distribution over the scrotum and the groin, are before noticed (p. 451). c. The genito-crural nerve (Ji) is distributed to the cremaster muscle and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop between the first two ; it pierces the fibres of the psoas, and descending on the surface of the muscle divides into the two following pieces. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and the pieces perforate separately the muscle. The cremasteric branch descends on the external iliac artery, and furnishes offsets around it: it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. The crural branch issues beneath Poupart's ligament to supply the integument of the thigh (p. G08). d. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh (i) arises from the second nerve of the plexus, or from the loop between it and the third, and appears about the middle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then crosses the iliacus to the interval between the anterior iliac spinous processes, and leaves the abdomen be- neath Poupart's ligament, to be distributed on the outer aspect of the limb (p. 609). e. The anterior crural nerve (IS) is the largest offset of the plexus, and supplies branches mainly to the extensor muscles of the knee joint, and to the teguments of the front of the thigh and inner side of the leg. Taking origin from the third and fourth nerves, and receiving a fasciculus also from the second, this large trunk appears towards the lower part of the psoas, where it lies between that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen beneath Pou- part's ligament ; but before the final branching in the thigh (p. 628), the nerve sends off the following twigs :— Some small branches are furnished to the iliacus from the outer side of the nerve.