LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 53 Fig. 13.* The sac 5, is situate in the hollow formed by the os unguis and the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Externally it is crossed by the ligament of the eyelids, and is covered by an expan- sion derived from that band, which is fixed to the margin of the bony groove. If the aponeurotic covering be removed, the mucous membrane lining the interior will appear. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct, 6 (ductus ad nasum), is the narrow part of the tube, smd is about half an inch long. It is entirely encased by bone, and corresponds with the ductus ad nasum in the dried skull. In the nasal cavity it opens into the front •of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a piece of the mucous membrane. A bent probe introduced through the nos- tril may be passed into the duct from the meatus, but only with destruction of the valve. As the duct is continuous with the mucous membrane of the nose it has the same structure, viz. a fibrous external layer with a mucous lining. The epithelium of the sac and duct is ciliated as in the nose, but in the lachrymal canals it is scaly. Directions. The examination of the eyeball may be omitted with more advantage to the student till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The description of the eye will be found at page 722. Situation of the sac, or dilated part. Canal lead- ing to the nose. Anatomy of eyeball afterwards. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position. For the dissection of the right side of the neck let the Position of liead be supported on a block of a moderate height, and let the thei)art* face be turned to the left side and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the region, the right arm may be drawn tightly under the body, with the object of depressing the point of the shoulder, and putting the neck on the stretch. In some bodies, owing to a difference in the form of the neck, the best position will be obtained by placing the upper limb over, instead of under the chest. Surface-marking. The side of the neck presents a somewhat Boundaries square outline, and is limited in the following way :—Below is the 0f the neck. * The eyelids and lachrymal apparatus. 1. Pun eta lachrymalia. 2. Upper, and 3, lower lachrymal canal. 4. Caruncula lachrymalis. 5. Lachrymal sac. 6. Lachrymal duct. E 2