51G DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and weight. Extremi- ties ; surfaces ; "borders. Contents of the fissure; their position. Sinus. Open the kidney, and clean the vessels. Renal substance divided into cortical and pyramidal. Pyramids : number, apex, ends in papilla : base. Its usual weight is about five ounces and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The upper extremity of the kidney is rounded, is thicker than the lower, and is surmounted by the suprarenal body. The lower end is flat, and more pointed. The position with respect to the spinal column has been before detailed (p. 472). On the anterior surface the viscus is rounded, but on the opposite surface it is generally flattened. The outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is marked by a longitudinal fissure,—liilurri. In the fissure the vessels are thus placed with respect to one another :—The divisions of the renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches of the artery lie between the two. On the vessels the nerves and lymphatics ramify ; and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. Opposite the fissure is a hollow in the interior of the kidney, named sinus, in which the vessels and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. Dissection. To see the interior it will be necessary to cut through the kidney from the inner to the outer border ; and to remove the loose tissue from the vessels, and from the division of the excretory duct. The hollow or sinus containing the bloodvessels now conies completely into view. The interior of the kidney (fig. 161) appears on a section to consist of two different materials, viz., of an external granular or cortical portion ; and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal masses, which converge towards the centre. But these dissimilar-looking parts are constructed of urine tubes, though with a different arrangement. The pyramidal masses (d pyra- mids of Malpighi), are twelve or eighteen in number, and converge to the sinus of the kidney. The apex of each mass, which is free from cortical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mantilla or papilla (c). In it are the openings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in number, some being situate in a central depression and the others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the divi- sions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united in one papillary termination. The base is em- * Section through a piece of the kidney, showing the medullary and cortical portions, and the beginning of the ureter. a. Ureter, h. Pelvis of the ureter, c. Calyx of the excretory tube. d. Pyramidal portions ; c. Cortical portion of the kidney (Henle).