DISSECTION- OF THE PELVIS. 578 Membran- ous part: parts around. Spongy part: dimensions, two dilata- tions : one in bulb, one in glans lacunte, one larger than the rest. Ducts of glands of Cowper. Mucous membrane: extent; colour ; folds; glands; epithelium. Submucous tissue ; The membranous part of the urethra (fig. 179, g) is three quarters of an inch in length, and intervenes between the apex of the pro- state gland and the bulb (h) of the corpus spongiosum urethras. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the narrowest piece of the whole tube, with the exception of the outer orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, and is supported by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of unstriated cir- cular fibres (p. 430), and outside all by the constrictor urethras muscle. The spongy part (fig. 179, i) reaches to the end of the penis. It is about six inches in length. And its strength depends upon a surrounding material named corpus spongiosum urethras. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in diameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. On a cross section it appears as a transverse slit, but in the glans, as a vertical interval. Two dilatations exist in the floor of the spongy portion :—One is close to the triangular ligament, being contained in the bulb or bulbous part of the urethra, and is named sinus of the bulb ; the other is an elongated hollow, situate in the glans penis, which has been called fossa navicularis (n) from its shape. There are many small pouches or lacunce (o) in the canal, as far back as the membranous part, which have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these, larger than the rest, lacuna magna, is placed, generally, on the upper boundary or roof of the urethra, opposite the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Cowper's glands (fig. 179, h) are two in number, and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the bulb, but their openings are generally too small to be recognised. Mucous lining of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the urethra is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts opening into the canal, and joins in front the tegumentary covering of the glans penis. It is of a reddish colour in the spongy and membranous portions, but in the prostate it becomes whiter. In the spongy and membranous parts it is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the penis. Its surface is studded throughout with follicles, and with the apertures of branched glands, which are lodged in the submucous tissue, and whose ducts are inclined obliquely forwards ; and it is provided with papillas towards the external orifice. Its epithelial covering is of the columnar kind, but near the meatus it becomes laminar. Submucous tissue. Beneath the mucous lining of the urethra is a openings of the glands of the prostate, g. Membranous part of the urethra. h. Cowper's glands, a duct from each opening into the urethra, i. Spongy- part of the urethra. Jc. Bulb of the urethra. I. Glans penis, and n, fossa navicularis. o. Openings of lacunae and glands, r. Corpus cavernosum of the penis.