MUSCLES OF THE THUMB. 295 pieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the fore finger is distinct from the rest. From the ligament the four tendons are cross the directed through the hand to the fingers, and give origin to the liand small lumbricales muscles. At the root of the fingers each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and having passed through that tendon, is inserted into the base of the last to their phalanx. insertion. Between both flexor tendons and the bones are thin membranes, Short folds one for each. By means of this each tendon is connected with the flexor ten- capsule of the joint, and the fore part of the phalanx immediately clons- behind the bone into which it is inserted. The lumbricales muscles (fig. 84, i) are four small fleshy slips, Lumhrical which arise from the tendons of the deep flexor near the annular muscles- ligament ; and are directed to the radial side of the fingers, to be inserted into an aponeurotic expansion on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 82, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons Connec- and vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous for tlons> a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. The outer two arise from single tendons, but each of the others is Different connected with two tendons. origin. Action. By their insertion into the long extensor tendon they Use as will aid it in straightening the two last phalangeal joints ; and extensors when the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are much bent they may and flexors, assist in maintaining the flexion of those articulations. Tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. Beneath the annular ligament Tendon of this tendon is external to the flexor profundus, and turns outwards Qf^^J1 between the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis (fig. 84), to be in- serted into the last phalanx of the thumb. The common synovial its insertion, membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissection (fig. 84). The deep palmar arch of the radial artery, Dissection with the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and the interossei muscles, °£ thumbS will come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lumbricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student should preserve two fine nerves and vessels entering the two inner lumbrical muscles. The dissection of the muscles of the ball of the thumb and the and little little finger is next to be prepared. Some care is necessary in making uger' a satisfactory separation of the different small thumb muscles ; but those of the little finger are more easily defined. Short Muscles of the Thumb (fig. 84). These are four in number, Four inus- . • -, -i i r™ cles 1U the and are named from their action on the thumb. The most super- ball of the ficial is the abductor pollicis ; beneath it is the opponens pollicis, B, thumb> V1Z" which will be recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the bifid short flexor. And the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal bone is the adductor of the thumb. The abductor pollicis, A, is about an inch wide, and is thin, and Abductor. superficial to the rest. It arises from the upper part of the annular