67 SCALED I MUSCLES. If it is thought necessary, the anterior scalenus may be cut through after the artery has been studied. Clean the cervical plexus, and seek its muscular branches, the of cervical small twigs to join the descendens noni, and the roots of the plexus- phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the middle scalenus muscle be defined, as it lies beneath the cervical nerves. The scaleni muscles are usually described as three in number, Number of and are named from their relative position, anterior, middle, and muscles, posterior ; they extend from the first two ribs to the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras. The scalenus anticus (fig. 16, *) extends from the first rib to Scalenus the lower vertebras of the neck, and is somewhat conical in shape. antlcus* It is attached by its apex to the inner border and the upper surface Origin; of the first rib, so as to surround the rough surface or projection on this aspect of the bone ; and by its base it is inserted into the insertion; anterior transverse processes of four of the cervical vertebras, viz. sixth, fifth, fourth, and third (fig. 45 c). More deeply seated below than above, the muscle is concealed connections, Toy the clavicle and the subclavius, and by the clavicular part of the sterno-mastoid : the phrenic nerve lies along its cutaneous with vessels, surface, and the subclavian vein crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the internal jugular vein. Beneath the scalenus and nerves, are the pleura, the subclavian artery, and the nerves of the brachial plexus. The insertion into the vertebras corresponds with the origin of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Action. The anterior muscle raises strongly the first rib, in conse- Use. quence of its forward attachment. If the rib is fixed, it bends forwards the lower part of the neck. The SCALENUS MEDIUS MUSCLE - (£g. 16, 2) is larger than the Scalenus anterior, and extends farthest of■ "ail on the vertebras. Inferiorly medms- it is attached to a groove on the upper surface of the first rib, ' extending obliquely forwards for one inch and a half from the tubercle to the outer border. The muscle ascends behind the spinal nerves, and is inserted into the tips of the posterior transverse insertion, processes of all the cervical vertebras (fig. 45, D). In contact with the anterior surface are the subclavian artery ^j?^ and the spinal nerves, together with the sterno-mastoid muscle ; with it. the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus, and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The outer border is per- forated by the nerves of the rhomboid and serratus muscles. Action. Usually it elevates the first rib. With the rib fixed, the Use. cervical part of the spine can be inclined laterally by one muscle. The scalenus posticus (fig. 45, F) is inconsiderable in size, and Scalenus appears to be part of the preceding. It is attached below to the Postlcus- second rib, in front of the serratus posticus superior, by a slip about meuts!" half an inch wide ; and it is inserted above with the scalenus medius into two or three of the lower cervical transverse processes. Action. It acts as an elevator of the second rib ; and its fibres Use. having the same direction as those of the medius, it will help to incline the neck in the same way. f 2