GEMELLI AND OBTURATOR INTERNUS. 64-7 Muscular tranches of the sacral plexus are furnished to the gluteus Muscular maximus, and to the external rotators except the obturator externus. l,ranclies- Branches of gluteus. One or more branches of the plexus enter the upper fibres of the gluteus maximus (fig. 198). Two branches for the pyriformis enter the under surface, and are Branches of learnt with the sacral plexus in the pelvis (p. 567). pynfonms. The nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 199, 5) arises from the Nerve of upper part of the plexus, and is directed to its muscle through the obturatoi> small sacro-sciatic notch with the pudic nerve : its termination is seen in the dissection of the pelvis (p. 567). • The nerve to the superior gemellus (fig. 199, 7) is a very small ^1^1<urior twig, and arises separately from the following ; it enters the inner end of the muscle on the superficial surface. The nerve to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus (fig. 199, 6) Nerve to is a slender branch, which passes with a companion artery beneath and quad- the gemelli and the obturator internus, to end in the two muscles ratns> from which it receives its designation. This nerve will be seen more fully in a subsequent dissection, when articular filaments and hip from it to the hip joint may be recognised. ^omt' Dissection. To see the remaining small rotator muscles, hook Clean rota- aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the branches of the sciatic artery if it is necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be rotated inwards. The gemelli are to be separated from the tendon of the obturator internus. The SUPERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 198, C) is the highest of the two Superior muscular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator §emellus- muscle. Internally it is attached to the outer and lower part of the ischial spine, and externally it is inserted with the obturator into the great trochanter. Oftentimes the muscle is absent. The inferior gemellus (fig. 198, E) is larger than its fellow. J,^j^s Its origin is connected with the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, & along the lower edge or lip of the groove for the obturator internus muscle ; and its insertion is the same as that of the obturator tendon. ^1rt0e^tu This muscle is placed between the obturator internus and quad- rator. ratus, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator externus comes into contact with its lower border. Action. These small fleshy slips seem to be but accessory pieces ^steu^t^lp of origin to the internal obturator, with which they combine in use. The obturator internus (fig 198, D) arises from the innominate Obturator bone inside the pelvis (p. 594), and passes to the exterior through 111 ernus' the small sacro-sciatic notch. The tendon of the muscle is directed outwards over the hip joint, and is inserted with the gemelli into the outside ^ , top of the great trochanter, in front of the pyriformis, as well as 1>elvis' J^y^-j^ into the contiguous portion of the neck of the femur. Outside the pelvis the obturator is mostly tendinous, and is em- lies over hip ft braced by the gemelli muscles in the following way : near the Jomt' pelvis the gemelli meet beneath, but near the trochanter they cover the tendon. Beneath the obturator is a synovial sac. Crossing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves and the sciatic vessels ;