LIGAMENTS OF ELBOW. 313 humerus. The fibres diverge, and are inserted in this way:—The anterior, which are the strongest, are fixed to the edge of the coro- noid process ; the posterior are attached to the side of the olecranon ; whilst a few middle fibres join a transverse ligamentous band over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with the ligament; and vessels enter the joint by an aperture be- Fig. 90. * neath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thin, and its fibres are separated by intervals in which masses of fat are lodged. By its upper edge the ligament is inserted into the front of the humerus, and by its lower into the front of the coronoid pro- cess and the orbicular ligament. The brachialis anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is much thinner and looser than the anterior and is covered com- pletely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon : and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before men- tioned. Dissection. Open the joint by an incision across the front near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the articular surfaces may be seen. The synovial membrane of the joint passes from one bone to another along the inner surface of the connecting ligaments. It projects between the radius and the orbicular ligament, and serves for the joint of the head of that bone with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces. The humerus presents inferiorly two distinct articular faces for the bones of the forearm. The one for the radius, on the outer side, consists of a rounded eminence (capitellum) on the front of the bone, which is covered with cartilage only on the anterior aspect. The surface in contact with the ulna is limited internally and externally by a prominence, and hollowed out in the centre (trochlea). On the front of the humerus above the articular surface are two depressions which receive the coronoid process and the head of the radius during flexure of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the joint. On the end of the ulna the large sigmoid cavity is narrowed in the centre, but expanded in front and behind (fig. 91). A slightly * The ligaments of the elbow joint, and the shaft of the radius and ulna (Bourgery and Jacob).—1. Capsule of the elbow joint. 2. Oblique ligament. 3. Interosseous ligament. 4. Aperture for blood-vessels. 5. Tendon of the biceps. A notch on inner side of the joint. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligament. Dissection Synovial membrane. Lower end of the humerus. Two articu- lar surfaces, End of the ulna.