ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 463 And there may be one, two, or three inguinal hernias, on each side of the body, according to the depth of the fossae, and the predisposi- protrusions. tion to protrusion of the intestine. Femoral Hernia. In this hernia the intestine leaves the abdomen Situation of below Poupart's ligament, and descends in a loose membranous hernia, sheath around the femoral vessels. Only so much of the structures will be described here as can be now seen, the rest are noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh (p. 612). Dissection. The dissection for the femoral hernia is to be made Dissection on the left side of the body. concerned? The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from Divide the umbilicus to the pubes. The peritoneum is to be detached from wal1' the inner surface of the wall near Poupart's ligament, by means of a transverse cut just above that band ; and is to be raised from the iliac fossa. The layer of the subperitoneal fat is to be separated in the same way ; but before this can be done, it will be necessary to cut through the spermatic cord, or the round ligament: as this layer detach is raised, some lymphatic glands will belaid bare by the side of the mnerstrata iliac vessels. Any loose tissue remaining is to be taken away to take away show the upper opening of the membranous crural sheath contain- fat" ing the femoral vesssls, and the interval (crural ring) on their inner side (fig. 139). In this dissection the genito-crural nerve is seen on the iliac artery. Afterwards the fascia transversalis and the iliac fascia are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the production of the crural sheath. Anatomy of femoral hernia. The membranes concerned in the Anatomy femoral hernia are, the peritoneum : the subperitoneal fat; the structures, transversalis and iliac fasciae lining the interior of the abdominal cavity, with the sheath on the femoral vessels to which they give origin at Poupart's ligament. The peritoneum lines the inner surface of the abdominal wall, Peritoneal without having any aperture for the escape of the intestine ; and layer* its thinness and weakness are apparent now it is detached. The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer beneath the Subperi- peritoneum, but is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of the toneal fat' abdomen, where the iliac vessels pass under Poupart's ligament. At that spot it extends over the upper opening of the membranous sheath around the vessels ; and internal to the vein, it covers the space of the crural ring, as well as a lymphatic gland which oc- cupies that space. Where this layer stretches over the crural ring it is named by forms sep- M. Cloquet septum crurale ; and it is described by him as being tmn crmale concave towards the abdomen, and convex towards the thigh. An inguinal gland is generally attached to its under surface. The fascia transversalis has been before noticed (p. 451). At Fascia Poupart's ligament it joins the iliac fascia, outside the situation of ^?sver" the large iliac artery (fig. 139) ; but internal to that spot it is con- turned downwards to the thigh in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath.