38 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. has three sets of branches. Temporal branches to side of head. Malar branches to evelids. Branches between eye and month. Lower part of the trunk three sets of branches. Buccal to corner of mouth. Supra - maxillary between mouth and chin. Infra- maxillary to neck. it sends downwards branches to join the auriculotemporal portion o£ the inferior maxillary nerve ; and in front of the ear it gives some filaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of terminal branches, temporal, malar, and infra-orbital, are derived from the temporo-facial piece. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch to enter the orbicular muscle, the corrugator supercilii, and the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis; they are united with offsets of the supra-orbital nerve (6). The attrahens aurem muscle receives a branch from this set ; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (10). The malar branches are directed to the outer angle of the orbit, and are distributed to the orbicularis muscle. In the eyelids com- munications take place with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve ; and near the outer part of the orbit, with the small sub- cutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve (9). The infra-orbital branches are larger than the rest, and are furnished to the muscles and the integument between the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a remarkable communication—infra-orbital plexus, is formed between these nerves and the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillary (n). After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to supply the muscles, and to join the nasal (7) and infra-trochlear (8) branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The cervico-facial is smaller than the other trunk, and distri- butes nerves to the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temj^oro- facial nerve, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, whilst in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united with the great auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed from it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards towards the angle of the mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator muscle, and terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the branch (12) of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle. The supra-maxillary branches course inwards above the base of the lower jaw to the middle line of the chin, and supply the muscles and the integument between the chin and mouth. In their course to the middle line the branches of the facial join beneath the depressor anguli oris offsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve (13). The infra-maxillary branches lie below the jaw, and are dis- tributed to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of these nerves will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 59).