DORSAL SCAPULAE, VESSELS. 263 trunk, and is one of the branches of the thyroid axis (p. 70). scapular After a short course in the neck it passes over the ligament at the artery superior costa, and crossing beneath the supraspinatus muscle, ends ends in in the infraspinal fossa, where it gives offsets to the infraspinatus tus^an^" muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular, and the posterior scapular of the subclavian (p. 70). Beneath the supraspinatus it furnishes a supraspinal branch for gives a the supply of the muscle, the bone, and the shoulder joint. branch1?111*1 The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external vein, jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve (*) is a branch of the brachial plexus Suprascapu- (p. 73). When it reaches the costa of the scapula, it enters the supra- ar neive' spinal fossa beneath the posterior special ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus ; and it is continued be- branches, beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder joint, Articular and other offsets to the scapula. The posterior scapular artery runs along the base of the scapula Posterior beneath the rhomboid muscles, furnishing offsets to them and the artery^ surfaces of the bone. It is more fully noticed with the dissection of the Back (p. 387). The dorsal branch of the subscapular artery (6, p. 248) turns Dorsal below the inferior costa of the scapula, opposite the posterior of subscapular the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infra- artery, spinal fossa beneath the teres minor, it supplies that muscle and the infraspinatus, and communicates with the suprascapular artery. This vessel sends a branch along the dorsum of the scapula between the teres muscles, towards the inferior angle of the bone. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position. For the dissection of the superficial vessels and nerves Position on the front of the arm the limb should lie flat on the table, with the front uppermost. Dissection. The skin is to be raised from the fore and hinder sur- ^^"^ faces of the arm and elbow joint. To reflect it, make one incision skin> along the centre of the limb as far as two inches below the elbow ; and at the termination, a second cut half round the forearm. Strip now the skin from the limb as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a bursa may be seen. The cutaneous veins (fig. 76) may be sought first in the fat: Seek super- they are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, as they issue ficial vems- from beneath the integument. One n the centre of the forearm is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow. External