512 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. use of the vessels. Vessels in the liver. Capsule of Glisson. Vena porta? occupies portal canals, cells (Chrzonszczewsky); they leave the lobule at the circumference, and are joined together outside it in the smallest interlobular branches (/). From the arrangement of the vessels, it appears that the portal vein conducts the blood from which bile is secreted ; that the hepatic vein carries away the superfluous blood ; and that the secreted bile is received by the plexus of the biliary duct. Vessels of the Liver. Two sets of bloodvessels ramify in the liver :—One enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely in spaces (portal canals) where it is enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set (hepatic veins) run from the anterior to the poste- rior border of the liver without a like sheath. The ramifications of these different vessels are to be followed in the liver. The capsule of Glis- son is a layer of areolar tissue, which envelops the vessels and the ducts in the transverse fissure. In this sheath the vessels ramify, and in it are minutely divided before their termination in the lo- bules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the ves- sels will retract some- what into the loose surrounding tissue. The vena porta rami- fies in the liver like an artery ; and the blood circulates through it in from trunk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides into large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces, with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 159, r). The * A. Two lobules of the liver showing the plexus of ducts in the interior, near tbe circumference (Kiernan) ; recent inquiries demonstrate the existence of a plexus throughout the lobule, g. Intralobular plexus. /. Interlobular ducts, e. Small branches of the hepatic dues. b. Lobules of an injected liver to show the arrangement of the veins, a. Smallest branches of the vena porta? ending in the interlobular veins, b. c. Plexus of portal veins within the lobule, d. Intra-lobular commencement of the hepatic vein joining the plexus of the portal vein. the same manner, viz..