MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. 275 to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal off- sets One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo- spiral nerve to the front of the elbow, anastomosing with the re- current radial branch : whilst others continue along the intermuscular septum to the elbow, and join the radial and posterior interosseous recurrent branches. Branches. Most of the terminal offsets of the vessel descend to Supplies the olecranon, supplying the triceps, and communicate with the forms a cir-1 inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the brachial artery p1? around (p. 270) ; and with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the J°m '* forearm except the anterior ulnar. One slender twig accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutaneous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, Cutaneous and accompany the superficial nerves. offsets. The musculo-spiral nerve (fig. 70) is the largest trunk of the Muscuio- posterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 249) and is continued along windsn61V6 the back and outer part of the limb to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds with the profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the brach- to outer side ialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external condyle of the arm" of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and • posterior interosseous nerves. The nerve gives muscular branches, Branches, and the following cutaneous offsets to the inner and outer sides of the limb. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm (fig. 78,6) is of small internal size, and arises in the axillary space in common with the branch to branch, the inner head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 266). h. The external cutaneous branches springing at the outer side of Two exter- the limb are two in number : they are distributed in the integuments neous.ta" of the arm and forearm (p. 266). c. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply Branches to all three heads. One slender offset for the inner head, arises in e nceps' common with the inner cutaneous branch, and lies close to the ulnar nerve till it enters the muscular fibres at the lower third of the arm. Another long and slender branch behind the humerus, appearing as and an_ if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. cl. On the outer side of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve supplies brachials the brachialis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearm, viz. of forearS supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Suhanconeus muscle. A thin fleshy stratum of the under part of ^1^°°" the triceps near the elbow has been so named. It is described as consisting of two fasciculi, inner and outer, which are attached above ^nts1" the fossa for the olecranon, and end in the synovial sac of the joint. A corresponding muscle is placed beneath the extensor of the knee joint. c./ A *^ T 2