DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 454 lowest. Internal mammary. Epigastric anastomoses with inter- nal mam- mary ; connections in wall of abdomen. Branches: pubic joins obturator by an. offset; cremas- teric ; muscular; cutaneous. Epigastric^ veins. Circumflex iliac" is in wall of abdomen, and anasto- moses with ilio-lumbar: muscular they anastomose with the internal mammary and epigastric : behind they communicate with the lumbar arteries. The lowest artery accompanies the last intercostal nerve below the last rib, and is distributed with the nerve (p. 638). The internal mammary artery. The abdominal branch of this vessel (p. 253) enters the wall of the abdomen beneath the carti- lage of the seventh rib. Descending in the sheath of the rectus, the vessel soon enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epigastric artery. The epigastric artery (fig. 138, a) arises from the external iliac about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends in the sheath of the rectus and divides above the umbilicus into branches which enter that muscle, and anastomose with the internal mammary. As the artery courses to the rectus it passes beneath the cord and on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and it is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, so as to form the outer boundary of a triangular space along the edge of the rectus. It lies at first beneath the fascia transversalis ; but it soon perforates that fascia, and enters the sheath of the rectus over the semilunar border at the posterior aspect. The branches of the artery are numerous, but inconsiderable in size :— a. The pubic branch is a small transverse artery, which runs behind Poupart's ligament to the posterior aspect of the pubes, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the opposite side. Behind the pubes it communicates with a small offset from the obturator artery (fig. 139,/) : the size of this anastomosis varies much, but its situation is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the muscular covering of the cord. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the artery to the abdominal wall, which anastomose with the intercostal arteries (p. 453), and others enter the rectus. Cutaneous offsets pierce the muscle, and ramify in the integuments with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins lie with the artery ; they join finally into one, which opens into the external iliac vein. The circumflex iliac artery arises from the outer side of the external iliac, opposite the epigastric, and courses around the iliac crest, as the name expresses. Having perforated the crural sheath, it passes beneath the transversalis muscle to the middle of the crest of the hip-bone. Here it pierces the transversalis, and is continued backwards between this and the internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac artery. Its offsets are muscular and anastomotic. Branches. Near the front of the iliac crest a small branch ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomoses with the epigastric and inter- costal arteries.