SPINAL PIA MATER. 407 The outer surface of the pia mater is rough. Along the front is Fibrous n central, anterior fibrous band (linea splendens, Haller) ; and on bauds- ■each side another fibrous band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is •attached to it. Scattered through the membrane are branched pig- ment cells, which give a dark appearance in the cervical region. Where the medulla spinalis ceases, viz., about the lower edge of it ends the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the tube of the pia mater is Scabrous ■suddenly reduced in size, and has the appearance of a round fibrous Piece>tne cord (fig. 124, b). This cord-like part (fllum terminale) is provided with nervous substance above ; and blends, below, with the central impervious prolongation of the dura mater. It serves to fix the lower end of the. medulla spinalis, and has been named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A vein and artery central accompany this fibrous piece, and distinguish it from the surrounding lgam 1 nerves. The ligamentum denticulatum (fig. 122, c) is the white, fibrous The dentate toothed band, on each side of the spinal cord. It is named from ll^aments its serrated appearance ; and it has the same structure as the dura mater, except that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves,is fix^4 °P the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends cord, inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangular or tooth-like projections (d), which are fixed at intervals into the dura mater, each being about midway between the apertures ^^1aother of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty-one mater. denticulations ; of which the first is attached to the dura mater Number and opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite ^pofnts. the twelfth dorsal, or the first lumbar vertebra. This fibrous band supports the spinal cord, and has been called a Use. ligament from that circumstance. Vessels and nerves of the membranes. The dura mater of the cord ^^Jf j*fnd lias but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for its dura mater, office is different. Nerves are said to be furnished to it from offsets on the vessels supplying the cord. The arachnoid is sparingly supplied with vessels like serous °*^cl1" membranes in general; and proof of its containing nerves, in man, is yet wanting. Theses mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though of pia mater, this is less marked here than on the brain ; and from them offsets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves, derived from the sympathetic. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken from the Dissection of roots of fibrils of the roots of the nerves on one side ; and the roots are to nerves, be traced outwards to their transmission through two apertures in the dura mater for each nerve. One of the offsets of the dura mater, which has been cut of some and the^ length, is to be laid open to show the contained ganglion. The gan° lon" student should define one ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 123 b), and should trace a bundle of threads of