191 STRUCTURE OF MEDULLA. those of the spinal cord (fig. 54) ; and slight grooves indicative of these divisions are to be seen on the surface. Thus at the middle line in front is the anterior pyramid (*) corresponding with the anterior column of the cord ; at the middle line behind is the small posterior pyramid (fig. 554) continuous with the posterior median column. On the side is the larger projecting restiform body (fig. 543), joining below the posterior column of the cord ; and between this and the anterior pyramid is the lateral tract (2), with an oval pro- jecting body (corpus olivare 5) on the exterior, which blends below with the lateral column. The anterior pyramid (fig. 54*) is the most internal eminence ^JJjj?J and receives its name from its position and form. Situate on the iS most side of the median fissure, it is internal to the olivary body, from mternal which it is separated by a slight groove. Enlarging as it ascends, this body enters the pons, but, before disappearing beneath the transverse fibres, it is somewhat constricted and rounded. Lateral tract and olivary body. The lateral tract (funiculus Lateral lateralis2) fills the interval between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body. Its surface width is not the same throughout: opposite the lower part of the medulla oblongata it measures as much as the pyramid ; but near the pons it is much concealed by not uniform the olivary body, so that it is seen only in the narrow interval111 size' between the corpus olivare and the restiform body. The olivary body (corpus olivare5) is an oval projection, about Olivary half an inch long. A shallow groove separates it from the pyramid, does not and a deeper and wider one intervenes between it and the restiform reach P°ns- body. This eminence is shorter than the pyramid, and does not reach to the pons. Its upper end is most prominent ; and arching Some arched round the lower end, and over the surface, are some white fibres fibres, (fibrse arciformes). Restiform body (3). The restiform body (restis, a rope) forms JJ^^the the largest prominence on the half of the medulla oblongata, and largest cannot be seen satisfactorily except on a distinct preparation. It piece* is posterior to the lateral tract, and projects on the side, so as to give the width to the upper part of the medulla oblongata. Behind, the restiform bodies diverge above from .each other, and between them is the space of the fourth ventricle. The posterior pyramid (funic, gracilis, fig. 55, 4) lies along the Po^^^ris side of the posterior median fissure, and is much narrower than close to either of the other component pieces. By drawing forwards the l^uan01* medulla it will be seen to be slightly enlarged (clava) at the apex of fissure, the fourth ventricle, and then to become gradually indistinct along the inner part of the corpus restiforme. Structure. From the interposition of the medulla oblongata ^J^"80* between the brain and the spinal cord, it is continuous with both. Below, the constituent pieces of each half join directly (as before said) those of the spinal cord ; but, above, they are continued chiefly to the cerebrum, only one piece (restiform) entering the cerebellum. Dissection (fig. 56). The student has now to show the continuity Dissection