DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 480 and vein : aortic plexus. Inferior mesenteric artery, origin, and "branches. Left colic branch to the descend- ing colon. Sigmoid branch to sigmoid flexure. Branch to rectum. Inferior mesenteric vein. Veins no valves. Lymphatic glands. Plexuses of the sympa- thetic to the viscera. Dissection of aortic plexus, and sected afterwards. On the artery and its branches the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves ramifies. The mesenteric vein is to be followed upwards, away from the trunk of the artery, to its junction with the splenic, or with the superior mesenteric vein. On the aorta the dissector will meet with a plexus of nerves, which is to be left uninjured. The inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 142, b) supplies branches to the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, and communicating with the superior mesenteric, assists to maintain the chain of anas- tomosis along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the aorta, from one to two inches above the bifurca- tion. At first the vessel descends on the aorta, and crosses the left common iliac artery, as it courses to the pelvis to end in branches for the rectum (superior hsemorrhoidal). The following branches are furnished by it to the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. a. The left colic artery (c) ascends in front of the left kidney, and divides into an ascending and a descending branch for the supply of the descending colon : by the ascending offset it anasto- moses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric. b. The sigmoid artery (d) is distributed to the sigmoid flexure, and divides into offsets which anastomose above with the preceding colic, and below with the hsemorrhoidal branch. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries before they reach the intestine. c. The superior hemorrhoidal artery (e) enters between the layers of the meso-rectum, and is distributed to the lower end of the great intestine : it will be described in the dissection of the pelvis. The inferior mesenteric vein (fig. 144, d) begins in the part of the great intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends along the psoas muscle to open into the splenic vein be- neath the pancreas. Occasionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. Both mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be injected from the trunk to the branches, like an artery. Lymphatic glands are ranged along the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The absorbents of the intestine, after passing through those glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Nerve. The following plexuses of the sympathetic on the vessels, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, and in- ferior mesenteric, are derived from the solar plexus beneath the stomach. The remaining portion of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to (p. 489.). Dissection. On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have made out, already, the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intes- tinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses, by taking the peritoneum from the aorta