573 STRUCTURE OF URINARY BLADDER. Coats of the bladder. flattened from before backwards; but out of the body it is more circular than when in its natural position, and it loses that arched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches Dimensions, in length, and three inches across (Buschke). Its capacity is greatly influenced by the age and sex, and by the habits of the individual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint without in- convenience during life, though it can contain much more when distended. As a general rule it is larger in the female than Fig. 177.* in the male. Structure. A muscular and a mucous coat, with an inter- vening fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at certain parts the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. The imperfect covering of peritoneum has been described (p. 550): The muscular coat is formed of thin layers of unstriated muscular fibres, viz. an exter- nal or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 177, l) form a continuous covering, with the usual plexi- form disposition of the mus- cular bundles, and extend from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the urachus, and the subperito- neal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior and lateral fibres enter the prostate ; whilst the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, but a fasciculus on each side is united to the back of the pubes through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than on the sides. Sometimes this outer reritoneal. Muscular lias three strata. External or longitudinal attach- ments : * Muscular fibres of the bladder, prostate, and urethra. 1. External or longitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Circular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra. 5. Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous with the circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corpus spongiosum. 8. Corpus spongiosum. 9. Corpus caver- nosum. 10. Ureter.