489 EPIGEASTIC PLEXUS AND OFFSETS. SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nerve. In the abdomen, as in the thorax, the General dis- sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side of the nerves." °f vertebral column ; and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. Two prevertebral plexuses exist in the abdomen. One of these, Te^r1easrge the epigastric, is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to solar ' all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, the hypo- gastric plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the and hypo- i • • gastric. pelvic viscera. ° The knotted or gangliated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its offsets is to be now examined. Dissection. To denude the epigastric plexus, the following dissec- How to lay tion is to be made :—After the air has been let out of the stomach pieXus3 and duodenum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gastro-epiploic vessels are to be cut through near the pylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver the vena cava appears : the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish semi- JJJjJ^J^ lunar ganglion ; and mixed up with the nerves of the plexus are ganglia, numerous lymphatic glands, with a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. From its inner part he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on the branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion offsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper end the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen ; and deeper than the last, one or two smaller splanchnic nerves may be observed in a fissure of the diaphragm, which throw themselves into the coeliac and renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumogastric Follow the nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the upper tSewus border in front near the oesophagus ; and the right nerve will be nerves, seen at a corresponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches from the right nerve are to be followed to the plexus of the sympa- thetic by the side of the coeliac axis; and from the left, to the hepatic plexus. The epigastric or solar plexus is a large network of nerves and Solar ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and the pillars of the plexus * diaphragm : it fills the space between the suprarenal capsules of appearance, opposite sides, and extends downwards to the pancreas, surround- exteilt; ing the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves ; and it is joined also by an offset of the right pneumo-gastric nerve. Large branches are furnished to the different viscera along the gives offsets on blood- vessels.