699 EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. through. If there is a second external lateral band present, it is not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 214, 2) is round and cord-like. External It is attached to the outer condyle of the femur below the tendon men?ishga" of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces small: of the tendon of the biceps to a depression on the upper and outer part of the head of the fibula. Beneath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but occasional it is not attached to the femur ; it is connected above with the gastrocnemius, and below with the posterior prominence of the head of the fibula. The tendon of the biceps is inserted by two pieces into the points Tendon of on the head of the fibula ; and from the anterior of these there is divided!PS *S a prolongation to the head of the tibia. The external lateral liga- ment passes between the pieces into which the tendon is split. The tendon of the popliteus may be followed by dividing the Tendon of posterior ligament. It arises from the fore part of the oblong teusPj°Pli" depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external semilunar fibro-cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal arti- culation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle ; but slips out of that groove when the limb is extended. The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into a tubercle on and of the internal condyle of the femur, above the attachment of the mal^us.1 internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 215, 3) is attached to the con- internal dyle of the femur, where it blends with the capsule ; but becoming }Jen?•hga" thicker below, and separate from the rest of the capsule, it is fixed attach- for about an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, below the ments; level of the ligamentum patellae. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles is joined by lie over the ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, branosus. and the internal lower articular vessels and nerve are beneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres of the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is inserted beneath insertion the internal lateral ligament into an impression at the back of the membrano-' inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia : between it and the bone sus. is a synovial bursa. The tendon sends some fibres to the internal lateral ligament, a prolongation to join the fascia on the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The posterior ligament (ligament of Winslow), wide and mem- Posterior branous, covers the back of the joint between the two lateral, and HSament- is joined by fibres from the tendon of the semimembranosus, which are directed across the joint to the outer side. It is fixed below to Two setsof the head of the tibia behind the articular surface, and above to the fibres- femur, but by strongest fibres opposite the intercondyloid notch. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of the vessels and