SUBLINGUAL GLAND. 09 The hypo-glossal or ninth nekve (fig. 23,6) in the submaxillary Ninth region lies on the hyo-glossus muscle, being concealed by the ^ mylo-hyoideus: but at the inner border of the hyo-glossus it chin and enters the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued along liyoid bone' the middle line of the tongue to the tip. Branches. On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes branches Its branches to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except the mylo-hyoid muscles and the digastric, viz., to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio- hyoideus, and genio-hyo-glossus. Further, some offsets communi- cate with the gustatory nerve on the hyo-glossus. Along the middle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long and the filaments which supply the lingual structure, and communicate with the gustatory nerve. The glosso-pliaryngeal cranial nerve (fig. 23, 4), crossing between Giosso- the two carotid arteries, courses over the stylo-pharyngeus and nerve.nS6al the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and ends under the hyo- glossus in branches for the tongue. See Dissection of the Tongue. The duct of the submaxillary gland (fig. 23,3), Wharton's duct, Wharton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the dnct border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, and is directed upwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on the side of the frsenum linguae in opens by the centre of an eminence : its opening in the mouth will be seen [[*^n if a bristle be passed along it. The duct has a thin wall, and consists externally of a fibrous layer with much elastic tissue and a few pale muscular fibres ; and internally of a mucous lining with flattened epithelium. The deep part of the submaxillary gland extends along the Sublingual side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland, beneath The sublingual gland (fig. 23, N) is somewhat of the shape of an tongue, almond, and the longest measurement, which is about one inch and a half, is directed backwards. It is situate beneath the tip of the tongue, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, and close to the symphysis. Separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane, the gland is prolonged across the upper border of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, so as to touch the one of the opposite side. The sublingual is an aggregation of small glandular masses, structure, each being provided with a separate duct (Henle). The ducts Ducts open (ductus Eiviniani) are from ten to eighteen in number. Some of 111 mouth- them open beneath the tongue along a crescent-shaped fold of the mucous membrane, and others join the Whartonian duct ; one or more form a larger tube, which either joins that duct or opens near it. h 2