309 POSTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT. d. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the radial and fore- edge of that digit. finger' The different divisions of the annular ligament may be seen more Sheaths of completely by cutting the sheaths of the ligament over the several Sgament tendons passing beneath. There are six separate compartments, and each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most external from with- one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a out inwards large hollow for the two radial extensors of the wrist; and a very small space for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger ; and then comes a slender compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for the extensor carpi Bones ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the ulna ; but the others lie in the tendons; hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the ex- ception of the extensor minimi digiti which is situate between the and not. bones. Dissection. If the supinator brevis be divided by a vertical inci- To see sion, and reflected from the radius, its attachment to that bone will supinator°f be better understood. The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its gangli- ^^°sseous form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist. The dorsal surface of the posterior interossei muscles of the hand and .inter' i • -i • • • • • • ossei mus- may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their insertion into cies. the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be observed. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the posterior per- forating arteries appear. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER, ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the Directions, limb, which are still moist, may be examined at once; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, whilst the student learns the others. Dissection. For the preparation of the external ligaments of the Dissection shoulder-joint the tendons of the surrounding muscles, viz. sub- ligaments of scapularis, supra and infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be shoulder, detached from the capsule ; and as these are united with it, some care will be needed not to open the joint. Shoulder Joint. This ball and socket joint (fig. 89) is formed Shoulder between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the outline of. scapula. Inclosing the articular ends of the bones is a fibrous capsule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous band