DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. 412 Fissures of the cord are anterior median, Fig. 125.' posterior • median, lateral fissure and poste- rior groove. The cord is divided into antero- lateral column, posterior column, obtained from the spinal canal at this period, is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface, with the roots of the nerves left on one side, the student will be able to observe the following divisions of the medulla. Fissures of the Cord (fig. 125). On the anterior and posterior aspects of the cord is a median longitudinal cleft—the anterior and posterior median fissures, which mark its division into halves ; and along the line of the posterior roots of the nerves, in each half, is another slit—the lateral fissure. The anterior median fissure (fig. 125) is wider than the posterior, and penetrates about one third of the thickness of the medulla : it is lined by a piece of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medullary substance lines the fissure ; and in the bottom of it the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood- vessels. The posterior median fissure (fig. 125) is not so wide, or so well marked as the anterior ; but it is best seen at the upper part of the neck, and in the lower or dorsal enlargement. Vessels of the posterior surface of the cord enter it. The lateral fissure is situate along the line of attachment of the fibrils of the posterior roots (fig. 125, d). Between the lateral and posterior median fissures is a slight groove on the surface (fig. 125, e). Sometimes a lateral fissure is described along the line of origin of the anterior roots (&), but there is not any cleft in that situation. Segments of the Cord. Each half of the cord between the median fissures is divided into two by the lateral sulcus (fig. 125, d) : the piece in front of that slit and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero-lateral column (a) ; and the piece behind, the posterior column (b). The antero-lateral column (fig. 125, a) includes rather more than two thirds of the half of the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attachment to the anterior roots (7c). The posterior column (fig. 125, 5) is situate between the lateral fissure (cZ), with the posterior roots of the nerves (j"), and the central median fissure. Near the median fissure is a slight groove (e), * A section of the spinal cord, to show its composition, and its divisions. Fissures in the middle line are the anterior and posterior median—the anterior being the wider, d. The lateral fissure, e. The slight groove between the lateral and the posterior median fissure, which marks the limit of the posterior median column. Columns : a. Antero-lateral. b. Posterior. c. Posterior median. Composition : g. Gray crescent, surrounded by white fibres. li. Gray transverse commissure, and i, canal of the cord in it. j. Posterior, and anterior root of a nerve entering the gray crescent.