391 ERECTOR SPIN-ffl AND OFFSETS. vertebra as low as the eighth or ninth, or only for half that extent. Action. Both muscles contracting will extend the dorsal region of use of the spine. Perhaps the muscle of one side may tend to incline the spmalls- spine laterally. ° The erector SPiNiE is the muscular mass on the side of the Erector spine in the lumbar region. It is single and pointed below ; and sFngleatits its cutaneous surface is covered near the sacrum by a wide and ori§m- strong tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus spinas. The muscle arises at the pelvis from the posterior fifth of the crest ^JjJjJ1" of the hip-bone at the inner aspect, except opposite the upper spinous process : in the lumbar region it is attached by fleshy and tendin- ous pieces to the transverse processes, to the tubercle (process, accessorius) at the root, and to the layer of the fascia lumborum external to each. Opposite the last rib it divides into ilio-costalis J^J^strib and longissimus dorsi. into two. * The ILIO-COSTALIS (SACRO-LUMBALIS) is the smallest of the two Sacro- pieces resulting from the division of the erector spinas. Its fibres lumbalis end in six or seven flat tendons, which are connected together by their margins, and are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. The muscle is continued onwards to the other ribs js inserted and the neck by a fleshy part, which constitutes the two under- lower ribs."4 mentioned muscles :— c? The musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem begins by a series Musculus accessorius of tendinous and fleshy bundles on the angles of the lower six ribs, internal to the insertion of the ilio-costalis ; and it ends in tendons, which are inserted into the remaining ribs (upper six), in a line with is attached the ilio-costalis, and into the posterior transverse process of the ribs.XUPPer seventh cervical vertebra. The cervicalis ascendens is a muscular slip prolonging the ^g^^ens accessorius into the neck : this muscle is attached to four ribs (third, fourth, fifth, and sixth), and is inserted into the posterior reaches the transverse processes of three cervical vertebras, viz., sixth, fifth, and fourth. 0 The longissimus dorsi gradually decreases in size as it ascends ^s^orsi along the thorax. Internally the muscle is inserted into the trans- verse processes of all the dorsal vertebras by a series of tendinous insertion: and fleshy bundles ; and externally it is attached to the ribs, except the first two or three, by thin fleshy processes between the tubercle and angle. Its muscular prolongation to the neck is is continued united with the upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two follow- ^^g116^ ing pieces :— , The transversalis colli (fig. 118, B) arises from the transverse pro- transver- cesses of the upper six dorsal vertebras, and is inserted into the salls coUl posterior transverse processes of the cervical vertebras, except the first two and the last. The trachelo-mastoid muscle (fig. 118, c transversalis capitis ?) Jn^c|^d arises in common with the preceding, and is attached, besides, by mastoid, distinct tendons to the articular processes of the last three or four cervical vertebras. The muscle is thin and is inserted beneath the