465 STRICTURE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. But in some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from the state of unusual vessels. epigastric, and lies along the ring as it passes to the pelvis. It un may have two positions with respect to the crural ring :—either it is placed close to the iliac vein, so as to leave the inner side of that space free from vessels ; or it arches over the aperture, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament ; in this last condition the ring will be encircled except at the posterior part. Course of femoral hernia. The intestine leaves the abdomen by Femoral the opening of the crural ring ; and it descends internal to the vein herma- in the large crural sheath, as far as the saphenous opening in the thigh, where it projects to the surface. Coverings. In its progress the intestine will push before it the From abdo- peritoneum, and the subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it j^rftonfum will displace, or cause to be absorbed, the gland which fills the and subperi- tonealfat crural ring. Having reached the level of the saphenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural sheath, and crural and a layer called the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, it is invested by the teguments of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuller detail (pp. 613 to 616). Seat of stricture. The stricture of a femoral hernia is placed ^^j? opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, or lower down at the neck, or at margin of the saphenous opening in the thigh. And the constric- op^Jjfn °us tion may be caused either by a fibrous band outside the upper narrow end of the tumour, or by the thickening of the peritoneum inside the neck, as in inguinal hernia. Divison of the stricture. To free the intestine from the constrict- incision to ing fibrous band arching over it, an incision is to be made down Vernal 6X~ to the neck of the sac at the inner and upper part. And to relieve the deep stricture within the neck of the sac, the ^^jj" peritoneal bag is to be opened and a director introduced, and the knife is to be carried horizontally inwards, or upwards and inwards, through the thickened sac and a few fibres of the edge of Gimber- nat's ligament. Danger to vessels. "When the incision is made upwards and in- ^j^^ wards to loosen the constricting band in the neck of the tumour, vessels in there will not be any vessel injured unless the cut should be made resular so long as to reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the same and irregu- view, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But Jfon ofdl" in some few instances (Once in about eighty operations, Lawrence), them, the obturator artery takes its unusual course in front of, and on the inner side of the neck of the hernia, and will be before the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the vessel cannot be recognised beforehand, the surgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. H II