DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 110 the tonsil, and the tongue. Vagus nerve in foramen jugujare, and in the neck, courses to the thorax. One gan- glion in foramen, another below. Branches d. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—circulus tonsillaris. e. Lingual brandies. The terminal branches of the nerve supply the root and posterior part of the tongue, as well as the lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Section 15). The pneumo-gastric nerve (fig. 26, 2, vagus nerve) is the largest of the cranial nerves in the neck, and escapes through the jugular foramen in the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal acces- sory. In the aperture of exit it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. When the nerve has left the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a ganglion nearly an inch long (gang, of the trunk). Here the nerve lies between the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, and communicates with several nerves. To reach the thorax, the vagus descends almost vertically (fig. 25, 3) between the internal jugular vein and the internal and common carotid arteries ; and enters that cavity, on the right side, by crossing over the sub- clavian artery, but beneath the innominate vein. * Ganglia. The ganglion of the root (gang, superius, fig. 26, 8), is of a greyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. Small branches in the foramen jugulare come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunh (gang, infe- rius), (9) is cylindrical in form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch in length ; it communicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympathetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve are surrounded by the ganglionic substance, but those derived from the spinal accessory nerve (n) pass over the ganglion without being inclosed in it. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve may be arranged into * Diagram of the eighth nerve. 1. Grlosso-pharyngeal trunk. 2. Vagus. 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. 5. Petrosal ganglion. 6. Jacob- son's nerve. 7. Auricular branch. 8. Hoot ganglion of vagus. 9. Trunk ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrosal and upper ganglion of the vagus. 11. Small part of spinal accessory. 12. Chief part of spinal accessory. 13. Pharyngeal branch of vagus. 14. Superior laryngeal branch of vagus.