336 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. and coro- nary sinus. Two arteries of the heart, viz., right coro- nary, left coro- nary artery. Veins of the lieart. 'Coronary sinus : veins join- ing it. Valves in the veins. Large car- diac vein is single. cardiac plexus ; and with the remaining artery another plexus is to be sought. In the groove at the back of the heart between the auricles and ventricles, the student will find the large coronary vein, and the dilated coronary sinus, in which it ends on the right: the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. The coronary arteries are two small vessels which are so named from their course around the heart : they are the first branches of the aorta. One is distributed mostly on the right, and the other on the left side of the heart. The right coronary branch appears on the right side of the pul- monary artery, and is directed onwards in the depression between the right auricle and ventricle, to end in the left half of the heart on the posterior aspect. In its course branches are distributed up- wards and downwards to the right half of the viscus. Two of these are of larger size than the rest :—one runs on the anterior aspect of the right ventricle towards the free margin ; the other descends on the back of the heart towards the apex, along the septum between the ventricles. The left coronary branch is inclined behind the pulmonary artery to the left side of that vessel, and in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle to the back of the same side of the heart. Like the preceding artery, it furnishes offsets to the substance of the auricle and ventricle of its side ; the largest of these descends in the anterior sulcus over the septum ventriculorum towards the apex. The veins of the substance of the heart (cardiac) are not the same in number, nor have they the 'same arrangement as the arteries. There may be said to be three sets, but for the most part they are collected into one large trunk, the coronary sinus, which opens into the right auricle. The coronary sinus (fig. 99, l) will be seen on raising the heart to be placed in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle. About an inch usually in extent, it is joined at the one end by the great coronary vein (4) ; and at the other it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Inferiorly and at its right end it receives some branches from the back of the ventricles (3 and ; and nearly at its left extremity another vein (2),—the oblique vein (Marshall), which ascends along the back of the left auricle. On slitting the sinus with a scissors the openings of its different veins will be seen to be guarded with valves, with the exception of the oblique vein ; and at its right end is the large Thebesian valve of the right auricle. The great cardiac or coronary vein begins in front near the apex of the heart, in the substance of the ventricles. The vessel turns to the posterior surface in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, and opens into the coronary sinus (fig. 99,4). It receives collateral branches in its course, and its ending in the sinus is marked by two valves.