DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 516 and outside pelvis. Fascia of the wall of the pelvis. Its attach- ment above and below : connections Beeto-vesi- callayer after. To remove hip bone, detach fascia; saw the bone, and divide- soft parts: then blow Tip bladder and distend other parts. fascia will now appear on the outer side of that fossa, as it covers the obturator muscle. An additional step for showing the arrangement of the fascia may be taken, by removing the external obturator muscle and the obturator membrane, and then scraping away through the thyroid hole the obturator internus muscle, so as to look at the fascia through that aperture. The pelvic fascia is a thin membrane in close contact with the obturator muscle, and is fixed to the bone around the attachment of the fleshy fibres, so that it might be called the special fascia (obturator) of that muscle. Superiorly it is fixed into the brim of the pelvis for a short distance at the lateral aspect of the cavity. In front of that spot it does not extend so high as the brim, but is inserted into the bone around the attachment of the obturator muscle, except opposite the hole for the obturator vessels and nerve, where it is united with the obturator membrane. Inferiorly the fascia is attached to the hip bone along the side of the pubic arch, and to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament where the obturator internus issues from the pelvis. The outer surface of the fascia is in contact with the obturator muscle. The inner surface corresponds above with the cavity of the pelvis, and below, with the ischio-rectal fossa. With this surface the thin membrane (recto-vesical) supporting the viscera of the pelvis is united ; the place of union being indicated, on looking into the pelvis, by a whitish line near to, and on a level with the ischial spine. At the posterior border of the obturator muscle the fascia is joined by a thin membrane (fascia of the pyriformis), which covers the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus but is beneath the iliac vessels by branches of which it is perforated. The recto-vesical fascia may be now seen in part ; but it will be better displayed after the hip bone has been taken away. Dissection. To obtain a side view of the pelvis (fig. 171) it will be necessary to detach the left innominate bone. The pelvic fascia is first to be separated from the bone and the obturator muscle. The innominate bone is next to be sawn through, in front, rather external to the symphysis, and, behind, at the articulation with the sacrum. After the bone has been pulled somewhat away from the rest of the pelvis, the ischial spine with the recto-vesical fascia attached to it may be cut off with a bone-forceps ; and the piece of the bone may be then removed by cutting through the pyriformis muscle, the vessels and nerves passing through the sacro-sciatic notch, and any other structure that may retain it. A block is afterwards to be placed beneath the pelvis. The bladder is to be moderately distended with air through the ureter, and the urethra is to be tied. Some tow is to be introduced into the rectum, also into the vagina if it is a female pelvis ; and a small piece is to be placed in the pouch of peritoneum between the bladder and the rectum. After the viscera are thus made prominent without distension, the ischial spine and the recto-vesical fascia