DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 202 Each half Each hemisphere is larger in front than behind. Its outer surface is convex ; but the inner is flat, and in contact in front with the opposite half. On the upper aspect the surface of the hemisphere is divided by fissures into lobes, and on the under aspect it is cleft into two large pieces by the fissure of Sylvius. The superficies of is marked the hemisphere is marked by tortuous eminences, the projections on t^nsand1U" ^ being named convolutions or gyri, and the intervening depres- suici. sions, sulci or anfractuosities.0 fissure- Fissures of the Hemisphere. The larger fissures separate the lobes, and the smaller sulci mark the extent of particular convolu- tions. The fissures dividing the hemisphere into lobes are the three following :— Fig. 60.f Sylvian, The fissure of Sylvius ($, fig. 60) begins below at the anterior perforated spot, and directed out between the frontal and temporo- sphenoidal lobes, divides into two pieces, anterior and posterior. fore part, The anterior limb 'S, ascends for a short distance into the frontal lobe. hinder part. The posterior limb, the continuation of the fissure, is directed obliquely upwards and backwards to about the middle of the outer face of the hemisphere. At its extremity it is sometimes divided into smaller sulci. * In the following description of the surface anatomy of the cerebrum I have followed chiefly the arrangement of Professor Turner in his paper " On the Convolutions op the Human Cerebrum ; " and to him I am indebted for permission to copy the woodcuts employed in illustration of his publication. + Lobes of the hemisphere, and convolutions and fissures of the outer surface. —Fr. Frontal lobe. Par. Parietal lobe. Oc. Occipital lobe. TS. Temporo- sphenoidal lobe. R. Fissure of llolando. S. Posterior. 'S. Ascending limb of the Sylvian fissure. PO. Place of the external parietooccipital fissure which is not visible in a side view. IP. Intra-parietal sulcus. P. Parallel sulcus. — 1, inferior ; 2, middle ; and 3, superior frontal gyrus ; 4, ascending frontal ; and 5, ascending parietal gyrus ; 5', parietal lobule ; 6, angular gyrus ; 7, superior; 8, middle ; and 9, inferior temporo-sphenoidal gyrus ; 10, superior ; 11, middle; and 12, inferior occipital convolution. A. Supra-marginal convo- lution—(tj first ; b, second ; c, third ; and d, fourth, annectant gyrus.