PERONEI MUSCLES. 697 groove in the outer border of the cuboid bone, to the sole of the insertion foot. Its position in the foot, and its insertion are described before of\°iie foot (p. 688). In the leg the muscle is immediately beneath the fascia, and lies Position in on the peroneus brevis. Beneath the annular ligament it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle with the peroneus brevis, and is surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus are fixed to the fibula laterally with respect to it, one being on each side. Action. With the foot free the muscle extends the ankle ; then Use on foot it can depress the inner, and raise the outer border of the foot in free' the movement of eversion. When the foot rests on the ground it assists to lift the os calcis, and fixed; and the weight of the body as in standing on the toes, or in walking, on the leg. And in rising from a stooping posture it draws back the fibula. The peroneus brevis (fig. 207,H) reaches the outer side of the foot, Peroneus and is smaller than the preceding muscle, and inferior in position attached to to it. It arises from the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula fibula, for about the lower two thirds, extending upwards by a pointed piece internal to the other peroneus ; and from the intermuscular septum in front. Its tendon passes with that of the peroneus longus through the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon and bone of enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus ^ llttle to its insertion into the projection at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. In the leg the muscle projects in front of the peroneus longus. ^^ec" On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Action. If the foot is unsupported this peroneus extends the Use on foot, ankle, and moves the foot upwards and outwards in eversion. Like the long muscle, it is able if the foot is supported to raise and fixed, the heel, and to bring back the fibula as the body rises from and on the stooping. le8' Section YII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions. In examining the remaining articulations of the limb, Examine the student may take first the knee-joint, unless this has become knee-^oint. dry ; in that case the ligaments of the leg, ankle-joint, and foot may be dissected whilst the knee is being moistened. Dissection. For the preparation of each ligament of the knee- Dissection joint, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons from around t0 see knee it, and to remove the areolar tissue or fibrous structure which may