253 INTERNAL MAMMARY VESSELS. ribs ; and by diminishing the size of the thorax, it becomes an expiratory muscle. The internal mammary artery is a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the sternum, as far as the interval between the sixth and seventh ribs ; there it gives ex- ternally a large muscular branch (musculo-phrenic), and passing beneath the seventh rib, enters the sheath Fig. 72.* of the rectus muscle in the wall of the abdomen. In the chest the artery lies on the pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The follow- ing branches take ori- gin in the thorax :— a. A small branch (comes nervi phrenici) arises as soon as the artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm along the phrenic nerve. b. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to the remains of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni muscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each space, one being placed on the border of each costal cartilage, and termi- nate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. d. Perforating branches, one or two opposite each space, pierce the internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are distributed on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves : the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the wall of the abdomen by perforating the diaphragm : it supplies anterior branches to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination will appear in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 454.) Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk, which opens into the innominate vein. The intercostal nerves, seen now in the anterior half of their extent, are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, and supply Internal mammary mediastinal intercostal, and perforating branches, musculo- phrenic branch. Intercostal nerves : * View from behind of the attachments of the triangularis sterni muscle, a.