DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 514 structure Structure. The moderately-sized hepatic ducts consist of a sfzededmm* frkr011s coat, lined by a mucous layer with cylindrical epithe- lium ; and penetrating the wall is a longitudinal row of openings, on each side, leading iuto sacs, and into branched tubes which and smallest sometimes communicate. In the fine interlobular ducts the coat ducts. -s forme(} ]jj a homogeneous structure, with columnar epithelium (Henle). Lymphatics of the liver are superficial and deep. The superficial of the upper surface join the lymphatics in the thorax by piercing Superficial, the diaphragm, and end for the most part in the sternal glands ; those on the under surface enter chiefly the glands by the side of the abdominal aorta, a few uniting with the deep lymphatics, and the coronary of the stomach. The deep lymphatics accompany the vessels through the liver, and communicate with one of the large contributing trunks of the thoracic duct. Nerves come from the sympathetic and the pneumo-gastric, and ramify with the vessels ; but their mode of ending is not ascertained. Lympha- tics. deep. Nerves, THE GALL-BLADDER. Use and situation; form: size ; connec- tions. Structure of wall. Serous coat. Fibrous and muscular stratum. Mucous layer is areolar on surface, The gall-bladder (fig. 156) is the receptacle of the bile. It is situate in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and to the right of the square lobe. It is pear-shaped, and its larger end (fundus) is directed forwards beyond the margin of the liver ; whilst the smaller end (neck) is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to terminate in the cystic duct by a zigzag part (fig. 160). In length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the widest part. It holds rather more than an ounce. By one surface it is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end touches the abdominal wall opposite the tip of the cartilage of the tenth rib, where it is contiguous to the transverse colon ; and the small end is in contact with the duodenum. Structure. The gall-bladder possesses a peritoneal, a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free surface of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end. The fibrous coat is strong, and forms the framework of the sac ; intermixed with it are some involuntary muscular fibres, the chief being longitudinal, but others circular. The mucous coat is marked internally by numerous ridges and intervening depressions, which give an areolar or honeycomb appearance to the surface. On laying open the gall-bladder this condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to diminish towards each extremity. In the bottom of the larger pits are depressions leading to recesses.