56 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Branches of vessels. Variations in the size of the space also in the depth, "both natural and arti- ficial. Departure from the ordinary state of the artery, and its "branches. Position of veins. Occipital part of space contains clavicle. Behind the artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle,5. And below the vessel is the first rib. Along the lower boundary of the space, and rather beneath the clavicle lie the supra-scapular vessels; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the transverse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein, 8, which descends over or under the omo-hyoideus near the anterior part, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this spot the vein receives the supra-scapular and trans- verse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. The size of the clavicular part of the space from before back is influenced by the attachment of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles along the clavicle : in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of that bone, leaving but a small interval between them ; and in others they meet, so as to cover the under- lying vessels. The space may be further increased or diminished from above down by the position of the omo-hyoideus in the neck; for this muscle may lie close to the clavicle, being attached thereto, or it may be distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies naturally ; and in a short thick neck with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth may be altered much more by the position of the clavicle, according as the limb may be raised or depressed. And lastly, the artery may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards the arm and shoulder, as the collar bone can be raised above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle. The situation of the trunk of the subclavian artery may vary much, for the vessel may be one inch and a half above the clavicle, or at any point intermediate between this and its usual level just above the prominence of that bone. Further, its position to the anterior scalenus may be changed; and instead of the vessel being beneath, it may be in front of, or even between the fibres of that muscle. Commonly there is not any branch connected with the artery in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular branch (fig. 14) may take origin from it at different distances from the scalenus, or there may be more than one branch (Quain). The subclavian vein rises upwards not unfrequently as high as the artery ; or it may even lie with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus in some rare instances. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain ; and the branches connected with its lower end may form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. The occipital part of the posterior triangle is larger than the other. Its boundaries in front and behind are the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius; and it is separated from the clavicular portion by the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cervical plexus ;