618 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. boundaries, roof and floor. Position of femoral artery. Vein. Anterior crural nerve. Lymphatics. Femoral artery; extent, position to lemur and parts around : division into two. Superficial portion : connection with parts around. position of vein and The base of the space is at Poupart's ligament; and the apex is at the meeting of the sartorius with the adductor longus muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the fascia lata, and by the teguments with inguinal glands and superficial vessels. The floor slopes towards the middle, where it is deepest; it is constructed externally by the sartorius, A, and by the conjoined psoas and iliacus, B, for about two inches: and internally by the pectineus and adduc- tor longus muscles, E and f ; and between and beneath these, near the large vessels, is .a small piece of the adductor brevis. The femoral artery runs through the centre of the hollow, and supplies small cutaneous offsets, as well as a large deep branch, the profunda : a small offset (external pudic) is directed from it to the scrotum across the inner boundary. On the inner side of the artery and close to it is placed the femoral vein, which is here joined by the saphenous and profunda branches. About a third of an inch external to the vessel is situate the large anterior crural nerve, which lies deeply at first between the iliacus and psoas, but becomes after- wards more superficial and divides into branches. Deep lymphatics accompany the femoral vessels, and are continued into the iliac glands in the abdomen ; they are joined by the super- ficial lymphatics. Femoral Artery (fig. 195). This vessel is a continuation of the external iliac, and reaches from the lower border of Poupart's liga- ment to the margin of the opening in the adductor magnus muscle ; at that spot it passes into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. Occupying two thirds of the thigh, the course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation outwards of the limb with the knee-joint half bent, by a line drawn from a point midway between the sym- physis pubis and the front of the iliac crest, to the inside of the inner condyle of the femur. In the upper part of its course the" artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, and is comparatively superficial, being un- covered by muscle ; but, lower down, it is placed along the inner side of the shaft of that bone, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its connections allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial part of the artery (fig. 193, a), which is now laid bare, is contained in Scarpa's triangular space, and is about three inches long. Its position in that hollow may be ascertained by the line before mentioned. Incased at first in the crural sheath for about two inches, it is covered by the skin and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata and some inguinal glands. At its beginning the artery rests on the psoas muscle ; and it is subsequently placed over the pectineus, E, though at some distance from it in this position of the limb, and separated from it by fat, and the profunda and femoral veins. Its companion vein (h) is on the inner side and close to it at the pubes, but is placed behind the artery at the apex of the space. The anterior crural nerve lies on the outer side, being distant