SUEFACE MARKING OF LEG. 665 be if the neck was in a line with the rest of the femur. It permits greater , surface- contact ; also greater surface contact between the head of the femur and the surJ hip bone, since the whole head can be lodged in the cotyloid cavity in progression. It gives greater security to the joint in flexion gives and extension, for if the neck and shaft of the bone were in a line, security; only half of the articular surface could enter the socket of the innominate bone in walking, and running. The important move- rotation; ment of rotation is also due to this angle ; and greater space is and greater obtained through it for the location of the adductor muscles on the muscles! inner side of the femur. Dissection. After the limb is removed, the attachments of all the Examine muscles in the thigh are to be examined more minutely before the ^muSs! dissection of the leg is undertaken. The muscles should not be removed from the femur, but about two inches of each should be left for after study. Section IV. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Directions. Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the student Surface should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the promi- markmg* nences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with the markings which indicate the position of the larger vessels. Prominences of bone. The bones of the leg can be traced beneath in the leg the skin from the knee to the ankle joint. On the inner side is the and fibula tibia, which is subcutaneous in all its extent, and is limited in front ^ajUper* and behind by a sharp ridge : above, it presents in front a promi- nent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted ; and below, it ends qn the inner side of the ankle in the internal malleolar projection,^ On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difficulty in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognised below the knee ; and the lower end forms the eminence (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle joint. On the side of the ankle joint are the prominent malleoli; and Ankle-joint, when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus can be felt below the tibia. Muscles and vessels of the leg. On the back of the leg is the swell Behind is of the calf : this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it of tlie descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those muscles tendo are connected with the heel. Between the tendon and the edge of ^illte, the tibia, but nearest the former, is placed the superficial part of vessels, the posterior tibial artery. In front between the tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the ankle and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply ; the position Line of of the vessel will be indicated by a line from the centre of the tibial ankle-joint to the inner side of the head of the fibula. vessels.