347 VENTRICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. Continuity of the fibres. With a piece of muscle rolled into a cone, Fibres con- as before said, the fibres of the different layers would be necessarily tmuous continuous at the apex ; but in the heart they are united at apex and base. Thus the outermost layer is continuous at the apex and at apex and base with the innermost, the fibres being curved in at the tip and base* out at the base. In like manner the fibres of the second layer are united with those of the sixth ; and the third stratum with the fifth. From the three outer layers, fibres are continued to the The com- right ventricle at the back of the heart, forming the " common ^Snd3168 fibres." Each of the three outer layers consists of two sets of fibres, Spiral _ which occupy the front and back of the ventricle. By the turning three outer inwards of the two bundles on opposite sides of the apex, the wall layers- is prevented from having a slanting side, like a piece of paper rolled into a cone. And by the turning outwards of two sets of fibres (anterior and posterior) at the base of the ventricle from each inner layer, the sides of the auriculo-ventricular opening are Course.in made level like those of the apex. Many of the fibres of the outer tnree mner- layers are attached to the fibrous ring around the aorta. The fibres of the fourth layer are continued into the septum ven- In central triculorum. layer. Dissection. To display the layers and fibres of the right ventricle, To show _ great care will be needed because of the thinness of the wall ; but ofrigh^ven- the same number of layers exists in this, as on the other side of the triole. heart. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle ; and reflect the several layers forwards and backwards from that incision. As the three outer are raised let them be traced on the one hand into the part of the septum detached from the left ventricle ; and on the other into the left ventricle through the continuity of the " common fibres" behind. The right ventricle possesses seven layers in its wall, like the Number of left, though they are much thinner. They are arranged as in the layers* other ventricle into three external, three internal, and a fourth or intermediate. In like manner the wall decreases from the centre Thickness, towards the base and apex; but at the tip it is thicker than the apex of the left half of the heart (Pettigrew). Directions of the fibres. In this as in the other ventricle, the fibres Direction of of the three outer layers run down from the base to the fore part fn three of the septum and the apex of the heart : the outer being most outer> vertical. In the fourth stratum the fibres have a transverse clirec- central, tion, as in the corresponding layer of the left ventricle. And in and three the three inner layers they are directed upwards from the apex to limei layeis* the base of the ventricle across the fibres of the three outer strata, the deepest being the most vertical. Continuity of the fibres. The fibres are not distinct from those of Derivation the left ventricle, but are derived in the three outer layers from the JJ^TlaySs " common fibres " and the septum, and from the auriculo-ventricular opening. They are then continued forwards to the front of the