DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 640 Fascia of the ■buttock is thin and un- important. Gluteus maximus. Origin above from pelvis ; inserted be- low into the femur. Connections of the sur- faces and borders. Use on femur free, and fixed. and stooping; standing on "one leg. Divide the gluteus maximus, of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, it will be more convenient to begin the dissection at the upper border ; but if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. The fascia of the buttock is a prolongation of that enveloping the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the hip bone, and to the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker in front of, than on the gluteus maximus, and gives attachment anteriorly to the gluteus medius which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus, the fascia splits to incase the muscle. The gluteus maximus (fig. 197, A) is the most superficial muscle of the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is fleshy, and is connected with bone and with aponeurosis :—Thus, the muscle is attached, from above down, to the posterior third of the iliac crest, and to a special impression on the hip bone below it; next, to the aponeu- rosis covering the multifidus spinas muscle ; then to the back of the lowest piece of the sacrum, and the back of the coccyx ; and lastly to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed outwards to their insertion:—About two thirds of the upper fibres, and a few of the lowest, end in the fascia lata of the outer side of the thigh: and the remainder are fixed for three inches into the lower part of the line leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter of the femur. The gluteus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles the deltoid muscle of the arm in the situation, and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common teguments and the investing fascia of the limb, and by the super- ficial nerves and vessels. The things in contact with the under surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper border overlays the gluteus medius. And the lower edge, which is longer and thicker than the upper, forms the fold of the nates, and bounds posteriorly the perineal space ; beneath the lower border the ham-string muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerves issue. Action. With the femur hanging the muscle extends the hip joint by putting back that bone, and abducts and rotates out the limb. When the limb is fixed, and the body is raised from a sitting into a standing posture, the gluteus acts as an extensor of the articulation by moving back the pelvis. In standing both muscles assist in keeping the pelvis balanced on its props ; and in rising from stooping they are the active agents in bringing upright the pelvis. When the body is supported on one leg the muscle can draw the sacrum towards the femur, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 198). The gluteus maximus is to be cut across near the pelvis, and without injury to the subjacent sacro-sciatic ligament to which the lower fibres are closely joined. The depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia and some vessels beneath it. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer