307 POSTEKIOE, INTEROSSEOUS VESSELS. preceding muscles ; and from the interosseous ligament below. Origin Near the annular ligament the tendon becomes free from muscular fibres, and passing through that band with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied to, and blends with the external tendon of and inser- that muscle in the expansion on the phalanx of the forefinger. tlon* Until this muscle has passed the liganent it is covered by the superficial layer, but it is afterwards subaponeurotic. Action. The muscle can point the fore finger even when the three Use. inner fingers are bent, inclining it towards the others at the same time. And it will help the common extensor of the digitis in pull- ing back the hand. Dissection. To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary Dissection to detach the anconeus from the external condyle of the humerus, £re^s.inator and to cut through the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, the fleshy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. The supinator brevis, D, surrounds the upper end of the radius, ^hort^supi- except at the tubercle and along a slip of bone below it. It arises nator; from a depression below the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, from the external margin of the bone for two inches below that pit, and from the orbicular ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint. The fibres pass outwards, and ^J^inser" are inserted into the upper third or more of the radius, except at the inner part, reaching downwards to the insertion of the pronator teres, and forwards to the hollowed anterior surface. The supinator is concealed altogether at the posterior and external Overling aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial layer ; and anteriorly the radial vessels and nerve lie over it. The lower border is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only the pos- and con- terior interosseous vessels (a) intervening. Through the substance p|^gUS of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve (3) winds to the back of the limb. Action. When the radius has been moved over the ulna as in Use. pronation, the short supinator comes into play to bring that bone again to the outer side of the ulna. The posterior interosseous artery (fig. 88, a) is an offset from the ^rcwseoTis common interosseous trunk (p. 286), and reaches the back of the artery forearm above the ligament between the bones. Appearing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi, the artery descends at first between the superficial and between the I&vers oi deep layers of muscles ; and afterwards, with a superficial position muscles, in the lower third of the forearm, along the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris as far as the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing and super- with the carpal and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes muscular offsets to the contiguous muscles, except the two or three outer ; and the following recurrent branch :— The recurrent branch (b) springs from the artery near the com- Its recur- x 2 rent branch.