430 DISSECTION OF THE PERIN/EUM. Use. Constrictor of urethral passage. Transverse part arises from pubic arch, and ends in middle line. Like a sphincter. Use on urethra in mictu- rition. Circular fibres of urethra. from the prostate to bulb. Use. Cowper's glands. Situation, size, and structure. Action. Like the superficial muscle it will fix the central point of the perinasum. The constrictor muscle (fig. 131, constrictor isthmi urethralis) encloses the membranous part of the urethra, and consists of trans- verse fibres above and below that tube. The muscle arises by aponeurotic fibres from the pubic arch above the preceding, and from the posterior layer of the triangular liga- ment, but this attachment is not evident unless it has been dissected from behind. The fibres pass inwards, and separate near the urethra into two layers (fig. 132), of which one (c) passes over, the other (d) under that canal; in the middle line they unite (sometimes by tendon) with the like parts of the muscle of the opposite side. It may be considered a single muscle extending across the perinEeum from one lateral at- tachment to the other, and en- closing the tube of the urethra, like the sphincter ani encircles the rectum. Action. The muscles of both sides act as a single sphincter in diminishing the membranous part of the urethra, and eject- ing the contents of the tube. Like the ejaculator, they are relaxed whilst the urine is passing, but the two contract forcibly in expelling the last of that fluid. Involuntary circular fibres within the constrictor muscle surround the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about •^th of an inch thick ; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous behind with the circular fibres of the prostate. This layer is a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate is chief part, surrounding the beginning of the urethra.f Action. This involuntary layer assists in moving forwards the urine and the semen. The glands of Cowper will be found by cutting through the trans- verse muscle. They are situate below the membranous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle line, and close behind the bulb. Each gland is about the size of a pea, and is made up of lobules ; and the lobules are composed of small vesicles, which are lined by flattened epithelium. * The symphysis pubis seen from behind with part of the urinary bladder and the prostate, and with the tube of the urethra surrounded by the con- strictor muscle (Santorini). a, Bladder cut open : the swelling of the prostate surrounds it in front, b. Constrictor urethrse :—c. Part of the muscle above, and d, part underneath the urethra. t See a Paper on the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Urethra, in vol. xxxix. 1856, of the Trans, of the Roy. Med. Chir. Society.