INTERNAL LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. 157 Action. Rotating the arytenoid cartilage by moving inwards the Use. projection on the outer side of the base, it replaces the cartilage after this has been everted by the crico-arytasnoideus posticus. It may also approach the one vocal cord to the other, and so narrow the glottis. The THYRO-ARYTiENOIDEUS muscle (fig. 41) extends from the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of the depth, and from the crico-thyroid liga- ment. The fibres are di- rected backwards with dif- ferent inclinations ; — The external,4, ascend somewhat and are inserted into the upper part of the outer sur- face of the arytenoid carti- lage, and blend with the depressor of the epiglottis. The internal and lower fibres, 8, are transverse, and form a thick bundle, which is in- serted into the fore part of the base of that cartilage, and into the outer surface. By its outer surface the muscle is in contact with the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of thedarynx and the pouch. Action. It moves forward the arytenoid cartilage towards the thyroid, and relaxes the vocal cord. By a thin band of fibres along the upper edge the rima glottidis can be narrowed, and the vocal cord put into the vocalizing position. The depressor of the epiglottis (fig. 41, 5 thyro-arytasno- epiglottideus) is a thin muscular layer by the side of the upper opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise posteriorly from the front of 1 the arytaenoid cartilage, some being continuous below with fibres of the arytenoid and thyro-arytsenoid muscles ; and anteriorly by a narrow slip from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line. From those attachments the fibres turn upwards with very different * View of the internal muscles of the larynx. 1. Crico-thyroideus detached. 2. Crico-arytaenoideus posticus. 3. Crico-arytsenoideus lateralis. 4. Thyro- arytsenoideus, superficial part. 5. Depressor of the epiglottis. 6. Thyro- hyoideus, cut. 8. Deep or transverse part of thyro-aryttenoideus. Depressor ot epiglottis;