439 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AND NERVES. rectus muscle, and increasing in size from above down, supply the J^^r integuments on the side of the belly ; they furnish offsets to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is larger than Last dorsal the rest, and does not divide like the others. After piercing the nerve- fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region (p. 638). The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen pierce the sheath of Anterior the rectus : in the integuments they bend outwards towards the Serves oT lateral cutaneous nerves. The number, and the situation of these intercostal, small nerves, are very uncertain. The ilio-hypogastric nerve is distributed by two pieces : one passes Ilio-hypo- over the crista ilii (iliac branch), the other ramifies on thl lower fl^Ji^!lcrof part of the abdomen (hypogastric branch) :— plexus: (a) The iliac branch lies close to the crest of the hip bone near iliac branch, the last dorsal nerve, and enters the fat of the gluteal region, p. 638. (b) The hypogastric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the exter- hypogastric nal oblique muscle above the abdominal ring, and is distributed to the fat of the lower part of the abdomen. The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the external Hio-inguinai abdominal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum, and piexuS°f the upper and inner parts of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous vessels run with both sets of J^^Jf 0™. nerves on the abdomen :—with the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries ; and with the anterior cutaneous are offsets from the intercostal, internal mammary, and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac. The lateral cutaneous arteries have the same distribution as the both lateral nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The anterior cutaneous vessels are irregular in numbei and in posi- and anterior tion, like the nerves. After piercing the sheath of the rectus, they cutaneoUb- run outwards with the nerves towards the other set of branches. Branches of the femoral artery. Three cutaneous offsets ascend From from the thigh between the layers of the subcutaneous fat, and arter^three ramify in the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of branches; the abdomen. The greater portion of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh. The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the spermatic external cord, to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the 1>udlc' under part of the penis. The superficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligament, superficial near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high as the ein°astnc> umbilicus. The circumflex iliac branch lies usually below the level of the circumflex iliac. iliac crest, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. Small veins accompany the arteries, and join the internal saphe- Veins, ous vein of the thigh.