DUCT AND VESSELS OF TESTIS. 527 urethra. The length of this part of the excretory duct is about two length and feet, and the width of its canal about ^th of an inch. sue- Opening sometimes into the vas deferens, at the angle of union Vasaberrans with the epididymis, is a small narrow cascal appendage, the vas presentT^ aberrans of Haller (fig. 1G7, I). It is convoluted, and projects up- situation wards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like and size, the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled : its capacity is greatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. Structure. The excretory duct of the testis has a thick muscular Two coats coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined inter- d(u™-the nally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour, but it is thinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres a muscular, arranged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous membrane is marked by longitudinal folds in theanda ., „, -i-i* i-i - i in mucous, straight part ot the canal, and by irregular ridges m the sacculated portion. A columnar epithelium, though not ciliated, covers the inner surface ; but in the epididymis it is ciliated (Becker). Organ of Giraldes.1' In the spermatic cord of the fetus and child, close above the epididymis, is a small whitish granular-looking body (" Corps Innomine," Giraldes), about half an inch long—the ^j^J^^ remains of the lower part of the Wolffian body of the embryo, body, With slight magnifying power its component white granules are consti- resolved into small vesicles, and convoluted tubes of varying shape, tueuts> filled with a clear thick fluid ; their wall consists of a thin membrane, structure, lined by flattened epithelium, with plexuses of bloodvessels ramify- ing on the exterior. Bloodvessels and nerves of the testicle. The branches of the sper- spermatic matic artery supply offsets to the epididymis, and pierce the back ai 61 y" of the testicle to enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea ; and offsets are continued on the fine septa to the seminal tubules, on which they are distributed in capillary plexuses. The spermatic vein begins by radicles in the plexuses around the Spermatic seminal tubes, and issues from the gland at the back, being there vem' joined by veins from the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its branches form the spermatic plexus ; it joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 537). The arrangement of the lymphatics in the testicle is unknown ; Lymphatics external to that body they ascend on the bloodvessels, and join the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the and nerves, arteries to the testis : their ending has not been seen. * Sur un Organe place dans le Cordon Spermatique, et dont l'existence n'a pas et^ signalee par les Anatomistes. Par F. Giraldes. Proceedings of the Iloyal Society for May, 1858.