DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 290 vessels and nerves, and expose digital sheaths. Cutaneous palmar nerves. One of median, other of ul- nar nerve. Palmaris brevis is subcutane- ous, and ends in the skin. Use. Palmar fascia. Its central part ends in a piece for each finger, and in the skin. Dissection. Deep ending of the pieces of fascia. the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise, near the digits, the digital vessels and nerves; and must be especially careful of two,—viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be defined. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid bare. Cutaneous palmar nerves. Some unnamed twigs are furnished to the integument from both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two named cutaneous nerves ramify in the palm. One is an offset of the median nerve (p. 287), and crosses the annular ligament: it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is united with the palmar branch of the ulnar : a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 286) ; it has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand, and its distribu- tion in the palm may be now observed. The palmaeis brevis (fig. 83, h) is a small subcutaneous muscle, about two inches wide, whose fibres are collected into separate bundles. It is attached on the outer side to the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed inwards to join the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar artery and nerve. After it has been examined it may be thrown inwards with the skin. Action. Drawing the skin of the inner border of the hand towards the centre, it deepens the hollow or cup of the palm. The palmar fascia or aponeurosis consists of a central and two lateral parts ; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require separate notice. The central part is a strong, white layer, which is pointed at the wrist, but is expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Posteriorly the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament ; and anteriorly it ends in four processes, which are continued for- wards, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the pieces from one another some transverse fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbricalis muscle, and the digital vessels and nerve appearing at this spot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are prolonged to the integuments near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. To follow one of the digital processes of the fascia to its termination, the superficial fibres being first removed, it may be divided longitudinally by inserting the knife beneath it opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Ending of the processes. Each process of the fascia sends down- wards an offset on each side of the tendons, which is fixed to the deep ligament connecting together the ends of the metacarpal bones, and to the edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distance.