207 MUSCLES OF THE ARM. And to keep in place the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb, these should be tied together with string in their natural position to one another, and fastened to the coracoid process. Position. The limb is still to lie on the back, but the scapula is ^^tion of to be raised by means of a small block ; and the bladebone is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. Dissection. The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the front of Dissection i i ... -a , ,., , ,, , of muscles the arm by an incision along the centre, like that through the integuments ; and it is to be removed on the outer side as far as the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be and vessels, carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle ; and to prevent the displacement of the brachial artery and its nerves, fasten them here and there with stitches. In front of the elbow is a hollow containing the brachial vessels : and elbow the artery should be followed into it, to show its ending in the radial and ulnar trunks. Muscles on the Front of the Arm. There are only three Position of muscles on the front of the arm. The one along the centre of the of the^nih* limb is the biceps ; and that along its inner side, reaching about half way down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachialis anticus lies beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the inner and outer condyles of the humerus, and to the ridge above the outer condyle. The biceps muscle (fig. 78, B) forms the prominence observable Biceps has on the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either ? ®ho^t a™1 i i. . „ long head. end ; and the upper end consists of two tendinous pieces of dif- ferent lengths, which are attached to the scapula. The short head Origin from arises from the apex of the coracoid process in common with the the bcapula* coraco-brachialis muscle (fig. 73) ; and the long head is attached to the upper part of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, within the capsule of the shoulder joint (fig. 89). Muscular fibres spring from each tendinous head, and blend about the middle of the arm in a fleshy belly, which is somewhat flattened from before back. In- insertion feriorly the biceps ends in a tendon, and is inserted into the tubercle into radius- of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at the extremities. At the upper ?arts cover- part it is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; ° and at the lower end the tendon dips into the hollow in front of the elbow, having previously given an offset to the fascia of the arm. Beneath the biceps are the brachialis anticus muscle, the and beneath musculocutaneous nerve, and the upper part of the humerus. Its " , ., • xxx Inner border inner border is the guide to the brachial artery below the middle of iS guide to the humerus, but above that spot the coraco-brachialis muscle inter- the arteiT- venes between them. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shoulder joint, and the insertion of the muscle into the radius, will be afterwards learnt.