461 UMBILICAL HERNIA. life cannot determine whether it began originally in the triangular space, or at the internal abdominal ring ; for as an external hernia increases, its weight drags inwards the internal ring into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling acquires the appearance of a direct rupture. Seat of stricture. The stricture in this form of hernia occurs most stricture, frequently external to the neck of the tumour, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum : and it may occasionally situation, be found at the external abdominal ring. Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid to free from bare, and all fibrous bands around it are to be divided without in- stricture; jury to the peritoneum ; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot be put backwards into the abdomen, the sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. In the operation on a large rupture appearing to be direct, the in large operator should cut on the front and mid-part of the tumour, so as herma- to avoid the epigastric vessels, whose lateral position cannot be known. Variety of internal hernia. Another kind of internal hernia (superior) Rarer kind occurs through that part of the area of the triangular space which 2eSiamal is external to the conjoined tendon. Its existence is determined by the unusual position of the obliterated hypogastric artery inside the abdominal wall (p. 462). The intestine protrudes through the wall of the abdomen close to is oblique in the epigastric artery, and descends along nearly the whole of the blithe inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring; so that the term cord- " direct" would not apply strictly to this form of internal hernia. Coverings. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal Coverings canal, it has coverings exactly the same in number and kind as the ii^xteraai" external hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic nernia- and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia transversalis, and the subperitoneal fat with the peritoneum. Diagnosis. This form of internal hernia would be considered Diagnosis external during life from its course and its form ; and yet it must jn iife. be remembered that the epigastric vessels are placed on the outer part of its neck, whilst in the hernia which it stimulates, they lie on the inner side. Its nature can be ascertained with certainty only after death. Seat of stricture. The constriction of the intestine will take place stricture at from similar causes, and at the same spots as in the external hernia, ^"external Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in Division of the living body whether a small hernia is internal or external, ,the stricture, rule observed in dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of the tumour ; and if it is necessary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine Umbilical through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in ieinia' size, and its course is straight through the abdominal wall. Course.