DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 156 Use. Kerato- cricoideus. Arytse- noideus; dejp trans- verse fibres, superficial oblique. Use. Dissection of internal muscles. Remove half of cartilage. Position of muscles. Lateral crico-arytse- noideus is beneath thyroid cartilage. Action, It rotates the arytenoid cartilage, turning out the lateral projection at the base, and enlarges the interval between the carti- lages. At the same time the upper orifice of the larynx is widened by the separation from each other of its lateral boundaries. Musculus kerato-cricoideus (Merkel). This is a small fleshy slip which is occasionally seen below and close to the preceding muscle ; it arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back of the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The ARYTiENOiDEUS is a single muscle in the middle line (fig. 40, B), and is placed on the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages : it possesses two sets of fibres, superficial and deep, with different directions. The deep fibres, B, are transverse, and are inserted into the outer border and the posterior surface of each cartilage ; they close the interval between the cartilages. The superficial fibres, A, consist of two oblique fasciculi, which cross like the parts of the letter X, each passing from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other : a few of these fibres are continued beyond the cartilage to join the thyro-arytsenoid muscle and the depressor of the epi- glottis. Action. The muscle causes the small arytenoid cartilages to glide towards one another, and diminishes much, or may close the rima glottidis. Acting with the depressors of the epiglottis it will assist in shutting the upper orifice of the larynx. Dissection. The remaining muscles and the vocal apparatus would be learnt better on a fresh larynx, if this can be obtained. To bring into view the muscles, which are concealed by the thyroid cartilage (fig. 41), it will be necessary to remove the right half of the carti- lage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch from the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the cricoid. By dividing next the crico-tlryroid membrane attached to the lower edge, and the thyro-hyoid ligament connected with the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating the subjacent areolar tissue from it. By the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define inferiorly the lateral crico-arytamoid muscle ; above it, the thyro- arytamoideus muscle ; and still higher, the thin muscular fibres (depressor of the epiglottis) in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. On cleaning the fibres of the thyro-arytamoideus near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glands will appear above the fleshy fibres. The crico-aryt^noideus lateralis (fig. 41 :i) is a small lengthened band, which arises from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the lateral aspect ; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted into a projection on the outer side of the base of the arytasnoid cartilage, and into the contiguous part of the outer sur- face. This muscle is concealed by the crico-thyroideus, and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle.