CONNECTIONS OF STOMACH. 467 the dissection of the abdomen, the pelvic portion will receive a peivis after, separate notice (p. 545). Regions. The upper part of the abdominal cavity is divided into Abdominal regions by lines extended between certain points of the parietes. cavity1S If two circular lines are carried round the body, so that one shall marked out be opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib, and the other on a level with the most prominent point of the crest of the hip bone, the cavity will be divided into three circles or zones, upper, middle, and lower. Each of these circles has been further subdivided into three by a Three lateral line, on each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the centre g^011 of Poupart's ligament. The piece marked off, on each side, from the three circles by the vertical line is named respectively, from above downwards, hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac ; whilst the central part of each circle is designated from above down, epigas- and three trie, umbilical, and hypogastric. central. In addition, the middle and lower part of the hypogastric space Subdivi- is named pubic region, whilst the contiguous portions of the hypo- S10ns' gastric and iliac constitute the inguinal region. Contents and their position. The alimentary tube, the liver, pan- Things in creas, spleen, and kidney, occupy the abdomen proper. Superficial view. On first opening the abdomen the following Viscera seen viscera appear:—On the right side is the liver, which is partly ^piace- concealed by the ribs. On the left side a piece of the stomach is ment. visible ; but this viscus lies mostly beneath the ribs and the liver. Descending from the stomach is a fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and conceals the small intestine : in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the intestine uncovered. If the bladder is distended, a small part of it may come into view just above the pelvis, but commonly it is not seen. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided General into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine : and the two last alimentary are further sub-divided, as it will afterwards appear. The several tube: viscera have the following general position :—The small intestine J^^n of is much coiled, and occupies the greater part of the cavity ; whilst parts: the great intestine arches around it. Both are fixed in position by pieces of the serous lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are situate the stomach, the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas ; |n^f and below it, is the convoluted small gut. Behind the large intes- tine, on each side, is the kidney with its excretory tube. Before the natural position of the viscera is disturbed, their Connections oi viscera situation in the different regions of the abdomen, and their COnnec- to be seen, tions with surrounding parts should be examined. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA. The stomach (fig. 140, a) intervenes between the gullet and the Position of small intestine, and is partly retained in position by pieces of the serous membrane. It is somewhat of a conical form, with the h h 2