GLOTTIS AND LARYNGEAL POUCH. 159 arytenoid cartilage, and is the narrowest part of the laryngeal cavity. Its sides are constructed partly of ligament and partly of carti- £f0^strac" lage :—thus, for about the two anterior thirds is the elastic vocal cord (fig. 42, B), whilst at the posterior third is the smooth inner surface of the arytenoid cartilage, E. Behind it is bounded by the arytenoid muscle ; and in front by the thyroid cartilage and the attachments of the vocal cords. The size of the interval differs in the two sexes. In the male it size differs, measures from before back nearly an inch (less a line), and across at the base, when dilated, about a third of the other measurement. In the female the dimensions will be less by two or three lines. Alterations in the size and form affect the interval where it is Changes bounded by the cartilages, as well as where it is limited by the 111 slze' ligaments. In the former part, the changes are occasioned by the in two ways, movements of the arytenoid cartilages ; but in the latter they are due to the lengthening and shortening of the bands. In the state of rest it is a narrow fissure which is enlarged a Form in little behind and rounded ; but when dilated it is triangular in rest- form, like the upper orifice, though its base is turned backwards to the arytsenoid muscle. In the living body the fissure is larger in Action of inspiration than in expiration. The muscles too are constantlythe muscles> producing alterations in the fissure, some acting more immediately on the cartilages as dilators and contractors of the base ; and others altering the state of the ligaments,—elongating and shorten- on sides, ing the sides. The base is enlarged, and the interval rendered triangular by the on base, posterior crico-arytenoid ; and is diminished by the arytenoid, and the lateral crico-arytaanoid. And the ligamentous sides are elon- gated and made tense by the crico-thyroidei; but are shortened by the thyro-arytsenoidei. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 42, A) is best seen on the left Ventricle, side. It is the oval hollow between the vocal cords, whose upper margin is semilunar, and the lower straight. It is lined by the Situation, mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-arytgenoid muscle. In the anterior end is the aperture into the laryngeal pouch. The laryngeal pouch (sacculus laryngis) (fig. 42, D), has been laid Pouch of bare partly on the right side by the removal of the half of the larynx- thyroid cartilage (p. 156), but it will be seen again in the subsequent dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, half an inch deep and cylindrical Form and in form, which projects upwards between the upper vocal cord and P0Sltl0n- the thyroid slip of the depressor of the epiglottis, and reaches some- times as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Its cavity communicates with the front of the ventricle by a somewhat narrow aperture. On the outer surface are numerous small glands, Surroimd- whose ducts are transmitted through-the coats of the sac to the lngpaits* inside. Small nerves are distributed over the top. Its upper part is covered by the muscular slip before referred to.