353 CAVA AND INNOMINATE VEINS. receives the internal mammary, the inferior thyroid, and the superior intercostal of its own side ; and the left vein is joined in addition by some small thymic and pericardiac veins. Sometimes the innominate veins are not united in the vena cava, Sometimes hut descend separately to the heart, where each has a distinct separately opening in the right auricle. When such a condition exists, the jj^the right vein takes the course of the upper cava in front of the root of the right lung; but the left vein descends in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch connects the two above the heart.* This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very When this early period of the growth of the fetus ; and two vessels are also 111 persistent in some mammalia. Change of the two veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two during the growth of the fetus, to produce the arrangement common in the Fe changed adult, concern the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. into one' First the cross branch between the two trunks enlarges, and forms the future left innominate vein. Next the left trunk below the cross branch disappears at its middle, and undergoes transformations at each end :—At the upper end and coro- it becomes converted into the superior intercostal vein. At the lower part it jj^^11118 remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary sinus ; and even the 0rme small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 336), is a remnant of the trunk of the vein that lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a vestige of the occluded vessel in the form of a fold of Vestige in the serous membrane of the pericardium in front of the root of the left lung ; ^rdmro this Mr. Marshall names the vestigial fold of the pericardium (p. 333). f The inferior or ascending cava enters the right auricle as soon inferior as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches join the vein in the cava- thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen (p. 536). The pulmonary veins are two on each side. They issue from the Four pul- fissure of the root of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their ^ins!7 position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 332. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath the aorta Right veins and the right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots °n°eS' from the upper and middle pulmonic lobes, and the inferior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one Left veins, springs from each lobe of the lung. nerves of the thorax. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera Nerves of of the thorax. Through the cavity courses the phrenic nerve to the 16 101 ax' diaphragm. Dissection. The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for its exa- To trace the nerves, * An example of two large vessels, " double vena cava," opening into the right auricle in the adult, is contained in the Museum of University College. f See a paper by Mr. Marshall on the development of the veins of the neck (Philosoph. Transac. 1850.) A A