SHEATH OF RECTUS MUSCLE. 449 The muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath, except above and below ; and its fibres are interrupted at intervals by irregular tendinous lines,—the inscriptiones tendineaB. Action. It will draw down the thorax and the ribs, or raise the pelvis, according as its fixed point may be above or below. Besides imparting movement to the trunk, it will diminish the cavity of the thorax, and compress the viscera. Sheath of the rectus, D. This sheath is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the muscle. One piece passes before and the other 16'• under the rectus; and the two unite at the inner border so as to enclose it in a sheath. Inseparably blended with the stratum in front of the rectus is the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar man- ner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient behind, both at the up- per and lower end of the muscle. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the intervention of the sheath which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, mid- way between the umbi- licus and the pubes, the internal oblique ceases to split, and passes alto- gether in front of the rectus, with the other aponeuroses. At the spot where the sheath is wanting inferiorily the muscle is in contact with the fascia transversalis, and a white semilunar line (the fold of Douglas) may be sometimes seen, when the outer edge of the rectus is raised, marking the cessation. The linecB transversa (fig. 137), on the surface of the abdomen are caused by tendinous intersections of the rectus. They are usually three in number, and have the following position ; one is opposite the umbilicus, another at the ensiform cartilage, and the * Rectus muscle of the abdomen, dissected on the right side, and in its sheath on the left. Close to the pelvis the pyramidalis is exposed, a. Rectus, b. Internal oblique. 0. Poupart's ligament, d. Sheath of the rectus. Has cross tendons. Use on trunk, on abdomen. Its sheath, how formed; Linese transversae are three or more. Situation.