751 SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. extremity which is called the ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about -L-th of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and horizontal. The superior vertical canal (a) crosses the upper border of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked by the ampulla, whilst the inner is joined with the following. The posterior vertical tube (b) is directed backwards from its junction with the preceding towards the posterior surface of the temporal bone ; the upper end is united with the superior ver- Fig. 243.* tical canal, and the lower end is free and dilated. The horizontal canal (c) has separate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. -Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovalis ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth. A thin fibrous perios- teal membrane lines the vesti- bule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous with the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the vestibule. On the outer wall of .the cavity it stretches over the fenestra ovalis ; and in front it is prolonged into the cochlea through the aperture of the scala vestibuli (fig. 242, g). The outer surface of the membrane is adherent to the bone ; but the inner is covered by a single layer of flattened epithelium. It is supplied by the vestibular vessels ; and it secretes a thin serous fluid, liquor Cotunnii, or perilymph, which surrounds the membran- ous labyrinth, and occupies for a short distance the aqueduct : this fluid also fills the scalaB of the cochlea. Cochlea. This part of the osseous labyrinth has a position anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a spiral shell. Dissection. To obtain a view of the cochlea it will be needful to cut or file away the bone between the promontory of the tympanum and the meatus auditorius internus, on the preparation before used * Eepresentation of the semicircular canals enlarged (from a model in University College Museum). a, Upper vertical ; 6, posterior vertical ; and c, horizontal canal, d. Common opening of the two vertical canals, e. Part of the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule. Form and size. They are named superior vertical, posterior vertical, has an epithelium, and con- tains a fluid. Cochlea. Dissection for it in dry