SPONGY BONES AND MEATUSES. 135 ethmoid bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nerve and vessels ; in the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and in it are Floor, the palate and superior maxillary bones—their palate processes. Near the front in the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner boundary (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly inner cartilaginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the buunclary perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the partly frontal and nasal with which this last bone articulates. The irregu- osseous' lar space in front in the prepared skull is filled in the recent state partly carti- by the triangular cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the laomous- partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the anterior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal bones, this cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge between the superior maxillee, and projects even between the carti- lages of each nostril. The septum nasi is commonly bent to one side. The outer boundary has the greatest extent and the most irregular ^J^da surface. Six bones enter into its formation, and they come in the following order from before backwards :—the nasal and superior maxillary : the small os unguis with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone : and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone : of these, the ^"n^ones nasal, ungual, and ethmoidal reach only about half way from roof to floor, whilst the others extend the whole depth. Altogether in front of the bones, the lateral cartilages may be said to construct part of this boundary. On this wall are three convoluted osseous pieces, named spongy ^f^^. or turbinate bones (fig. 31), which project into the cavity :—the two extent of upper (*) and (2), are processes of the ethmoid, but the lower one (3), spongy is a separate bone—the inferior spongy. The spongy bones are con- bones' fined to a certain portion of the outer wall, and their extent would be limited by a line continued nearly vertically upwards to the roof of the cavity from both the front and back of the hard palate. Between each turbinate bone and the wall of the nose is a longitu- presents dinal hollow or meatus; and into these hollows the nasal duct and hollows- the sinuses of the surrounding bones open. The meatuses are the spaces arched over by the spongy bones; and Meatuses, as the bones are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so are the spaces beneath them. The upper one (fig. 31,°) is the smallest and straightest of the Upper three meatuses, and occupies the posterior half of the space included meatus- by the vertical lines before mentioned. Into it the posterior eth- moidal sinuses open at the front ; and at its posterior end, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatine foramen by which nerves and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus (fig. 31,7) is longer than the preceding ; it is Middle curved upwards in front, and reaches all across the space referred meatus*