DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 20 Sympathetic forms carotid plexus, cavernous plexus; union with cranial nerves. Distribu- tion. Three petro- sal nerves. Two seen in base of skull. Directions for preser- ving parts. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissec- tion of the base of the brain (p. 182). Sympathetic Nerve. Around the carotid artery is a prolongation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which forms the following- plexuses :— The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is connected with that offset of the upper cervical ganglion which courses along the- inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either sepa- rately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming those plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are lost chiefly in the cerebral membrane named pia mater : but some ascend on the cerebral and ophthalmic branches of that vessel, and one offset is said to enter the eyeball with the central artery of the retina. Petrosal nervts (fig. 35). Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 35,2) entering the hiatus Fallopii to join the facial nerve. External to this is occasionally seen* another small petrosal nerve (fig. 35, 4) {external superficial), which springs from the sympathetic on the large meningeal artery, and enters the bone to join the facial nerve. A third, the small petrosal; nerve (fig. 35, 3), is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. The source, and the destination of those three small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to note the two first, and to see that they are kept moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. Now the base of the skull has been completed a preservative fluid or salt should be applied, and the flaps of the teguments should be stitched together over all. Section III. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Position of bodv. Dissection. Directions. The left side of the face may be used for learning: the muscles and vessels, and the right side is to be reserved for the nerves. Position. The previous position of the head for the examination? of the base of the skull will require to be changed :—the head is. to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dissected is to be put upwards and fixed with hooks. Dissection. As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres of the apertures may be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantity