272 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. beneath the fascia. Musculo- cutaneous nerve in the arm. Its muscular branches. Dissection. Define brachialis. Brachialis anticus. Origin. Insertior. Connection of surfaces, of borders. Use, fore- arm free, joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the integument (p. 266). The musculo-cutaneous nerve (nerv. perforans, Casserii), named from supplying muscles and integuments, ends on the surface of the fore- arm. Jt leaves the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor (fig. 70) and perforates directly the coraco-brachialis : it is then directed obliquely to the outer side of the limb between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. Near the elbow it becomes a cutaneous nerve of the forearm. Branches. The nerve furnishes branches to the muscles in front of the humerus, viz., the coraco-brachialis as it passes through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus where it is placed between them. Dissection. The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be well defined on each side, so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is required in detaching the brachialis externally from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely applied. As the muscles are separated the musculo-spiral nerve with a small artery comes into sight. The brachialis anticus (fig. 78, H) covers the elbow-joint, and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid muscle ; and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, viz., from all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer (about one inch and a half). The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna (p. 289). This muscle is concealed by the biceps. On it lies the brachial artery, with the median, musculo-cutaneous, and musculo-spiral nerves. It covers the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two pieces the attachment of the deltoid; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy points of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border reaches the intermuscular septum in all its length ; but the outer is separated below from the external intermuscular septum by two muscles of the fore- arm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior), which extend upwards on the humerus. Action. The brachialis brings forwards the ulna towards the humerus, and bends the elbow-joint. If the ulna is fixed, as in climbing with the hands above the head, the muscle bends the joint by raising the humerus.