683 THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. liollow below the inner projection (sustentaculum tali) of the cs calcis, being enveloped by a synovial membrane. Action. For the action of this muscle on the great toe, see page Use on first 671. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the flexor and other longus going to the second and third toes, it may bend those digits toes' with the great toe. Dissection (fig.'210). For the dissection of the third layer of Dissect muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexor are to 0f muscles, be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes. Whilst raising the tendons the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with ; and two small nerves and vessels to the outer two lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third layer of muscles (fig. 210). Only the short muscles of Third layer the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal consistent' bone of the great toe the flexor brevis pollicis lies, and external to it is the adductor pollicis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the transversalis pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the adductor pollicis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interossei muscles of the next layer. The flexor brevis pollicis muscle (fig. 210, A) is tendinous and-^1® pointed posteriorly,, but bifurcated in front. It is attached behind Orio.in to the inner part of the under surface of the cuboid bone, and to a prolongation from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. ' Near the front of the metatarsal bone of the great toe-it divides into two heads, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the metatarsal insertion, phalanx. Resting on the muscle at one part, and in the interval between £™ec" the heads at another, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first phalanx it flexes the meta- ^ton the tarso-phalangeal joint of the big toe. The adductor pollicis (fig. 210, B), which is larger than the Adductor preceding muscle and external to it, arises from the sheath of the pullicis tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united joins outer with the outer head of the short flexor, and is inserted with it into si10rt flexor, the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath the outer Covers border the external plantar vessels and nerve are directed inwards. aJc5}tai Action. Its first action will be to adduct the great toe to the Use on others, and it will help afterwards in bending the metatarso- toe- phalangeal joint of the toe. The transversalis pedis (fig. 210, D) is placed transversely over Transversa- ihe heads of the metatarsal bones. Its origin is by fleshy bundles lls pedls: