DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 64 covered by the common integuments, by the platysma and deep fascia, and by the external jugular vein and the superficial branches of the cervical plexus (across the middle). If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the folloAving parts :—The clavicular origin is superficial to the anterior scalenus and omo-hyoid muscles ; and the sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery with its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus, and the middle scalenus and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skull on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital artery, and part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. Tjse. Action. Both muscles acting bend the head forwards ; but one muscle will turn the face to the opposite side. In conjunction with the muscles attached to the mastoid process one sterno-mastoideus will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two muscles will assist in elevating the sternum. Omo-hyoid The omo-hyoid muscle crosses beneath the sterno-mastoideus, muscle anci consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small round inter- thescaptda, mediate tendon (fig. 14, 3). The origin of the muscle from the scapula, and the connections of the posterior part, are to be and ends at studied in the dissection of the Back. From the intervening hyoid bone, tendon the anterior fleshy belly (fig. 15, 3) is directed upwards along the outer border of the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great cornu. Connec- The anterior belly is in contact with the fascia, after escaping tions. from beneath the sterno-mastoid ; and rests on the sterno-thyroideus. This part of the muscle crosses the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Use. Action. The anterior belly depresses the hyoid bone ; and the posterior is said by Theile to make tense the deep fascia of the neck with which it is connected, sterno- The sterno-hyoid muscle (fig. 15, 2) is a flat thin band nearer hyoid the middle line than the preceding. It arises from the posterior muscle. surface 0f the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib. From this spot the fibres ascend, and are inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides, internal to the preceding muscle. Parts over One surface is in contact with the fascia, and is often marked andoeneath. a tendinous intersection near the clavicle. When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found to touch the sterno-thyroideus, and the superior thyroid vessels. The muscles of opposite sides are separated by an interval which is largest below. Use. Action. It draws the os hyoides downwards after swallowing; and in laborious respiration it will act as an elevator of the sternum. Sterno-thv- The sterno-thyroid muscle is wider and shorter than the sterno- roid muscle hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other hyoid muscle, it arises