DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 702 Anterior is oblique, its attach- ments. Posterior is vertical; its attach- ments. The use. Both unite the hones. Rotation checked by anterior. Use of anterior, and poste- rior crucial. Fig. 217. between the ends of the tibia and femur, which maintain in contact the bones. They cross one another somewhat like the legs of the letter X, and have received their name from that circumstance. One is much anterior to the other at the attachment to the tibia. The anterior ligament (/) is most oblique in its direction, and is smaller than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface, reaching back to the inner point of the spine ; superiorly it is inserted by its posterior shorter fibres into the back of the outer condyle of the femur, and by the anterior or longer into the hinder part of the intercondyloid fossa. The posterior ligament (e) is almost vertical between the bones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the hinder- most impression of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, near the margin of the bone; and above, its posterior shorter fibres are inserted into the inner con- dyle along the side of the oblique curve, whilst the anterior and longer reach the fore part of the intercondyloid fossa. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint, after the external ligaments have been cut through, may now be studied. As long as both ligaments are whole the bones cannot be separated from each other. Kotation in of the tibia is stopped by the anterior crucial. Eota- tion out is not checked by either ligament ; for the bands uncross in the execution of the movement, and will permit the tibia to be put hind foremost. Supposing the tibia to move, as in straightening of the limb, the anterior prevents that bone being carried too far forwards by the extensor tendon, or by force ; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put in front of the femur. Its use is shown by cutting it across, and leav- ing the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half bent state of the joint. The posterior crucial arrests the too great movement backwards * Interarticular ligaments of the knee-joint, a. Internal, and b, external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; the latter rather displaced by the bending of the joint, e. Posterior crucial ligament, with d, the ascending ligamentous band of the external fibro-cartilage. /. Anterior crucial ligament, g. Patellar surface of the femur.