DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 92 then in the jaw, and supplies "branch to mylo- hyoideus. Dental branches to grinding and cutting teeth. Branch to lower lip. Dental artery has an incisor and labial branch. Gustatory nerve courses to the tongue; no branch here. Chorda tympani joins gustatory, ends in tongue. ternal pterygoid, and on the internal lateral ligament near the dental foramen. After the nerve enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a labial branch. Only one muscular offset (mylo-hyoid) leaves the dental nerve before it enters the bone. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hyoid brunch arises near the dental foramen, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoideus, and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. b. The dental branches arise in the bone, and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nerve may be laid open so as to expose these branches. c. The incisor branch continues the trunk of the nerve onwards to the middle line, and furnishes offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, beneath which it lies. d. The labial branch (mental) (fig. 19, 13) issues on the face be- neath the depressor of the angle of the mouth. It gives offsets to the muscles below the aperture of the mouth, and communicates with the facial nerve; but the greater part of the branch is directed upwards beneath the depressor labii inf erioris, and is distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. The inferior dental artery, after entering the lower jaw, has a similar course and distribution to the nerve. Thus it supplies off- sets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teethy and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a labial branch. The incisor branch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, where it ends in the bone ; it lies beneath the canine and incisor teeth, to which it furnishes twigs. The labial branch, issuing by the labial foramen, ramifies in the structures covering the lower jaw, and communicates with the branches of the facial artery. The gustatory or lingual nerve (8) is concealed at first, like the others, by the external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined inwards with a small artery over the internal pterygoid muscle, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the* submaxillary region (p. 97). In its course under the jaw the nerve does not distribute any branch to the muscles around, but the following communicating nerve is received by it. The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve, and is dis- tributed to the tongue. Escaping from the tympanum by the Glaserian fissure, this small branch (6) is applied to the gustatory nerve at an acute angle. At the point of junction some fibrils communicate with the gustatory, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is conducted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and its course across the tympanum to its position beneath the external pterygoid, are described in Section 14.