DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 102 join facial nerve, and supply the and upper lip. Infraorbital artery- ends In face ; branches to orbit and one to anterior teeth. Infraorbital vein. the other offsets of the nerve, and form its terminal ramifica- tions. Some incline inwards to the side of the nose, and the rest descend to the upper lip. Near the orbit they are crossed by branches of the facial nerve (fig. 9, n), with which they communi- cate, the whole forming the infraorbital plexus (p. 38). g. The branches for the side of the nose supply the muscular and tegumentary structures. h. The branches for the upper lip are three or four in number, which divide as they descend, and are distributed chiefly to the surfaces of the lip, though they supply as well the muscles and the labial glands. The infraorbital artery is a branch of the internal maxillary (p. 89). Taking the course of the nerve through the infraorbital canal, the vessel appears in the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and it ends in branches which are distributed, like those of the nerve, between the eye and mouth. In the face its branches anastomose with offsets of the facial and buccal arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery furnishes small branches to the orbit. Another branch, anterior dental, runs with the nerve of the same name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth : this gives offsets to the antrum of the maxilla, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery (p. 89). The vein, accompanying the artery, communicates in front with the facial vein ; and terminates behind in a plexus of veins (alveolar, p. 144) corresponding with the branches of the internal maxillary artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. Parts in this In this Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the section. internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and some cranial and sympathetic nerves. Position of Position. The position of the part is to remain as before, viz., the head. neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissection^ Dissection. To see the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the posterior pharyngeus, belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle, should be de- tached from their origin and thrown down. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hypoglossal nerve crosses it, and by dividing those branches of it that have been already examined ; any veins accom- and giosso- panying the arteries are to be taken away. In cleaning the surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glossopharyngeal nerve and its branches, and the stylo-hyoid ligament may be prepared. The side of the jaw is to be drawn forwards on the face, stylo- The stylo-pharyngeus muscle (levator pharyngis externus) pharyngeus. regemkies £he other styloid muscles in its elongated form. The pharynj nerve.