735 VITREOUS BODY AND MEMBRANE. The pigmentary layer (fig. 225) covers the outer surface of the pigmentary retina, and is connected thereto by fine processes.* It consists of a layer; single stratum of six-sided nucleated cells, with granular contents (fig. 228, B) which are applied to each other by the edges. Each how.'formed ; possesses a nucleus towards the outer surface, and much pigment towards the inner. From the inner surface of the cells project characters very fine threads, which penetrate between the rods and cones of Jacob's layer. The pigmentary layer is constituted thus as far as the ora serrata of the retina ; but in front of that line, viz., on the ciliary portion of the retina, the cells are rounded and full of pig- ment, and are continuous Avdth the pigment of the ciliary processes extent, and back of the iris. Vessels of the retina. The central artery of the retina, accom- ^et^ls of panied by its vein, enters the eyeball through the optic nerve (p. 46). Inside the retina the vessel divides into four or five branches ; these pierce the stratum of fibres (fig. 232, li), and end in a network of capillaries amongst the ganglion cells (</), and in the molecular material (/) outside them. In the yellow spot only ^Jtellow capillaries exist. In the fetus a branch of the artery passes through the centre of in the vitreous mass to supply the lens capsule. Vitreous Body. A transparent mass fills the greater part of the ^reous space within the coats of the eyeball (fig. 225, K)) which has been named vitreous body from its resemblance to glass ; it consists of a clear aqueous fluid, contained in a translucent membrane, and has the consistence of soft jelly. Dissection. The vitreous body may be seen on the eye on which T.° obtain a . ... view of it, the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, the iris, and the ciliary muscle and processes. To obtain a view of its anterior part, with the lens in situation, jjjj^its an eyeball should be fixed upright; the sclerotic and choroid coats are to be cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea ; and on removing carefully the cornea, ciliary muscle and processes with the iris, the vitreous body will be apparent. The vitreous body (fig. 225, h) is globular in form, and fills four- g^g0^1^ fifths of the ball, supporting the retina. In front it is slightly by it. hollowed, and receives the lens with its capsule (#), to which it is closely united. The fluid of the vitreous body has nearly the same Composi- composition as the aqueous humour with some salts and albumen. Enveloping the whole is a thin membrane named hyaloid. The hyaloid membrane (ii) is the fine transparent covering of the ^J^j^ne vitreous body. It passes continuously over the surface ; and in the fetus it is connected with fibres which penetrate the mass. On the Connec- inner aspect are a few delicate nuclei. At the fore part it is joined by the membrane (t) supporting the in front> lens ; and it ends by uniting with the back of the lens capsule. an^ behind. * In the dissection of the retina this pigmentary layer is removed with the choroid through the rupture of the uniting processes ; and it has therefore been commonly described as a part of the choroid coat.