481 VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. between the mesenteric vessels. From the upper part of the aortic plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery ; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By detaching the peritoneum from the front of the sacrum, and hypogastric following downwards, over the iliac arteries, the nerves from the Plexus- aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric plexus, opposite the top of the sacrum. The superior mesenteric plexus is a large bundle of nerves, and is Superior distributed to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric plexus^10 artery. The nerves surround closely the artery with a sheath, but is on artery near the intestine some of them leave the vessels, and divide and of saine communicate before entering the gut. Branches. The offsets form secondary plexuses around the arterial branches, viz., intestinal nerves to the plexuses, small intestine ; and an ileo-colic, a right colic, and a middle colic plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is the network of nerves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery ; it is stronger on the sides derfvedS than the front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving acces- from solar: sory branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. Above, the plexus derives an offset, on each side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends inf eriorly, on each side, in branches offsets, which cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. From it offsets are furnished to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The spermatic plexus, formed by roots from both the aortic and Spermatic the renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle ; in the Plexus: cord it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the ovarian (spermatic) artery are in female, furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plexus supplies the part of the intestinal Inefggj10tgrie tube to which its artery is distributed. This plexus is furnished plexus; from the left side of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) the branching nerves join of the nerves and the union of contiguous twigs are well marked, y^^g6. Branches. Its offsets (plexuses) are named from the arteries they secondary accompany, viz., left colic, sigmoid, and superior hsemorrhoidal : plexuses- they ramify on those vessels, and have a like distribution. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre for the Hypogastric supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate plexus* in front of the upper part of the sacrum. It is developed more on situation, the sides than in the centre ; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any intermixed ganglionic masses. By its upper part it receives the nerves on the aorta, and is ioined receives i ii-i n c i t aortic plexus by some nlaments from one or two of the upper sacral ganglia. Inf eriorly the plexus ends in two portions, right and left, the last and ends in being the largest: each is continued forwards by the side of the ^feSra, internal iliac artery to the pelvic plexus of the same side, and to the viscera.