493 STRUCTURE OF STOMACH. The circular fibres (fig. 145, b) form the middle stratum, and will circular, be best seen by removing the longitudinal fibres near the pylorus. They reach from the left to the right end of the stomach ; but at the pylorus they are most numerous and strongest, and form a ring or sphincter (c) around the opening. The oblique fibres (fig. 145, e) are continuous with the circular or and oblique deep layer of the oesophagus. On the left and right of the cardiac fll3res" orifice they are so arranged as to form a kind of sphincter (d and e\ Fig. 145.* (Henle) ; but those on the left (e), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gradually disappearing on them. Fibrous coat By removing the muscular layer over a small space, The fibrous the fibrous coat will appear as a white shining stratum of areolar Kutfa^™ tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their dis- tribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, supposing the stomach to be distended with air. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open the stomach, Mucous but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a coat' recent stomach. This coat is a softish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death feel, in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the colour, membrane is less vascular than during digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is greater than in childhood or old age. When folds, the stomach is contracted the membrane is thrown into numerous wavy ridges or rugce, which become longitudinal along the great curve, towards the pylorus. * Diagram representing the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the stomach. Part of each of the two external coats is removed, a. External or longitudinal fibres, b. Middle or circular, c. Sphincter of the pylorus, d. Oblique fibres on the left of the cardiac opening, e. Oblique fibres, more numerous, on the right of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great'end of the stomach.