DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 200 Its super- ficial fibres f orm crust; deep fibres form teg- mentum. Gray matter of crus. Locus per- forates. 'Corpora albicantia. Tuber cinereum and infundi- bulum. Pituitary body. Situation. appear ; and beneath it will be seen a second or deeper set of longitudinal fibres (^). The superficial fibres, which form the under or free surface of the crus, are continued from the anterior pyramidal body (fig. 56, c). They are longitudinal in direction, and coarse in texture, and are directed upwards radiating to the cerebrum. The surface of the peduncle, which is composed of these fibres, is called the fasciculated portion, or the crust. The deeper fibres are also prolonged to the cerebrum. They are derived chiefly from the lateral tract and posterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, with a slip from the olivary fasciculus (fig. 57, d). Others come from the cerebellum, and mix with the former : some of these decussate across the middle line ° (p. 226). The fibres obtained from these four sources are situate beneath (as now seen) the locus niger : besides being deeper they are finer than the superficial set, and enclose much gray substance : the part of the crus formed by them is named tegmentum. The gray matter (locus niger) of the crus (fig. 57, g) forms a thin layer which reaches nearer the inner than the outer margin of the peduncle ; it is convex towards the free surface, but concave in the opposite direction. The posterior perforated spot (pons Tarini, g) is situate between the peduncles of the cerebrum ; in the area of the space is a layer of grayish matter, and numerous vessels penetrate it. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The corpora albicantia (corp. mamillaria, e) are two small, white bodies, about the size of peas, which are constructed in greater part by the crura of the fornix. If one, say the right, is cut across, it will be seen to contain gray matter. In front of them is the gray mass of the tuber cinereum. The median eminence of the tuber cinereum (Ji) forms part of the third ventricle, and is continuous with the gray substance in that cavity. In front of it are the optic tracts and commissure, and from its centre projects the following. The infundibulum (funnel) is a conically-shaped tube which reaches from the tuber cinereum to the upper part of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. It consists of a layer of gray matter, surrounded by the pia mater ; and it is lined by the ependyma of the third ventricle, as far as it is pervious. In the fetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed inferiorly. The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it has been dislodged from its resting place : therefore it should be some- times examined in the base of the skull by removing the surround- ing bone. Its use is unknown. It is situate in the hollow (sella Turcica) on the sphenoid bone, * M. Foville describes a median commissure for the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebral peduncles, which is composed of the interweaving of fibres of opposite sides. See the work of M. Foville entitled : Traits comjplet dc VAnatomie, &c, du Systeme Nerveux cerebrospinal, p. 323, 1844.