PERINEAL ARTERY AND NERVES. 425 Air blown beneath the fascia passes forwards to the scrotum ; course of and this direction is given to it by the deep connections of that ^gjd membrane with parts around. Should urine be effused beneath the urine, superficial fascia, the fluid will necessarily be directed forwards, like the air, through the scrotum to the penis and the front of the abdomen. Dissection. The superficial vessels and nerves are to be dissected Dissection on the right side of the perinseum, by cutting through the super- and^ssels ficial fascia in the same manner as on the left side. The long °i1Jl£igllt slender artery then visible is the superficial perinseal, which gives a transverse branch near its commencement. Two superficial perinseal nerves accompany the artery ; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perinseal and the inferior hemorrhoidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backwards. Arteries (fig. 130). The superficial and transverse perinseal Superficial arteries beneath the fascia are branches of the pudic, and are two pTdief ° or three in number. The superficial perinatal branch (fig. 130, arising at the fore Superficial part of the ischio-rectal fossa, runs over or under the transverse Penn8eal muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia to the back of the scrotum, where it ends in flexuous branches. As the vessel lies J^j^ internal to the pubic arch, it supplies offsets to the muscles beneath ; and in front it anastomoses with the external or superficial pudic branches of the femoral artery. Sometimes there is a second and supplies 1 -i -i muscles, perinseal branch. The transverse artery of the perinseum (fig. 130, a) arises from Transverse the preceding, and is directed transversely to the middle of the arteiy* perinseal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and the muscles between the urethra and the rectum. It anastomoses with the one of the opposite side. Branches of veins accompany the arteries, and open into the J^^slt^gS trunk of the pudic vein : those with the superficial perinseal artery are plexiform at the scrotum. Nerves (fig. 130). There are three cutaneous nerves of the scrotum Cutaneous . . nerves of on each side, viz. inferior pudendal of the small sciatic, and two scrotum, superficial perinseal branches of the pudic nerve. The superficial perinatal nerves, two in number, are named anterior Two super- and posterior from their relative position : both arise in the ischio- n^a.peil~ rectal fossa from the perinseal branch of the pudic nerve (p. 422). The posterior branch (2) is continued forwards, beneath the super- Posterior ficial fascia, with the artery of the same name to the back of the to the scrotum. Whilst in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an offset to scrotum, the integuments in front of the anus ; and this communicates with the inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve. The anterior branch (3) passes under the transverse muscle, and and anterior accompanies the other to the scrotum. Muscular offsets are fur- coursers nished by it to the levator ani and the other superficial muscles. posterior; The superficial perinseal branches communicate with one another,