138 DISSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. in the cavity, and it is columnar on the surface, but not ciliated. Beneath the surface layer are strata of granules and ovalish cells (2), amongst which sink the pointed or attached ends of the pieces of epithelium. Olfactorial Around the pieces of the columnar epithelium stand numerous eeUs" bodies named olfactorial cells by Schultze (fig. 32 B. h). They con- sist of small spindle-shaped nucleated cells, with a rounded filament prolonged from each end towards the attached and free surfaces of the mucous membrane : that to the free surface, the larger, ends on a level with the pieces of the columnar epithelium. But the con- nections of the deeper threads or processes are unknown ; they have been supposed to unite with the olfactory nerve. Glands. The glands in the olfactory region are simple lengthened tubes (fig. 32 A.4) like those in the stomach, but are slightly wavy, and end in the submucous tissue by closed extremities. A flattened epithelium, with coloured granular contents, lines the tubes.— (Henle.) Dissection Dissection. At this stage of the dissection, little will be seen of and vessels, the distribution of the olfactory nerve. If the septum nasi be removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the opposite side (the left), the filaments of the nerve will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. In the membrane too, near the front of the septum, is an offset of the nasal nerve. The naso-palatine nerve and artery (fig. 33, 3) are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine fossa : the artery is readily seen, especially if it is injected, but the fine nerve, which is about as large as a coarse hair, is embedded in the membrane and will be found by scraping with the point of the scalpel. By cutting through the fore and upper part of the membrane detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. Olfactory The OLFACTORY nerve (fig. 33 *) forms a bulb on the cribriform nerve plate of the ethmoid bone, and sends branches to the olfactory region of the nose through the apertures in the roof. These branches are about twenty in number, and are divisible into three is distri- sets. An inner set, the largest, descend in the grooves on the olfactory septum nasi, and branching, extend over the upper third. A middle region. set is confined to the roof of the nose. And an external set (fig. 34), is distributed on the upper spongy bone, on the anterior square surface of the os ethinoides, and on the anterior end of the middle spongy bone. Ending. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tubes from the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nerves ramify in the pituitary membrane in tufts of filaments which communicate freely with the contiguous twigs, forming a network, but their mode of termination in the tissue is unknown. It has been suggested by Schulze that they join the deep processes or ends of the so-called olfactorial cells.