397 POSTERIOR CERVICAL VESSELS. 9 The external pieces enter the erector spinse, and supply it and External the small intertransverse muscles. The first three pierce the erector Jye cute,- spinas, and become cutaneous after perforating the aponeurosis of neous from the latissimus. The branch of the last nerve is connected with the first three* corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset near the bones. * The internal pieces are furnished to the multifidus spinas muscle, internal Near their origin they are difficult to find, in consequence of being branches- contained in grooves on the articular processes. * Vessels in the back. The vessels now dissected are the occipital The vessels and the deep cervical; part of the vertebral ; and the posterior are branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries as a rule. In the neck. The vessels in the neck are the occipital, the verte- in the neck, bral, and the deep cervical. The occipital artery (fig. 119, d) courses along the occipital bone, part of the Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is directed £rterytal backwards beneath the sterno-mastoideus, the splenius, and some- times the trachelo-mastoideus, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Near the middle line it perforates the trapezius, and ascends to the occiput, on which it is distributed (p. 6). It sup- which plies the surrounding muscles, and furnishes the following branch sires a to the neck :— The cervical branch (b ram. princeps cervicalis) distributes twigs cervical to the under part of the trapezius, and passing beneath the com- branch, plexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery (fig. 119, c) lies on the neural arch of the Part of the first vertebra, behind the articulating process, and appears in the artery.13"1 interval between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the suboccipital nerve. Small branches are given to the surrounding muscles, and to anastomose with the contiguous arteries. The deep cervical ' artery (fig. 119, e) is a branch of the superior Deep cervi- intercostal (p. 71), and resembles the posterior branches of the other calarteiT- intercostal arteries. Passing back between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it ascends between the complexus and semispinalis muscles, as high as the upper border of the latter, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. * In the dorsal region. The posterior branches of the intercostal Dorsal vessels (p. 362) pass back between the vertebras and the anterior g^™nto^ costotransverse ligament and are divided like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. * The inner branches end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus inner am\ spinas and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets with the nerves. * The external branches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and outer supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branches branches> of this set are the largest and extend to the surface.