587 STEUCTUEE OF VAGINA. the opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-bulbs by Taylor (bulbi vestibuli, Kobelt, fig. 184, a). These are elongated bundles of plexiform veins, enclosed in fibrous membrane ; they conneo- are about an inch in length from above down, and are situate one tlons' on each side of the vestibule, where they are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vaginas (a). At the upper end each is pointed, and communicates with the vessels of the clitoris : and at the lower rounded extremity it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These bodies would answer to the divided bulb of the corpus they corre- spongiosum urethras in the male, each lateral half being thrust aside tne^un> of the male. Fig. 184.* n the female towards the crus clitoridis by the large aperture of the vagina. The muscular layer is outside the erectile structure and consists Muscular of longitudinal fibres. Some reach all along the vagina ; others, and stratum- these are the strongest, only as far upwards as the recto-vesical fascia, to which they are attached on each side. Above they end in the superficial layer of the uterus, and in the subperitoneal fibrous tissue ; and below in the subdermic tissue. The mucous membrane is continued through the lower aperture to Mucous join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, ™ttierane at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many muciparous vagina, glands and follices open on the surface, but these are in greatest abundance at the upper part. Conical and filiform papillas exist on the membrane ; and a laminar epithelium gives a covering to it. Bloodvessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from the vaginal, Arteries, uterine, and vesical branches of the internal iliac (p. 563). The veins are veins form a plexus around the vagina, as well as in the genital plexiform. organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of Nerves, the nerves, see page 568. * Venous plexuses of the genital organs, and opening of the vagina (Kobelt). A. Sphincter vaginas muscle, b. Clitoris, c. Nymph as. a. Semi-bulbs or bulbi vestibuli. b. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris (pars intermedia, Kobelt). c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris.