203 LOBES OF CEREBRUM. Fissure of Rolando (R. fig. 60). Beginning above, about half Fissure of way along the hemisphere, in or near the longitudinal fissure of the Rolando* cerebrum, it is prolonged outwards between the frontal and parietal lobes nearly to the posterior part of the Sylvian fissure,—about the middle of that limb. The external parieto-occipital fissure (opposite P 0, fig. GO,) begins Outerj in the median longitudinal fissure half way between the preceding occipital and the hinder end of the hemisphere. It is very variable in extent, fissure, being sometimes an inch long, and at others only a slight indentation ; but it may be always recognised by its continuity with the per- pendicular fissure on the inner face of the hemisphere (fig. 62). Lobes of the Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is divided into five Number of lobes, which have the following names and limits :— The frontal lobe (Fr, fig. 60) forms the anterior half of the Frontal lobe hemisphere. It is limited below by the fissure of Sylvius S, and behind by the fissure of Kolando,* R. Its under part, which rests and lobule, on the orbital plate, has been called the orbital lobule. The parietal lobe (Par, fig. 60) is placed behind the preceding, Parietal lobe and reaches down to the Sylvian fissure. It is about half as long- as the frontal. In front it is bounded by the fissure of Eolando, P, and behind by the parieto-occipital (P O). The upper and hinder and lobule, part, close to the median fissure, is named the parietal lobule (5'). The occipital lobe (Oc, fig. 60) constitutes the pointed end of the °^ceipital hemisphere and measures about a fifth of the whole. In front it is separated from the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital fissure (P 0), but below it blends with the following lobe. It rests on the tentorium. On the inner surface is a triangular piece, the occipital and lobule, lobule (25, fig. 62). The temporo-sphenoidal lobe (T £,fig. 60) projects into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. It is situate behind the fissure of lobe. Sylvius, and below the parietal and occipital lobes. The outer surface is in contact with the cranium, and the opposite is supported mainly on the tentorium. The central lobe, or the island of Eeil (0, fig. 61), lies in the Central lobe Sylvian fissure, and is concealed by the overlapping of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. On separating those lobes it will be seen to be bounded in front and behind by the limbs of the Sylvian fissure, and externally by a deep groove separating it from the frontal and parietal lobes. It is of a triangular form with the apex down. Convolutions of the Cerebrum. In different brains the con- Convoiu- volutions vary slightly in form, and even in the two hemispheres of hemisphere, the same cerebrum they are not exactly alike ; but there is always similarity enough for the recognition of the chief eminences. Each lobe possesses convolutions, but these run into each other by means of smaller gyri, either on the surface of the brain or at the bottom of the sulci ; and the student may experience some difficulty at first in defining the limits of each. It is in the smaller gyri that the greatest variation will be found. * By some the anterior limb of the fissure 'S is made the hinder bound of the lobe ; but this is not so good an arrangement as the one in the text.