DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 486 in which it pyloric and gastro-epiploic). It ascends then between the layers of ends, ^he little omentum, on the left side of the bile duct and vena portse, and divides near the transverse fissure of the liver into two—the and supplies right and left hepatic. Branches are distributed not only to the liver, but freely to the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas, as below :— offsets to The superior pyloric branch (o) descends to the upper border of the stomach, the stomach) and mnning from right to left anastomoses with the Fig. 143.* coronary artery ; it distributes small arterial twigs on both surfaces of the stomach. to the The right gastro-epiplo'ic branch "f(h) (art. gast. epiploica dextra) duodenum101 descends beneath the duodenum near the pylorus, and turning to viz.:- ' the left along the great curvature of the stomach, inosculates with the left gastro-epiploi'c of the splenic artery. To the surfaces of the stomach some offsets are given ; and others descend between the layers of the omentum. It furnishes the following named branches to the stomach, and the pancreas and duodenum :— Small inferior pyloric branches end in the small extremity of the stomach. The pancreatico-duodenal branch (i, superior) arises opposite the duodenum, and runs between the intestine and the pancreas ; it anastomoses below with the pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) of the superior mesenteric (fig. 141, b): both the duodenum and the pancreas receive offsets from this vessel. On the posterior aspect inferior pyloric, and pan- creatico- duodenal. * View of the cceliac axis, and of the viscera to which its branches are supplied (Tiedemann). a. Liver, b. Gall-bladder, c. Stomach, d. Duo- denum, e. Pancreas, f. Spleen. Vessels: a. Aorta, b. Upper mesenteric. c. Cceliac axis. d. Coronary. e. Splenic. /. Left gastro-epiplo'ic. g. Hepatic, h. Right gastro-epiplo'ic. i. Superior, and h, inferior pancreatico- duodenal. I. Diaphragmatic arteries, n. Cystic, o. Superior pyloric. f This artery is named commonly gastro-duodenal as far as to the spot where it gives off the branch to the duodenum and pancreas.