UPPER MAXILLARY NERVE. 101 rotundum. The course of the nerve is almost straight to the face, passes to across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and through the infraorbital canal, face> along the orbital plate of the upper maxilla. Issuing from the through canal by the infraorbital foramen, it is concealed by the elevator canaL^1**1 of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip:— a. The orbital branch (4) arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, its branches and entering the orbit, divides into malar and temporal branches as orbit? before said (p. 50). b. The sphenopalatine branches (3) descend from the nerve in to the nose the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate ; they are connected and Palate • with Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it (Section 14). c. A posterior dental branch (5) leaves the nerve near the upper to the teeth jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and supplies branches to clnitort Fig. 24.* X the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; it joins the anterior dental branch near the teeth. Before entering the canal it furnishes one or more offsets to the gums and the buc- cinator muscle. . d. The anterior dental branch (6) quits the nerve trunk in the to anterior floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special ee ' canal in front of the antrum : it is distributed by two branches. One (inner) gives nerves to the incisor and canine teeth, and furnishes one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose ; the other (outer) ends by supplying the bicuspid teeth. e. Before the trunk ends in the facial branches, it supplies a Branch of smsllpalpebral offset to the lower eyelid ; this is directed upwards eyelid. to the lid in a groove in the margin of the orbit. /. Infraorbital or facial branches (7). These are larger than Infraorbital branches, * Diagram of the tipper maxillary nerve and its branches. 2. Trunk of the nerve leaving the Grasserian ganglion. 3. Spheno-palatine branches. 4. Temporo-malar branch. 5. Posterior dental nerves. 6. Anterior dental. 7. Facial branches.