163 CARTILAGES OF LARYNX. In the arytamo-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may be recognised ; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. The liyoid bone (os hyoides) (fig. 43) is situate between the larynx Hyoid bone, and the root of the tongue. Eesembling the letter U, placed hori- Form, zontally and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examina- tion a- central part or body, and two lateral pieces or cornua on each side. The body, c, is thin and flattened and measures most in the Body of the transverse direction. Convex in front, where it is marked by a bone' tubercle, it presents an uneven surface for the attachment of muscles ; whilst on the opposite aspect it is concave. To the upper border the fibrous membrane (hyo-glossal) fixing the tongue is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side (large and small). Side pieces, The large cornu, H, continues the bone backwards, and is joined to arfee the body by an intervening piece of cartilage. The surfaces of this cornu look somewhat upwards and downwards ; and the size de- creases from before backwards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cornu, or appendix, J, is directed upwards from the point and small, of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament ; it is seldom wholly ossified. Cartilages of the Larynx (fig. 43). There are four large carti- in larynx lages in the larynx, on which the vocal cords are fixed and sup- four large ported, viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two arytenoid. In addition there are some yellow fibro-cartilaginous structures, viz., and some the epiglottis, a capitulum to each arytenoid cartilage, and a small J™**1 cartl" ovalish piece (cuneiform) in each arytasno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The thyroid cartilage, B, is the largest of all : it forms the front Thyroid of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield. cartllage The upper part of the cartilage is considerably wider than the is convex in lower, and in consequence of this form the larynx is somewhat fl0nt' funnel-shaped. The anterior surface is prominent in the middle line, forming the subcutaneous swelling named pomum Adami ; but the cartilage is concave behind at the same spot, and gives attach- concave ment to the epiglottis and the thyro-arytenoid muscles and liga- belund- ments. The upper border is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two square halves, which are united in Formed of the middle line. Posteriorly each half of the cartilage has a thick two lialves> border, which terminates upwards and downwards in a rounded borders^nd process or cornu (e and f). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards : cornua. of the two, the upper, E, is the longest ; but the lower one, f, is thicker than the other, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of each half is smooth ; but the outer is marked by an oblique line for the attachment of muscles, which extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, almost to the middle of the lower border. The cricoid cartilage, D, is stronger though smaller than the Cricoid thyroid, and encircles the cavity of the larynx ; it is partly con- cai 1 dge' m 2