429 DEEP MUSCLES OF URETHRA. border is a thin fascia which covers the surface of the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. Superficial to it are the muscles parts over in the anterior half of the perinseal space ; and the superficial fascia is united to it near the lower border. The ligament is composed of two layers of membrane (anterior Consists of and posterior) which are_united below. The posterior layer is strata- derived from the recto-vesical fascia. The anterior is a separate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres, but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the fore part of the ligament, about one inch below Apertures the symphysis pubis, is the canal of the urethra, f ; but the margin J^j^ of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethras. About midway between for dorsal the preceding opening and the symphysis pubis is the aperture for vein, and the dorsal vein of the penis ; and external to this, near the bone On nerves, each side, the terminal parts of the pudic artery and nerve to the penis (b and 3) perforate the ligament by separate apertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained the membran- Between J ous part of the urethra, with its muscles, vessels, and glands; and layers- the bloodvessels and nerves of the penis. Dissection. The muscles between the layers of the ligament will Dissection, be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the superficial stratum near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dis- section, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will come into view with the undermentioned position :— Parts between the layers of the ligament. Near the base is a narrow Things in transverse muscle, h, which is directed to the bulb of the urethra, lariigamiat. Higher up, and crossing inwards from behind the pubic arch, is the fasciculus of fibres of the constrictor urethrse muscle, I, which sur- rounds the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone are the pudic vessels (a) and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb, and the latter being deeper in position ; and below the pubes is the sub- pubic ligament. Deeper than all, the student may see the posterior layer of the ligament, continuous with the recto-vesical fascia which separates the perineum from the pelvic cavity. Muscles. The two muscles connected with the membranous part Muscles of of the urethra, are, deep transverse, and constrictor of the urethral urethra- The DEEP TRANSVERSE MUSCLE (fig. 131, H, elevator urethras, Deeptrans- Santorini) is a thin flat band on a level with the base of the tri- verse- angular ligament. It arises externally from the pubic arch of the Origin, innominate bone, and is directed below the tip of the bulb and the Termina- membranous part of the urethra to the middle line, where it joins tlon* the muscle of the opposite side, and is inserted into the central point of the perinseum. The muscle conceals Cowper's gland, and is frequently placed Connec- over the artery of the bulb. The transverse muscle is not always tlous- separate from the following.