74 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Branches to recti. Branches to other nerves. Branches to muscles. Branches joining spinal ac- cessory. Common carotid arterv. Origin. Course. Situation. Parts cover ing it, "beneath it, and on its Position of veins ; Muscular brandies are furnished to the anterior recti muscles ; they arise from the loop between the first two nerves, and from the trunks of the other nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. Some connecting branches from the loop between the first two nerves unite with the sympathetic and some cranial nerves near the base of the skull: these will be afterwards described. External or Posterior Series. Muscular branches are supplied from the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus ; from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapulas ; and from the third and fourth nerves to the trapezius. Further, some small branches enter the substance of the middle scalenus. Connecting branches with the spinal accessory nerve exist in three places. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle ; next, in the posterior triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with the branches distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The common carotid artery is the leading vessel for the supply of blood to the neck and head (fig. 16, 6). The origin of the vessel differs on opposite sides of the body, beginning at the lower part of the neck on the right side, and in the thorax on the left side. The right vessel commences opposite the sterno-clavicular articu- lation in the bifurcation of the innominate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into external and internal carotids. The course of the artery is along the side of the trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the larynx ; and its position will be marked by a line from the sterno- clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the carotid artery has the following connections with the surrounding parts :—As high as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is con- cealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma, and fascia ; and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno- mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is less deep, being covered only by the sterno-mastoid with the common investments of the neck. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli muscle, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, the oesophagus and pharynx, and the thyroid body, the last overhanging the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Veins. The large internal jugular lies on the outer side and close to the carotid at the upper end, but separated from it below by an interval of about half an inch : on the left side the vein is over the artery below, as will be afterwards seen. One or two