DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. To see insertion of Poupart's ligament. Throw down piece of external oblique, and seek triangular ligament. Poupart's ligament: outer and inner attach- ments : forms Gimbernat's ligament. Its direc- tion, and parts in contact with it. Triangular ligament. Dissection to expose internal oblique. Clean the cremaster. Dissection. To see the attachments and connections of Poupart's ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both sides of the body, the -lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh, as in fig. 138. For this purpose an incision is to be carried through the aponeu- rosis from the front of the iliac crest to about three inches from the linea alba ; and the tendon is to be detached from the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel. When the aponeurosis cannot be separated farther from the tendons beneath, near the linea alba, it is to be cut in the direction of a vertical line to the symphysis pubis. After the triangular piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown towards the thigh, the spermatic cord is to be dislodged from the surface of Poupart's ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the pubes, and to lay bare the fibres (triangular ligament) which ascend therefrom to the linea alba. Poupart's ligament (fig. 134, D) is the lower border of the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique, which intervenes between the front of the crista ilii and the pubes. Externally it is round and cord- like, and is attached to the anterior superior iliac spine. Internally it widens as it approaches the pubes (fig. 133, D), and is inserted into the pubic spine and the pectineal line of the hip-bone for about three-quarters of an inch, forming a triangular-looking piece with its base directed outwards, which is named Gimbernat's ligament (fig. 136). Poupart's ligament is not straight between its outer and inner attachments, but is curved downwards to the thigh ; and it retains this position as long as the fascia lata remains uncut. Its outer half is oblique, and is firmly united with the subjacent iliac fascia: along the line of union of the two, the other lateral muscles of the abdominal wall are attached. Its inner half is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh. Triangular ligament. From the insertion of Gimbernat's ligament into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin band, to which the above name has been given. Dissection. The upper part of the external oblique is now to be taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the things underneath. The muscle may be detached by carrying the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the free border, and then through the insertion into the crista ilii. It may be thrown forwards' as far as practicable, after the nerves crossing the iliac crest are dissected out ; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs above, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique at the upper part. By the removal of the fatty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves below on its surface, will be prepared. At the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle on the cord is to be defined (fig. 135) : it is about as wide as the little finger, and consists of fleshy loops which issue through the