645 SCIATIC AND PUDIC VESSELS. rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip joint. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. Action. The use of this and the other external rotators is altered ^^^Jang by the position of the femur. If that bone hangs the pyriformis ing and rotates it out; but if the hip joint is bent the muscle abducts the raised- limb from its fellow. Both limbs being fixed the muscles balance the pelvis, and help Both liml?s i n • it _ m on ground, to make the trunk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyrif ormis only one- turns the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 199). The pyrif ormis maybe cut across and raised o^the towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the chief ves- sciatic and pudic vessels, and to trace the accompanying nerves to nerved their origin in the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small nerves to the obturator internus (5), the gemellus ^!jnus" superior (7), and the hip joint, are to be sought in the fat at the branches, lower border of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus (6) will be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but it will be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have been seen. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. The vessels on the back of the The vessels pelvis, below the pyrif ormis muscle, are branches of the internal the iliac, iliac (p. 563). The sciatic artery (fig. 198, b) supplies the buttock below the j^Jjp. gluteal. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends with the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus : here course the artery gives off many branches with the superficial offsets of its and ending, companion nerve ; and much reduced in size, it is continued with that nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes Branches, the following named branches :— a. The coccygeal branch, arising close to the pelvis, perforates ^1^eal the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum and coccyx. b. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) ^f^sciatic is very slender, and entering the nerve near the pelvis, ramifies in nerve. it along the thigh. c. Muscular branches enter the gluteus maximus, the upper MmctJmt gemellus, and obturator internus ; and by means of a branch to the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name Branch to beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the ratus. " hip joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (fig. 198, e). Varying in size this artery is Anastomotic directed outwards to the root of the great trochanter, where it biancl1- anastomoses with the gluteal and internal circumflex. The pudic artery (fig. 198, d) belongs to the peringeum and the genital organs ; it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to which it lies. Only the small part of the vessel, which winds over the ischial j5™^8tlie spine, is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the perineal spme.