161 NERVES OF LARYNX. ternally it is connected with the thyroarytenoid muscle. And in- feriorly it is continuous with the crico-thyroid ligament, K. The edge that bounds the ventricle is straight and well defined, and vibrates to produce sounds. The ligament is composed of fine Nature, elastic tissue. The mucous membrane of the larynx is continued from that invest- Mucous ing the pharynx, and is prolonged to the lungs through the oTlTrynxf trachea. When entering the larynx it is stretched between the epiglottis and the tip of the arytenoid cartilage, forming the aryteno-epiglottid fold on each side of the laryngeal orifice : at this spot it is very loose, and the submucous tissue abundant. In Arrange- the larynx the membrane lines closely the cavity, sinks into the mellt* ventricle, and is prolonged into the laryngeal pouch. On the thyro- arytenoid ligaments it is very thin and adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the vocal cords, the Epithelium epithelium is of the laminar kind, and free from cilia. But a columnar ciliated epithelium covers the surface below the level of differs in the superior cords, though it becomes flattened without cilia on the c * cords : on the epiglottis it is ciliated in the lower half. Numerous branched glands are connected with the mucous mem- Glands, brane of the larynx; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytenoid) ; and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the vocal cords, but close to those bands is the collection of the sacculus laryngis, which lubricates the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves and vessels. The termination of the laryngeal Dlssectlon J . J ° of nerves : nerves may be dissected on the untouched side of the larynx. For this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, care being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the joint between the two. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down with pins ; and after the thyroid has been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal inferior, nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal is to be found as it pierces the superior thyro-hyoid membrane, and branches of it are to be followed to the laiJrnseal • mucous membrane of the larynx and pharynx. Two communica- tions are to be looked for between the laryngeal nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accompanies each nerve, and its offsets are to be of vessels, dissected at the same time as the nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and inferior Nerves are laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric (p. Ill) ; the former is from vagus' distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter mostly to the muscles. The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the Recurrent