103 STYLO-PHARYNGEUS MUSCLE. fibres arise from the root of the styloid process on the inner surface, Origin, and descend between the superior and middle constrictors to be inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper border Insertion, (hinder border, Merkel*) of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies below the stylo-glossus, and between the carotid *®r^*Jeen arteries ; and the glossopharyngeal nerve turns over the lower end arteries, of its fleshy belly. Action. It elevates and draws outwards the part of the pharynx Use. above the hyoid bone, making the tube ready for the reception of the morsel to be swallowed. From its attachment to the thyroid cartilage it will assist in raising the larynx; and by its position it will control the movement forwards of the air tube. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, which extends from stylohyoid the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the os hyoides. ^ ^ Its position is between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus 0f preced- muscles, and over the internal carotid artery ; whilst the lower end ing'- is placed beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To the posterior border, the middle constrictor muscle is attached below. It is frequently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent. Occasionally a slip of fleshy fibres is continued along it. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY supplies parts within the head, Internal viz., the brain, the eye and orbit, and the nose ; and takes a aJteryd circuitous course through and along the base of the skull before it terminates in the brain. The arterial trunk in the cranium, and its offset to the orbit, have some parts been already learnt; but the portions in the neck and the temporal gg^dy bone remain to be dissected. The branches of the carotid to the brain are examined with the encephalon. Dissection. For the display of the cervical part of the artery Dissection (fig. 25) there is now but little dissection required. By detaching th^neck"- m the styloid process at the root, and throwing it with its muscles to the middle line, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals them, but this is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed inwards over the artery, seek the and cranial nerves * glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches near the skull, and the small pharyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal offset crossing beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, close to the skull, will be found the vagus, hypo-glossal, and sympathetic nerves ; and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the vessels a loop of the first and second cervical nerves over the transverse process of the atlas is to be defined ; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and to the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. Ascending to * Anatomie und Phisiologie des Mensclilichen Stimm unci Spracli Organs. Leipzig, 1857. Yon Dr. Merkel.