COSTO-COEACOID SHEATH. 245 Dissection. Supposing the clavicle raised by pressing backwards Dissection the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the vessels of eosto-co- •ii i n -i -i i • -i racoid will be demonstrated by making a transverse cut m the costo-cora- fascia, coid membrane near the clavicle, so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. By raising the lower border of the sub- clavius this muscle will be seen to be incased by fascia, which is attached to the bone both before and behind it. The costo-coracoid membrane, or ligament (fig. 70), is a firm Costo-cora- membranous band, which receives this name from its attachment on £°4ne16m" the one side to the rib, and on the other to the coracoid process of the scapula. Between those points it is inserted into the clavicle, en- conceals closing the subclavius muscle ; and is joined by the piece of fascia SUDclavms» that incases the small pectoral muscle. From its strength and position it gives protection to the vessels surrounded by their loose sheath. When traced downwards it is found to descend on the axillary and joins vessels and nerves, joining externally the fascia on the coraco- vessels^ brachialis muscle, and blending with the sheath of the axillary vessels beneath the small pectoral muscle. Its extent is not so great on the inner as on the outer side, for internally it reaches but a very short distance on the axillary vein. The sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves, E, is derived from ^^?f the deep fascia of the neck, being prolonged from that on the scaleni muscles ; and resembles, in( its form and office, the funnel- shaped tube of membrane surrounding the femoral vessels in the upper part of the thigh. It is strongest near the subclavius muscle, strongest in where the costo-coracoid band joins it. The anterior part of thefront- tube is perforated by the cephalic vein (e), the acromial thoracic! vessels (cs), and the anterior thoracic nerve (*). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, clean the the remains of it are to be taken away ; and the subclavius muscle, Yessels- and the axillary vessels and nerves with their branches, are to be carefully cleaned. The subclavius muscle (fig. 70, D) is roundish in form, and is Subclavius placed between the clavicle and the rib. It arises by a tendon from muscle the first rib, at the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous parts, and in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres ascend is attached obliquely, and are inserted into a groove on the under surface of and^rst rih the clavicle, which reaches between the two tubercles (internal and external) for the attachment of the costo and coraco-clavicular ligaments. The muscle overhangs the large vessels and nerves of the limb, Connec- and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula ; but Use. if the shoulder is fixed it elevates the first rib. The axillary artery (fig. 70) continues the subclavian trunk Axillary to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to which this name is artery' applied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the lower xtent; border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (h).