SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF URETHRA. 427 fibres are directed outwards, curving around the convexity of the Origin at urethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, which has the following middle lme- insertion:—The most posterior fibres are lost on the front of the triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, which are the longest and best marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect, insertion by before the erector ; and, according to Kobelt,* they send a ten- three parts* dinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or intervening fibres turn round the urethra, surrounding it for two inches, and join their fellows by a tendon. The ejaculator muscle covers the bulb and the urethra for three Surrounds inches in front of the triangular ligament.f If the muscle be cut the methra' through on the right side, and turned off the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the use, urethra, and eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into use at the end of the process, when the passage has to be cleared. The action voluntary . . , , 1 . . . n ,i andinvolun- is involuntary m the emission o± the semen. tary. The TRANSVEESALIS PERIN2EI (fig. 130, C) is a Small thin muscle, Transversa- which lies across the perinseum opposite the base of the triangular lls Perm9ei- ligament. Arising from the inner surface of the pubic arch near Origin, the ischial tuberosity, it is inserted into the central point of the centred1 perineum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the point, sphincter ani and the ejaculator urinas. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia bends down to join the triangular ligament. Sometimes there is a second small fleshy slip, anterior to the ^an^ver7 transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter • this throws saiis. itself into the ejaculator muscle. Action. From the direction of the fibres the muscle will draw Use. backwards the central point of the perineum, and help to fix it pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. The three muscles above described, when separated from each a triangular . . space be- Other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- tween the lator urinee forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer n^scies: side, and the transversalis peringei muscle the base. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the superficial perinatal vessels and nerves. Should the knife thekeni[er enter the posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions SiTtiio-61* in the lateral operation of lithotomy, it will divide the transverse tomy- muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. Dissection (fig. 131). For the display of the triangular ligament, ^^^01Jar the muscles and the crus penis, which are superficial to it, are to ligament. * Die Mannlichen unci Weiblichen Wollust-Organe, von Gr. L. Kobelt, 1844. + Some of the deeper fibres which immediately surround the bulb, have been described as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These are separated from the superficial layer by thin areolar tissue, and join the corresponding part of the other muscle by a small tendon above the urethra. The name com- pressor hemisphcerium bulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomist.