LIGAMENTS OF CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. 171 The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the neck (p. Vertebral 69) ; and its termination is described with the vessels of the brain. cSvica?1 Entering usually the foramen in the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebrae, artery ascends vertically through the corresponding foramina in the other vertebrae. Finally the vessel turns backwards on the neural arch of the atlas ; and passing beneath the ligament joining that vertebra with the os occipitis, enters the sknll through the foramen magnum. In its course through the foramina the artery lies in position to front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, except those of tlie nerves- the first and second,—the former of which crosses on the inner, and the latter on the outer side. The vessel is accompanied by a A vein, and -i -i , * n j_i nerves are vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name. with it. In the neck the artery furnishes small twigs to the surrounding Branches, muscles, the spinal canal, and the spinal cord. The vertebral vein begins by small radicles in the, occiput, and in Vertebral the muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the aperture of the vem atlas, where it receives sometimes a vein from the skull through the posterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying ends in the artery, the vein traverses the apertures between the transverse subclavian, processes, and ends in the subclavian vein (p. 71). In its course it is joined by branches from the internal and external Branches, spinal veins ; its other branches are described at p. 70. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cervical Vertebral ganglion of the sympathetic (p. 116). It surrounds the artery, and fles communicates with the spinal nerves as high as the third or fourth. • nerve Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRA AND CLAVICLE. Directions. On the remaining part of the spine, the ligaments Directions, connecting the cervical vertebras to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cervical from the first dorsal Dissection, vertebra. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat from the cervical vertebras. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The common ligaments attaching together the cervical vertebras common are similar to those uniting the vertebras in other parts of the spine, a^^ebraof viz., an anterior and a posterior common ligament; bands between the laminas and spines ; capsular ligaments and synovial membranes for the articulating processes ; and an intervertebral ligament be- tween the bodies of the bones. Directions. The common ligaments will be best seen on the dorsal these de- or lumbar portion of the spine where they are more fully developed ; eSwhere their preparation and description will be found at the end of the