DISSECTION OF THE THOKAX. 328 will be increased more than others. For instance, the central ten- dinous piece, which is joined to the heart-case, moves but slightly; but the lateral, bulging, fleshy halves descend freely, and add greatly to the size of the lateral part of the chest by their separa- tion from the thoracic parietes. Thorax les- The thoracic cavity may be diminished by the diaphragm being* sened, how? pUSnec[ upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen ; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. THE PLEUK2E. Sac of the pleura. Form. Outer sur- face. Inner sur- face. Disposition in thorax. Difference in sac of right and left side. The con- tinuity is here traced over the lung and above it. Along mid- dle the sacs form a par- tition. The pleurse are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, which are reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the thorax. One occu- pies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity ; they ap- proach each other along the middle line of the body, forming a thoracic partition or mediastinum. Each pleura is conical in shape ; its apex projects into the neck above the first rib (fig. 97), and its base is in contact with the dia- phragm. The outer surface is rough, and is connected to the lung and the wall of the thorax by areolar tissue, but the inner surface is smooth, and secerning. Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of the chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part—pleura costalis, and of a visceral part—pleura pul- monalis. There are some differences in the shape and extent of the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than on the left ; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to that side. The continuity of the bag of the pleura over the lung and the wall may be traced circularly from a given point to the same, in the following manner :—Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it may be traced on the wall of the chest as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is reflected over the viscus, covering its surface, and connecting together its different lobules. From the front of the root the pleura may be followed over the side of the pericardium to the sternum. Below the root the pleura gives rise to a thin fold, the ligamentum latum pulmonis, which intervenes between the inner surface of the lung and the side of the peri- cardium. If the serous sac be traced above the root of the lung, it describes a circle without deflection over a viscus. The mediastinum. The median thoracic partition, or the medi- astinum, is formed by the approximation of the pleural bags along the middle line, and is constructed of two layers,—one being derived from each sac. About midway between the sternum and the spine the contiguous strata of the mediastinum are widely separated by the heart ; but in front of, and behind the heart they