LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. 737 large intestine, by the inflation of the plaits of the anterior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens projects into the space. Lens and its capsule. The lens is situate behind the pupil of Lens of the the eye (fig. 225, and brings to a focus on the retina the rays of eyet>alL light entering through that aperture. The capsule is a firm and very elastic transparent case, which is {JaP^lle of permeable to fluid, and closely surrounds the lens : it is seated in a situation hollow on the front of the vitreous body. The anterior surface andconnec- projects towards the pupil ; whilst the posterior is received on the tlons* vitreous mass, to which it is inseparably united. The circumference of the case corresponds with the canal of Petit (o). Its anterior surface (fig. 225) is free, and touches the iris (/), p!fr^terior but is separated from it by a slight space at the outer edge (poste- rior chamber, i); it gives attachment towards the circumference to the suspensory ligament (t). The fore part of the capsule is four or five times thicker than the veiT thick; posterior, as far outwards as the attachment of the suspensory liga- ment, and supports itself after the removal of the lens ; it is firm and quite transparent, and remains clear for some time when im- is firm and mersed in spirit, acids, and boiling water, like the elastic layers of transParent- the cornea. The posterior part of the capsule is thin and mem- Posterior branous, and decreases in thickness towards the centre : it is joined fibrous, by the hyaloid membrane (n) of the vitreous body. In the adult human eye the capsule of the lens is not provided Vessels to it. with bloodvessels ; but in the fetus a branch of the central artery of the retina supplies it (p. 735). Dissection. The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin ®$mcap-^ membranous capsule in which it is inclosed. The lens is a solid and transparent doubly convex body : but the Surfaces are curved un- curves are unequal on the two surfaces (fig. 225, #), the posterior equally; being greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded ; dimensions; and the measurement from side to side is one third of an inch, but from before back about one fourth of an inch. The density density, increases from the circumference to the centre ; for whilst the superficial layers may be rubbed off with the finger, the deeper portion is firm, and is named the nucleus. On each surface are three lines or stellse diverging from the centre, Lines on the and reaching towards the margin ; they are the edges of planes or u septa, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, because they bifurcate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Covering the anterior surface of the lens, and connecting it with f layer of , . cells joins the capsule, is a layer of very transparent nucleated polygonal cells, it to the which can be recognised only in a fresh eye : these become elon- caPsule- gated towards the circumference of the lens, and seem to pass into the superficial lens-fibres. Structure. After the lens has been hardened by spirit or boiling, JjSSu« it may be demonstrated to consist of a series of layers (fig. 234) arranged one within another, like those in an onion. Under the 3 B