214 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. ends in in- ferior cornu. Optic thalamus after. Hippocam- pus in posterior cornu : Hippo- campus major in lower cornu lias a large end and band on its surface. Dissection. Structure of hippo- campus. Great trans verse hssur is beneath fornix, with the pointed end of the corpus striatum, into the white sub- stance of the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Superficial to the anterior part of the taenia is a yellowish semi- transparent layer (lamina cornea) ; and beneath this pass some small veins from the corpus striatum, in their course to the veins of Galen. The optic thalamus is only partly laid bare in this stage of the dissection, and its examination maybe omitted till the third ventricle has been learnt (p. 217). The hippocampus minor (calcar avis) resembles a cock's spur (fig. 63, z), as it lies in the posterior cornu of the ventricle. It is pointed at its hinder extremity, and is covered on the free surface by a medullary layer continuous with the corpus callosum. When it is cut across a gray stratum will be found beneath the white ; and the eminence itself will be seen to be produced by the ex- tension inwards of the calcarine sulcus at the inner surface of the hemisphere (p. 207). The hippocampus major (fig. 63,1) is the curved projection in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Convex on the surface that looks to the cavity, this body is curved in the same direction as the cornu, and has its concavity turned inwards. The anterior extremity is the largest, and presents two or three indenta- tions, which give it the appearance of the foot of a feline animal ; it is named pes hippocampi. Along the inner or concave margin is the small band or taenia (fig. 64, c), which is prolonged from the fornix ; it ends below by joining the small recurved part of the uncinate convolution (p. 207). Dissection. To examine more fully the hippocampus, the pieces of the corpus callosum and fornix, which remain in the middle line? should be divided longitudinally, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away from the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its structure will be manifest. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface by a medullary layer, with which the taenia or the band of the fornix blends. On its opposite surface is the hollow of the dentate sulcus on the exterior of the brain, which is filled with gray substance. Along the free margin of the hippocampus the gray matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the lamina clentata : this is external to the cavity of the ventricle, beneath the taenia, and has been named the dentate convolution (p. 208). Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. By drawing the separated ' right hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the optic thalamus,, and replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the position, and the boundaries, on one side, of the great cleft at the posterior part of the brain. This fissure lies beneath the fornix; and opens into the lateral ventricle along the edge of the fornix on each side, from the fora- men of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. The slit