143 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. At its exit from the canal, the nerve receives a soft reddish offset (carotid brancli) from the sympathetic on the outer side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium through the cartilaginous substance in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large superficial petrosal nerve (fig, 35, 2). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve (p. 145). Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig from the tympanic nerve. The vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and sympathetic vidian a fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between £ei-ve°mKl the sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The student may now give his attention to the re- maining nerves in the nasal cavity. Dissection. The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose behind Seek other the nasal bone (fig. 34), by gently detaching the lining membrane, nerves and after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum nasi, but probably this, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the nasal cavity. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery in the vessels of spheno-maxillary fossa have been laid bare in the dissection of nose* Meckel's ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The nasal nerve (of the ophthalmic) (fig. 34, 6) has been already Nasal nerve seen in the skull and orbit. Entering the nasal fossa by an aperture J^gJ,e^0eneh at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a branch to the gives membrane of the septum, and is continued in a groove behind the os nasi to the lower margin of this bone where it escapes to the surface of the nose in the face (fig. 9, 7, p. 45). Branches. The branch to the septum (fig. 33) divides into filaments branch to that ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly sePtimi to the lower border. One or two filaments are likewise furnished by the nerve to the and to mucous membrane on the outer wall of the nasal fossa ; these ex- outer wal1- tend as low as the inferior spongy bone. TERMINAL BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. The Branches of branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, which have not mternal been examined, are the superior palatine, naso-palatine, pterygo- are palatine, and vidian. The superior or descending palatine is the largest branch, and palatine accompanies the large palatine nerve through the canal, and along brancn '> the roof of the mouth ; it anastomoses behind the incisor teeth with its fellow, and with a branch through the incisor foramen. This artery supplies offsets to the soft palate and tonsil through the other palatine canals, and some twigs are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous mem- brane, glands, and gums, receive their vessels from it. The nasal or spheno-palatine artery enters the nose through the nasal spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches :—Some of these t>rancnes'