CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section I. PERINEUM OF THE MALE. Directions. The perineum may be allotted with greatest advan- Before the tage to the dissector of the abdomen : and its examination should dissecti°n i in it- r» pi -n Pass cathe- be made first, as the distinctness of many of the parts is destroyed ter. soon after death. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dissection, the student may practise passing the catheter along the urethra. Position of the body. Whilst the body lies on the Back it is to be Place the drawn to the end of the dissecting table, till the buttocks project potion, slightly over the edge ; and a moderately-sized block is to be placed beneath the pelvis, to raise the peringeum to a convenient height. The legs are to be raised and kept out of the way by the following and fasten means :—After the knees have been bent, and the thighs bent Sfe^eo-s! upon the trunk, the limbs are to be fastened with a cord in their raised position. For this purpose make one or two turns of cord round one bent knee (say the right) ; carry the cord beneath the table, and, encircling the opposite limb in the same manner, fasten it finally round the right knee. When the position has been arranged, let the student raise the scrotum, and place a small piece of cotton wool or tow within the anus, but let him avoid distending the rectum. Superficial limits and marking. The perinseal space in the male is The surface, limited, on the surface of the body, by the scrotum in front, and by limits, the thighs and buttocks on the sides and behind. This region is of a dark colour and is covered with hairs. In The anus> the middle line is the aperture of the anus, which is posterior to a line extended from the anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex over the urethra, and presents a longitudinal prominent line or raphe, the raphe, which divides the space into two halves. Between the anus and hollow on the tuberosity of the hip bone the surface is somewhat depressed S1 e 0 anus' over the hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially in emaciated bodies. The margin of the anal aperture possesses numerous converging E E