STRUCTURE OF PROSTATE. 569 uterus, and consist of long slender filaments without ganglia or communications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the 110 ganglia, uterine nerves. Some few nerves surrounding the arteries of the uterus are plexi- yg^'j*011 form and ganglionic. The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form one chain in front of cJiai\la^£el the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac artery : their efferent ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep lym- lymphatics phatics of the penis, those of the genital organs in the female, and them!*18 the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the pelvis are collected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE PELVIS. Directions. The bladder and the bodies at its base, viz., the vesiculate seminales, and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for exami- n ation. Dissection. To study the form and structure of the viscera, it Take out will be necessary to remove them from the pelvis. For this purpose 6 vlscer3 the student should carry the scalpel around the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundary, so as to detach the crus of the penis from Separate the bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When rectum> the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be separated from the other organs ; but the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue clean the is to be removed from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland bladdei» and the vesicular seminales are to be then cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis and the and penis, urethra it is to be taken away. THE mOSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate gland (fig. 176). This is a firm muscular body, with Prostate glands in it secreting a special fluid, which surrounds the neck of ^g^and the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its connections have situation, been enumerated (p. 553). The prostate is conical in form like a chestnut, with the base or Form, larger end directed backwards. Its dimensions in different direc- dimensions, tions are the following :—Transversely at the base it measures about an inch and a half ; from apex to base an inch and a quarter ; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and backwards laterally, from the apex to the base, will be the longest that can be practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this and weight, respect it varies greatly.