MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE. 93 Section VII. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The submaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone. In it are contained the muscles of the os hyoides Parts in it. and tongue, the vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. In this dissection the position of the neck is the same Position of as for the examination of the anterior triangle. the neck' Dissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary Dissection, gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it be taken away. The submaxillary gland (fig. 16, n) lies below the jaw in the Situation anterior part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Its shape is irregular, and the facial artery winds over the surface. It rests on the mylo-hyoideus, and sends a deep and connec- process round the posterior or free border of that muscle. In tlons front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric ; and behind is the of su-bmax_ ;stylo-maxillary ligament separating it from the parotid. Occupying illary gland, a position somewhat below the side of the jaw, the gland is very near the surface, being covered only by the integuments and platysma, and the deep fascia. In structure the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 30) ; Structure, and its duct—duct of Wharton—issuing from the deep process, extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection, belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without injury the submaxillary gland from beneath the bone. The mylo-hyoid muscle (fig. 33, 3) is triangular in shape, with Myio- the base at the jaw and the apex at the hyoid bone, and unites hy°ldeus along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises arises from from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw jaw; as far back as the last molar tooth ; and is inserted into the middle inserted of the body of the os hyoides, as well as into a central tendinous ^ne!^0101 band between that bone and the jaw.' On the cutaneous surface lie the digastric muscle, and the sub- Parts maxillary gland, the facial artery with the submental offset, and around lL its own branch of nerve and artery. Its fibres are frequently deficient near the jaw, and allow the next muscle to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The parts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be perceived after the undermentioned dissection has been made. Action. The lower jaw being fixed the muscle approaches the os Use: on os hyoides to the jaw, enlarging the pharynx preparatory to swallowing. nY°ldes> With the hyoid bone immoveable, the mylo-hyoideus can help in 011jaw depressing the jaw, and opening the mouth.