115 CERVICAL GANGLIA OF SYMPATHETIC. means of the ascending offset from the ganglion into the carotid some in the canal (p. 20). skulL Branches for Distribution. This set of branchea is more numerous Branches, than the preceding, and the nerves are larger in size. Branches for blood-vessels (nervi-molles). These nerves surround To external the external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches so as to carotld» form plexuses on the arteries with the same names as the vessels : some small ganglia are occasionally found on these ramifying nerves. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the sub- forming maxillary ganglion communicates with the sympathetic ; and ganglia • through the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic gang- lion obtains a similar communication. Another offset from the upper part of the ganglion accompanies ^r^1t*elrnaI the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it divides into two pieces, which enter the canal for the carotid, one on each side of that vessel : and are continued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain, forming secondary plexuses on the *Jj°in ophthalmic and cerebal arteries. In the carotid canal communica- nerves; tions are formed with the tympanic nerve (p. 109) and with the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 142) ; with the former near the lower end, and with the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the brain are described at p. 20. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, to pharyn- where they join with other branches of the cranial nerves in the geal Plexus> pharyngeal plexus (p. 111). Cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join in the plexuses of the to cardiac heart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz. superior, plexuses» middle, and inferior, each taking its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior cardiac nerve (superficial) of the right side courses superficial behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and enters the thorax cardiac beneath the subclavian artery. In the neck the nerve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent nerve. In some bodies it ends by joining joins others one of the other cardiac nerves. 111 neck- The middle cervical ganglion (gang, thyroideum) is of small Middle size, and is situate opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, usually on gangll0n- or near the inferior thyroid artery. It has a roundish shape, and Situation- lies beneath the great vessels. Its branches are the following :— Connecting branches with the spinal nerves sink between the is joined to borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus, to join the fifth serves • and sixth cervical nerves. Branches for Distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid offsets,, body, together with the middle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid artery, thyroid and end in the thyroid body ; they join the external and recurrent bianche*s laryngeal nerves. The middle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across middle the subclavian artery ; its termination in the cardiac plexus will cardiac- i 2