106 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Part in temporal bone. Offset to the tympanum. Cranial part. Internal jugular vein. joins sub- clavian. Is on out- side of carotids. Size. Below os hyoides, is joined by branches. Ascending pharyngeal artery gives near skull nerve, furnishing the external laryngeal branch ; together with pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic. Close to the skull the cranial nerves of the neck are interposed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic, and offsets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The cervical portion of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous ; and it usually does not furnish any branch. Part in the temporal bone. In the carotid canal the winding course of the vessel commences. The artery first ascends in front of the inner ear (cochlea and tympanum) ; next it is directed forwards almost horizontally ; and lastly it turns upwards into the cranium opposite the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). Branches of the sympathetic nerve surround the carotid in the bone. Whilst in the canal the artery supplies a small branch to the cavity of the tympanum. The cranial part of the artery is described with the base of the skull (p. 19). The internal jugular vein is continuous with the lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the foramen jugulare nearly to the first rib. At the lower part of the neck it joins the subclavian to form the innominate vein (p. 71). As far as the thyroid cartilage the vein accompanies the internal carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid artery; and it lies on the outer side, of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close throughout, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a still larger intervening space (p. 75), in which the pneumogastric nerve with its cardiac branch is found. The size of the upper part of the vein remains much the same till near the os hyoides, where it is suddenly increased by the addition of those branches of the head and neck, corresponding with branches of the external carotid artery, which do not join the external jugular vein.0 Its lower dilatation and its valves have been before referred to (p. 75). The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz., the facial, lingual, thyroid (superior), occipital, and pharyngeal ; and at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle thyroid vein. The ascending pharyngeal artery (fig. 25, g) is a long slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the commencement of that vessel. Directed upwards on the spinal column between the internal carotid and the pharynx, it becomes tortuous near the skull, and enters the pharynx above the upper constrictor to end in the soft palate. In the neck the artery gives some small offsets to * Sometimes the term internal cephalic is applied to the vein between the skull and the hyoid bone ; and the name internal jugular, to the part below that bone and the junction of its large branches.