DISSECTION OF THE KECK. 114 Other gang- lia on fifth nerve. Dissection of upper ganglion. Middle and inferior ganglion. Superior _ ganglion is near skull, "beneath carotid. with spinal nerves, with cranial outside skull, and in jugular foramen; and with the ganglia proceed connecting branches with the spinal and most of the cranial nerves in the neck ; and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck in connection with the three trunks of the fifth nerve. Dissection. To display the branches of the sympathetic nerve requires greater care than is necessary in tracing the white-fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their branches have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be required, to bring them into view :—The jugular vein having been cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the carotid artery, and the trunks of the vagus and hypo- glossal nerves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loop between the first and second spinal nerves. The several branches of the ganglion are to be traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharynx, down along the neck, and outwards to other nerves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inferior thyroid artery, and its branches to spinal nerves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part of the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian artery is to be cut through, inside the scalenus, and drawn aside, without however destroying the fine nerves that pass over it. The clavicle is sup- posed not to be in position. The ganglion is placed on the neck of the first rib ; its branches are large, and are easily followed out- wards to the vertebral artery and the spinal nerves, and downwards to the thorax. The superior cervical ganglion is the largest of the three, and is of a reddish-grey colour. Of a fusiform shape, it is as long as the second and third cervical vertebrae, and is placed on the rectus, capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves ; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels,, the pharynx, and the heart. Connecting branches unite the sympathetic with both the spinal and the cranial nerves. With the spinal nerves. The four highest spinal nerves have branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the offset to the fourth nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. --With the cranial nerves. Near the skull the trunks of the vagus (its lower ganglion) and hypoglossal nerves are joined by branches of the sympathetic. In the foramen jugulare also, both the petrosal ganglion of the glossopharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of the vagus receive small filaments, one to each, from an ascending offset of the ganglion. Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves by