DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 206 is connected to the middle occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (c). The inferior (9), less well marked than the other two, forms part also of the inner surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe (p. 208). By the upper end it is united to the third occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (d). with parallel The parallel sulcus (P, fig. 60), named from its position to the Sylvian fissure, extends from the lower end of the temporo-sphe- noidal lobe to the angular convolution. Central lobe e. The convolutions of the central lobe ((7, fig. 61), about six in number, are straight for the most part, and are separated by shallow sulci : they are directed upwards from apex to base of the lobe. The posterior gyri are the longest and broadest; and the anterior joins the convolution of the under surface of the orbital lobule. B. The convolutions of the inner surface of the hemisphere (fig. 62) are generally well defined ; but some being so long as to reach beyond the extent of a lobe, the arrangement of them in lobes cannot be followed, as on the exterior. Dissection. Without the use of a separate hardened hemisphere, the parts to be now described will not be seen satisfactorily. If the student possesses only one brain, he may bring into view much of the inner surface by cutting off the left hemisphere as low as the white corpus callosum in the median fissure. Convolution of the corpus callosum, gyrus fornicatus (18), is long and simple, and arches round the body from which it takes its name. Beginning at the base of the brain in the anterior perforated spot, it bends backwards in contact with the corpus callosum ((7aZ), and below the back of that body blends by a narrowed piece with the uncinate convolution (19) of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Anteriorly a sulcus separates it from the following convolution ; and smaller gyri often connect the two across that sulcus. Marginal The marginal convolution (17) is named from its position on the convolution, ec]ge 0f the median fissure. Its extent is rather more than half the length of the hemisphere, for it begins in front at the anterior perforated spot, and terminates near the back of the corpus callosum, just behind the fissure of Kolando. It is much subdivided on the surface; and on the under part of the frontal lobe (fig. 61) it lies internal to the olfactory sulcus. Between it and the preceding convolution is situate the calloso-marginal sulcus (i) which marks its hinder limit. The calloso-marginal sulcus (i. Huxley), designated from its situation, begins in front below the corpus callosum, and ends behind, near the back of the same body, by ascending to the edge of the hemisphere. Smaller gyri uniting the two bounding convo- lutions, frequently interrupt it ; and secondary sulci are prolonged from it into the same convolutions. The quadrilateral lobule (18') reaches from the marginal convolu- tion in front to the parietal-occipital fissure behind. It is much divided by sulci, and projects above to the edge of the hemisphere ; it joins below the gyrus fornicatus. lower, sulcus. convolu- tions. Convolu- tions on inner sur- face of he- misphere. How to set them. Convolution of corpus callosum. and calloso- marginal sulcus. Quadrilate* ral lobule.