584 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. To remove Dissection. The contents of the pelvis are to be removed, together the viscera, wjth the genital organs. For this purpose the student should keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid injuring the end of the rectum ; and he should also detach the crus of the clitoris from the bone, and prepare After the parts are taken from the body, the rectum is to be them. separated from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united until after the genital organs are examined. The bladder and rectum may be moderately distended ; and the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed from the viscera. External organs. Mons Veneris, and labia majora. Fourchette and fossa navicularis. Clitoris; dissection to see it. It is like the penis; has a glans and pre- puce. Composi- tion, corpora cavernosa, GENITAL ORGANS. The genital organs consist of the following parts :—the mons Veneris and external labia, the clitoris and internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the external labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen. Sometimes the term vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. Mons Veneris and labia pudendi. In front of the pubes the integu- ment is covered with hair, and is raised into a slight eminence,— mons Veneris, by a mass of subjacent fat. Extending downwards from the prominence are two folds of integument, the labia pudendi (labia majora), which correspond with the scrotum in the male. Above and below, the labia are united, the points of junction being named commissures ; and between them is an interval called rima. The labia decrease in thickness inf eriorly ; they are covered externally with a few hairs, but are lined internally with mucous membrane. In them is a dartoid tissue resembling that in the male scrotum. Within the lower commissure of the labia is a small thin transverse fold of integuments named fourehette, or frmnulum ; and between this fold and the lower commissure is an interval—the fossa navicularis. Clitoris and nymphce. Beneath the upper commissure of the labia majora is the projection of the clitoris, with the nymphge or smaller labia descending from it. Dissection. To see the clitoris, the integuments forming the upper commissure must be removed ; and, after the body of the organ has been laid bare, the crura, one on each side, are' to be followed outwards. The clitoris (fig. 183, b) is a small erectile body, and is the repre- sentative of the penis. It has the same composition as the penis, except that the urethra is not continued along it. Its anterior extremity is terminated by a rounded part or glans (c), and is covered by a fold of the skin corresponding with the prepuce of the male. In its structure this organ resembles the penis in the following particulars :—it consists of corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura (one on each side a) to the pubic arch, and are blended in the body. Along the middle is an imperfect pectiniform septum.