266 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Two exter- nal cutane- ous of mus- culo-spiral, upper, and lower. One of mus culo-cuta- neous. Two inter- nal cutane- ous of bra cli ial plexus: large and small. Cutaneous of musculo - spiral. Intercosto- humeral. Deep fascia of the arm. Disposition above and below ; forms inter- muscular septa. Directions to be ob- served. External cutaneous Nerves. The external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are two in number, and appear at the outer side of the limb about the middle. The upper small one turns forwards with the cephalic vein, and reaches the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The lower and larger pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, and after supplying some cutaneous filaments, is continued to the forearm. The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia in front of the elbow ; it lies beneath the median cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. Internal cutaneous Nerves. The larger internal cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia in two pieces, or as one trunk that divides almost directly into two :—Its external branch passes beneath the median basilic vein to the front of the forearm ; and the internal winds over the inner condyle of the humerus to the back of the forearm. A cutaneous offset of the nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far as the elbow : it supplies the integuments over the inner part of the biceps muscle. The small internal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg) appears below the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives offsets to the lower third of the arm on the inner and posterior surfaces, and joins above the elbow the inner branch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, becoming subcutaneous in the upper third, winds to the back of the arm, and reaches nearly as far as the olecranon. The intercosto-humeral branch of the second intercostal nerve (p. 238), perforates the fascia near the axilla, and ramifies in the inner side and posterior surface of the arm in the upper half. But the size and distribution of the nerve will depend upon the develop- ment of the small internal cutaneous and the offset of the musculo-spiral. The aponeurosis of the arm is a white shining membrane which surrounds the limb, and sends inwards processes between the muscles. Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons :—thus in front of the elbow an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins it ; and near the axilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres, send prolongations to it. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula, clavicle, and chest. Inferiorly it is continued to the forearm, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the elbow joint, especially to the condyloid ridges of the humerus, so as to give rise to the intermuscular septa of the arm. Directions. As the back of the arm will not be dissected now, the skin may be replaced on it until the front has been examined.