CARTILAGE OF AURICLE. 35 It arises from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres are directed upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of the antihelix. The small muscle of the helix (fig. 8, 4) is often indistinct or One on root absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends of hellx- into the concha. The large muscle of the helix (fig. 8,3) arises above the small ^}?*her on muscle of the same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse muscle of the auricle (fig. 8,6) forms a wide layer, And one at which is situate at the back of the ear in the depression between COncha. the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage forming the concha, and is inserted into the back of the helix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen Avhen that tissue is removed. Actions. These muscles are said to alter slightly the condition of Use. the outer ear ; the muscles of the helix assisting, and those of the tragus and antitragus retarding the passage of sonorous undulations to the meatus. Dissection. The pinna may now be detached by cutting it close Clean the to the bone. When the integuments are entirely taken off, the cartllage- cartilage of the pinna will be apparent ; but in removing the integuments, the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 8. The cartilage of the pinna (fig. 8) resembles much the external Cartilage ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. The rim of the oTextemal helix subsides posteriorly in the antihelix about the middle of the ear- pinna ; whilst anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The antihelix is divided about Deficient two-thirds down into two pieces ; one of these is pointed, and is mfenorly> joined by the helix, the other is continued into the antitragus. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical process of cartilage. Inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external and at tipper auditory aperture in the temporal bone, and forms a portion of the meatus, meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and outer part that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of cartilage forming the outer end of the meatus its fissures, are two fissures (Santorini) : one is at the base of the tragus, the other passes from before backwards. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, but others pass Ligaments: from one point to another of the cartilage. The external ligaments are condensed bands of fibrous tissue, and external; are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior passes from the back of the concha to the mastoid process. The chief special ligament crosses the interval between the tragus and special, the helix, and completes the tube of the auditory meatus. The facial nerve (portio dura, fig. 9) or the seventh cranial Outline of nerve, confers contractility on the muscles of the face. Numerous facial nervc^ d 2