415 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. The middle set enter the substance of the crescent, and are lost and the in it and the cells of the intermediate tract. crescent The posterior root (j) pierces chiefly the posterior column of the Posterior cord, and enters the posterior cornu of the crescent : but a few 100 fibres penetrate by the lateral fissure. It terminates in two bundles of fibres. One bundle courses round the outer side of the vesicular column, joins vesi- . • i _£? r-i -1 cular and some fibres enclosing, and others entering it ; and a few fibrils escape terior into the posterior column of the cord, becoming longitudinal. column, The second bundle is prolonged into the crescent and the inter- f^ucr°em;nd mediate tract, as well as into the transverse commissure behind the crescent, central canal of the cord. Intraspinal Vessels (fig. 127). Arteries supply the cord and its vessels of Fig. 127.* Fig. 128.+ membranes, and the bodies of the vertebrae. The veins form a re- *k£ spinal markable plexus within the canal, but this will not be seen unless the veins have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (a) are derived from the vessels along the j^intrj? sides and front of the spinal column, viz. from the vertebral and spinal ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in the Back, arteries- and from the lumbar and lateral sacral below. They are distributed after the following plan :— As each artery enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral fora- Distribution men, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the ^ andttiV point of division the branches are directed, one (b) upwards and cord the other (c) downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebrae, and join in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- * Intra-spinal arteries in the loins (Museum of University College, London). a. Branch of a lumbar artery, b. Ascending, and c, its descending offset. d. Offset to the body of the vertebra on each side. e. Central artery formed by offsets from the lateral loops. f Intra-spinal veins in the loins, a. Branch to join a lumbar vein. b. Anterior longitudinal vein, one on each side. c. Veins from the bodies of the vertebras.