341 EIGHT VENTRICLE OF HEAET. heart, which encloses fibrous tissue. The central part of each tongue is strong, whilst the edges are thin and notched ; and between the stronger pieces there are sometimes thinner points (Kurschner). The chordae tendinem, which keep the valve in place, ascend attachment from the musculi papillares into the intervals between the pieces nou^cords. of the valve, and are connected with both.* They end on the surface of the valve turned away from the opening ;—some reaching the attached upper margin ; others entering the central thickened part, and the thin edge and point of the tongue. As the blood enters the cavity the valve is raised so as to close Its use. the opening into the auricle ; and its protrusion into the other cavity during the contraction of the ventricle is arrested by the small tendinous cords. The valve participates in the production of the first sound of the heart. The mouth of the pulmonary artery (g) will be seen when the Mouth of incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged into it. artery^aiy Bound in shape, it is situate on the left of the opening into the P°sition; auricle, and is opposite the inner end of the second intercostal space of the left side. Its diameter is rather less than an inch. Into it the funnel-shaped portion of the right ventricle is prolonged, has three and in its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves. Semilunar valves. Each valve is attached to the side of the vessel their attach- by its convex border ; and is free by the opposite edge, in which there is a slightly thickened nodule—the corpus Arantii. In the wall of the artery opposite each valve is a slight hollow, the sinus of Valsalva, which is better marked in the aorta. The valves resemble the tricuspid in structure, for they are formed Structure of of fibrous tissue with a covering of the lining membrane. In each valves.^ valve the fibres have this arrangement: there is one band along the attached margin ; a second along the free edge, which is connected with the projecting nodule ; and a third set of fibres is directed from the nodule across the valve, so as to leave a semilunar interval on each side near the free edge, which has been named lunula. The use of the valves is obvious, viz. to give free passage to fluid Their use. in one direction, and to prevent its return. Whilst the blood is entering the artery the valves are placed against the wall; but when the elasticity of the vessel acts on the contained blood the valves are thrown towards the centre of the vessel, and arrest the flow of the fluid into the ventricle. They are concerned also in giving rise to the second sound of the heart. Dissection. To open the cavity of the left auricle the apex of the To open left heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made across the posterior surface of the auricle from the right to the left pulmonary veins. Another short incision should be made downwards at right angles to the first. The apex of the heart must necessarily be raised during the examination of the cavity. * The papillary muscles are collected into two principal groups, whose ten- dons enter the interval on each side of the anterior tongue of the valve. In the interval between the left and posterior segments of the valve the tendinous cords are very small, and spring from the septum ventriculorum.