DISSECTION OF THE PEBINJEUM. 418 and folds and veins around that opening. Bounding parts same as those of outlet of pelvis. Form of the space, and measure- ments. Depth of the space. A line be- tween the tuberosities divides it into t\* o. folds, but these are more or less obliterated by the position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; and projecting oftentimes through and around the opening are some dilated veins (hEemor- rhoids). Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perinatal space will be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to correspond with the inferior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis. The limits may be seen on a dry or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire ; and the student should trace on the body the individual boundaries with his finger. In front is the arch of the pubes ; and at the posterior part is the tip of the coccyx, with the great gluteal muscles. On each side in front is the portion of the innominate bone which forms the pubic arch, viz. from the pubes to the ischial tuberosity ; and still further back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuber ischii to the tip of the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as the recto-vesical fascia, which forms its floor. Form and size. The interval included within the boundaries above said has the form of a lozenge, and measures about four inches from before backwards, and three inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth. The depth of the perinseum from the surface to the floor may be said to be generally about three inches at the anus, but this measurement varies in different bodies ; and it amounts to about an inch near the pubes. Division. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one side to the corresponding point on the other, will divide the perinseal space into two triangular parts. The anterior half (urethral) contains the penis and the urethra, with their muscles, and vessels and nerves. The posterior half (rectal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. Contents and general position, of anal half. Dissection This portion of the perinseal space contains the lower end of the rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscles and the muscles acting on the anus. The gut does not occupy however the whole of the interval between the pelvic bones ; for on each side is a space, the ischio-rectal fossa, in which is contained much loose fat, with the vessels and nerves for the supply of the end of the gut. Dissection (fig. 129). The skin is to be raised from this part of the peringeum by the employment of the following cuts :—One is to be made across the perinaeum at the front of the anus, and is to be extended rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx in the same direction, and for the same distance. The two transverse of sphincter, cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the mid-line, and around the anus. The flaps of skin thus marked out, are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle line : in detaching the skin from the margin of the anus, the superficial subcutaneous