INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERYE. 89 tomose with the superficial temporal artery : the anterior communi- cates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery (p. 45). When the parent trunk has the unusual position beneath the pterygoideus, the anterior branch lies under that muscle, instead of over it. The masseteric artery is directed outwards with the nerve of the to the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle; and passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the under surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other offsets to the muscle from the external carotid trunk. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and in the to the buc~ unusual position of the artery it may perforate the fibres of the cmator» pterygoideus ; it descends beneath the coronoid process with its companion nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle and the cheek, joining branches of the facial artery. The pterygoid branches are uncertain in their position ; whether to pterygoid derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal musc es* maxillary, they enter both pterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise from the artery when it enters the Branches of spheno-maxillary fossa, only one, the superior dental, will be now oni^one^ described. The remainder will be examined with the superior now seen, maxillary nerve, and Meckel's ganglion ; they are infraorbital (p. 102), superior palatine, naso-palatine, vidian, and pterygo-palatine (Section 14). The superior or posterior dental branch takes origin near the top Superior of the upper maxilla, and descends with a tortuous course on the dentaL outer surface of that bone, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. It sends twigs into the foramina in the bone, and supplies the upper molar and bicuspid teeth ; but some external _ offsets are furnished to the gums. A few branches reach the lining membrane of the antrum. The internal maxillary veins receive the offsets accompanying internal the branches of the artery in the first two parts of its course : these veinbeglna veins form a plexus—pterygoid, between the two pterygoid muscles, in plexus, and between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This anastomosis communicates with the alveolar plexus ; with the facial vein by a large branch (anterior internal maxillary) ; and with the cavernous sinus in the interior of the skull, by veinules that pass through the base of the cranium. * Escaping from the plexus, the vein accompanies the artery to the and ends in parotid gland, and there joins the superficial temporal vein,—the j^J^ar? union of the two giving rise to the external jugular. Sometimes this vessel enters the internal jugular vein (p. 29). The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 21) is the largest Of the Inferior three trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion (p. 18). It leaves nerre!^ the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid Done, and divides beneath the external pterygoid muscle into two chief pieces, viz. an anterior, small, moto-sensory piece; and a large, posterior, chiefly sensory portion.