589 ANATOMY OF UTEKUS. Interior of the uterus (fig. 185). Within the uterus is a small space, which is divided artificially into two—that of the body, and that of the neck. The space occupying the body of the viscus (c) is triangular in form, and is larger than the other. Its base is at the fundus, where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged to- wards the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed downwards, and joins the cavity in the cervix by a narrowed circular part, isthmus, which may be narrower than the opening of the uterus into the vagina. The space within the neck (d) terminates inferiorly at the os uteri, and is continuous above with the cavity within the body. It is larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, Fig. 185.* In the interior is a trian- gular space in the body, which is narrowed below: and a spindle- shaped space in the neck. and is somewhat flattened like the cavity of the body. Along both the anterior and the posterior wall is a longitudinal ridge ; and other ridges (rugce) are directed obliquely from these on each side : In the neck this appearance has been named arbor vitce uterinus. In the intervals are ridges of between the rugae are mucous follicles, which sometimes become vit£e^rb°r distended with fluid, and give rise to rounded clear sacs. Structure. The dense wall of the uterus is composed of layers uterus is a of unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed with areolar and elastic muscular tissues, and large bloodvessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum ; organ- and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period of m, . r There are gestation to form three strata m the wall of the uterus, viz., ex- three strata: ternal, internal, and middle :— The external layer contains fibres which are mostly transverse ; external, but at the fundus and sides they are oblique, and are more marked than along the middle of the organ. At the sides the fibres con- verge towards the broad ligament; some are inserted into the sub- * Interior of the uterus, with a posterior view of the broad ligament and the uterine appendages, a. Body, and b, neck of the uterus, c. Cavity of the body, and d, of the neck. e. Fallopian tube, and /, its trumpet-shaped end. g. The fimbria attached to the ovary, h. Ovary, and i} ligament of the ovary, k. Parovarium.