DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 582 mperfect septum, trabecule. Blood- vessels : lielicine arteries, source of arteries ; termination of the veins, Nerves. Lymphatics. 177, 6) projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite the tube of the urethra ; this is best marked for a short distance in front of the bulb, and assists in dividing that part into two lobes. The trabecular bands are much finer, and more uniform in size than in the corpora cavernosa. Bloodvessels. The arrangement of the bloodvessels in the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is similar in the bulb to that in the corpora cavernosa ; but in the rest of the spongy substance the arteries are said to end in capillaries in the usual way. The helicine terminations of the arteries are absent from the glans penis, where the veins form a very close and regular plexus. The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side :—one, artery of the bulb (p. 431), enters the bulb behind ; and several in front, offsets of the dorsal artery (p. 441), penetrate into the glans. Kobelt describes another branch to the bulb at the upper aspect. Most of the veins, including those of the glans, end in the large dorsal vein of the penis, some communicating with veins of the cavernous body : others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the penis are large and are supplied by both the spinal and sympathetic nerves : on the glans penis they are furnished with Pacinian bodies. The superficial lymphatics of the integuments, and those beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra, join the inguinal glands ; the deep ac- company the veins beneath the arch of the pubes, to end in the lymphatic glands in the pelvis. THE EECTUM. To prepare the gut. Rectum is smooth. Length; dimensions. Same coats as in the rest of the intestine. Peritoneum. Muscular coat Dissection. The rectum is to be washed out, and then distended with tow ; and the peritoneum and the loose fat are to be removed from it. The lower end of the large intestine, which is contained in the pelvis, is not sacculated like the colon, but is smooth on the surface, the longitudinal bands of the colon being absent from it. It is about eight inches in length ; and its average diameter is that of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Its size is uniform as far as the lower extremity, where it is dilated, particularly in old people ; but at the aperture of termination in the anus the gut is smaller than elsewhere. Structure. The rectum contains in its wall a peritoneal, a muscular, a mucous, and a submucous stratum ; and the muscular and mucous layers have certain characters which distinguish this part of the intestinal tube. The peritoneum forms but an incomplete covering, and its arrange- ment is referred to in the description of the connections of the pelvic viscera (p. 552). The muscular coat consists of two planes of pale or unstriated fibres, viz., a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular.