VILLI OF SMALL INTESTINE. 497 They begin in the duodenum, about one or two inches beyond extent on the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle *jneemtes' of the jejunum ; but beyond that point they become smaller and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudi- mentary. The folds are largest and most uniform beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile duct. The aperture of the- common bile and pancreatic ducts (fig. 148, e) Opening of is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches from the pylorus, and Meduct> Fig. 148.* is situate in a small prominence of the mucous membrane, at the where inner and posterior part of the duodenum (p. 483). A probe passed Sltuate- into the bile duct will show the oblique course (half an inch) under the mucous coat. Sometimes the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct orifice. Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane. With the use of the Parts to he microscope, and with pieces of fresh intestine, the student will be jntestinetlie able to make out the nature of the villi, the glandular bodies, and the epithelium. Villi. When a piece of the lower part of the duodenum, from The villi which the mucus is washed away, is examined in water, the mucous surface1-6 membrane will be seen to be studded over thickly with small pro- jections, like those on velvet. These bodies exist along the whole their shape, of the small intestine, and are irregular in form (fig. 151, A) some 8ize* being triangular, others conical or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from -^th to -^th of an inch ; and they are best marked where the valvulse conniventes are largest. In the duode- and number num their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in * The duodenum opened showing the valvule conniventes, and the opening of the bile duct. The duct of the pancreas is also represented in greater part of its course, a. Duodenum, b. Pancreas, c. Common bile duct. d. Pan- creatic duct. e. Opening of the common duct in the intestine (Henle). K K