633 OBTURATOR NERVE AND BRANCHES. articular artery, and occasionally one to the under surface of the pectineus. The adductor brevis (fig. 196, D) has a thin fleshy and aponeu- Adductor rotic attachment, about two inches in depth, to the front of the hip thin at the bone with the gracilis. The muscle arises from the pubic border onsm of the bone close to and outside the gracilis, reaching upwards as high as the adductor longus, and not quite so low as the gracilis. It is inserted, behind the pectineus, into all the line leading from the and wide at linea aspera to the small trochanter. tion. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor longus, Parts in with the superficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the profunda lront' artery ; but it is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their in- sertion into the femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, behind, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve and a branch of the inner circumflex artery. In contact with the upper border lies the and at upper border. obturator externus, F, and the internal circumflex artery passes between the two. Action. This muscle adducts the limb with slight flexion of the ^^nfree hip joint, like the pectineus. And if it acts from the femur it will balance and move forwards the pelvis. and fixed" The obturator nerve (fig. 196, l) is a branch of the lumbar ^^ator plexus (p. 543), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as well as the hip and knee joints. The nerve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and J^two* it divides in that opening into two pieces, which are named super- ficial and deep from their position with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. A. The superficial part (*) of the nerve is directed over the adduc- fij^f part tor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus, to entis 011 the femoral artery, on which it is distributed ; at the lower border ^ry^and of the last muscle it furnishes an offset or two to join in a plexus . . joins plexus with the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves (p. 628), and in the thigh: supply the teguments."' ? joint, In the aperture of exit, this piece of the nerve sends outwards an ^Mpj^ a articular twig to the hip joint with the joint-artery. Muscular branches are furni ductor brevis, and the gracilis. Muscular branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the ad- muscular to adductors. B. The deep piece (4) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of J^nerve* °f the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis, is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it:— Muscidar branches enter the obturator externus as the nerve adductor pierces it ; others are furnished to the large, and sometimes to the magnus, short adductor. A slender articular branch (fig. 196, 5) enters the fibres of the ^nlhto adductor magnus, and passes through this near the linea aspera to knee joint. * In some bodies the superficial part of the nerve is of large size, and lias a distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, whose place it takes : in such instances it joins freely in the plexus.