DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 348 and in central: not spiral at apex. Common fibres in front, Cavity produced. Septum of ventricles. How formed; fibres. Lining membrane of the heart forms folds in the inte- rior. Thickness and struc- ture. Vessels of the heart. The pulmo- nary artery divides into two for the lungs. Connec- tions. Ligament of arterial duct. septum ventriculorum, where they leave the surface, and bending back construct the right part of the septum : at the back of that partition they blend with the " common fibres" of the left ventricle. The fourth layer fibres are continuous for the most part with the " common fibres " crossing the posterior groove. At the apex the three outer layers do not enter in a whorl as in the left ventricle ; but at the base they are continuous with the three inner as on the other side of the heart. Many of the fibres of the external layer are attached to the ring of the pulmonary artery ; and the narrow slip from the right to the left ventricle, near the base in front, receives its fibres from the two outer strata. In this ventricle the fibres are arranged as if there had been ori- ginally one common cavity in the heart—the left ventricle, from which the right had been separated during the growth by a pushing inwards of a partition from the fore part. Septum ventriculorum. This partition between the two cavities has been divided anteriorly into right and left portions by the previous dissection ; and the layers of the ventricles may be traced into them. It is rather thicker than the wall of the left ventricle, and is formed by the fibres of both ventricles. About one-third belongs to the right, and two-thirds to the left ventricle. Where the two portions touch the fibres mingle, and altogether behind lie the " common fibres " of the two ventricles. Endocardium. Lining the interior of the cavities of the heart is a thin membrane, which is named endocardium. It is continuous on the one hand with the lining of the veins, and on the other with that of the arteries. "Where the membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or from a ventricle to an artery, it forms duplicatures or valves, in which fibrous tissue is enclosed ; and in the ventricles it covers the tendinous cords of the valves, and the projecting mus- cular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is greater in the auricles than in the ventricles, and in the left than in the right half of the heart. In its structure it resembles a serous membrane. Great Vessels of the Heart. The arteries which take origin from the heart are the aorta and the pulmonary. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coronary, are the superior and inferior cava, and the pulmonary. The pulmonary artery is a short thick trunk, which conveys the dark or impure blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From its commencement in the right ventricle the vessel is directed upwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches, it divides into two branches of nearly equal size for the lungs. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the pericardium ; and beneath it is the beginning of the aorta. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricular appendix. Near the bifurcation of the artery is a ligamentous cord about as large as a crow-quill, the remnant of the arterial duct, which passes