614 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Vessels have areolar sheath. Contents of crural sheath. surrounded by its covering of areolar tissue, together with an in- guinal gland ; and if a piece of the areolar casing be cut out over both the artery and the vein, there will be an appearance of two thin partitions, the one being situate on the inner side of the vein, separating this vessel from the gland, and the other (J) between the vein and the artery. A fatty stratum stretches over the upper aperture of the sheath, closing it towards the abdomen. Interior of the crural sheath (fig. 192). The sheath is said to be divided into three compartments by two partitions ; and the posi- Fig. 192.* Space divided into three : the inner is the crural canal, tion of the so-called septa has been before referred to,—one being internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compartment is contained the femoral artery (<&), lying close to the side of the sheath ; in the middle one is placed the femoral vein (b) ; and in the inner space (crural canal) only a lymphatic gland (c) is situate. The crural canal (fig. 192) is the innermost space in the interior of the crural sheath :—Its length is about a third of an inch, and it reaches from the base of Gimbernat's ligament to the upper cornu of the saphenous opening. It decreases rapidly in size from above down, and is closed below. The aperture by which the space com- municates with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring. * Dissection of the crural sheath (Illustrations of dissections), a. Fascia lata reflected, b. Crural sheath opened, c. Poupart's ligament, d. Fascia lata of the thigh in place. J Two septa dividing the space of the crural sheath into three compartments. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, b. Femoral vein, and c, a lymphatic gland, all in the crural sheath, d. Superficial cir- cumflex iliac, e. Superficial pudic. /. Saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. Genito- crural. 2. Ilio-inguinal. 4. External cutaneous.