DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 142 small; and external palatine. Pharyngeal branch. Orbital branches. Whilst in the canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments (inferior nasal f) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in the roof of the mouth it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an offset to the soft palate. The small palatine nerve, 10 (posterior), lies in the smaller canal, and ends inferiorly in the soft palate, and the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles ; it supplies the uvula and tonsil. The external palatine nerve is smaller than the other two, and descends in the canal of the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. The pharyngeal branch is very small, and is directed through the pterygo-palatine canal to the mucous membrane of the pharynx near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. Branches to the orbit. Two or three in number, these ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the fleshy layer of Fig. 34.* Uniting branche to fifth, the musculus orbitalis (p. 50). It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, with the spheno-palatine branches of the fifth nerve (fig. 34, 7), receiving sensory nerve fibres through them ; and through the medium of the vidian, which is described below, it communicates with a motor nerve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve, and to facial The vidian nerve (8) passes backwards through the vidian canal anci sympa- an(j sends some small filaments, through the bone, to the membrane through the at the back of the roof of the nose (tipper posterior nasal branches) vidian. * Nerves of the nose and palate. 1. Olfactory nerve. 2. Olfactory bulb giving branches to the nose. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. 5. Fifth nerve. 6. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic trunk. 7. Meckel's ganglion 8. Vidian nerve. 9. Larger palatine nerve. 10. Smaller palatine nerve ft Nasal nerves.