475 PERITONEAL FOLDS ON INTESTINE. the wall of the abdomen by processes of the peritoneum (meso- attaching colic), which are formed of two pieces, like the other folds, though ^e^oms" they are at some distance from each other. Each part of the colon has a separate meso-colon attaching it, thus there is an ascending, a transverse, a descending, and a sigmoid meso-colon. The caecum is fixed by a meso-caecum, and the rectum by a meso-rectum. The meso-coscum attaches the caput caecum coli to the right iliac meso- fossa. Usually the peritoneum does not surround the gut so as to C8ecum» form a fold behind it, but in some bodies the serous membrane furnishes a suspensory process to this part of the intestine. By the ascending and the descending meso-colon the ascending and ascending, the descending parts of the colon are kept in place. In the folds, meso-colon; as in that of the caecum, the peritoneum does not commonly surround the intestine, though it may meet behind the gut and form pro- cesses of some length. The upper end of the left colon has a distinct fold—pleuro-colic, pleuro-colic fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a wide end to ' the diaphragm opposite the eleventh or tenth rib, it passes trans- versely below the spleen, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The transverse meso-colon is a more perfect fold than either of the transverse others connected with the large intestine, and serves as a partition meso"co between the small intestine and the stomach, liver, and spleen. By one side it is fixed to the colon, and by the other to the abdominal wall below the pancreas. It encloses the vessels of the colon between its layers. The sigmoid meso-colon is a lonsr process of the serous membrane, and sigmoid meso-colon * and attaches the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum contains the haemorrhoidal vessels and connects mes°- the rectum to the front of the sacrum. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of ^p^^es the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon ; they are the appendices epiploicaz, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not enveloped Peritoneal by the peritoneum after the same manner throughout. For whilst smaii intes- the jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall by one tine- process (mesentery), the duodenum has special connections with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. The first part of the duodenum Peritoneum is surrounded by peritoneum, like the stomach. The second part IS num. covered only in front. And the last part, which crosses the aorta, is but slightly in contact with the serous membrane ; for it lies at first between the strata of the transverse meso-colon, and then beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. Fold of the jejunum and ileum. The mesentery supports the rest Mesentery; of the small intestine, and is stronger than any other piece of the serous membrane. Its inner end is narrow, and is attached to the form> spine from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the junction of the right hip bone with the sacrum. The other end of the fold ments" is wide, and is connected with the intestine. .Between its two layers