109 GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. the spinal accessory backwards to the sterno-mastoideus and consists of xhree ranks : trapezius muscles ; and the pneumo-gastric nerve descends to the j^66 viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE (fig. 25, l) IS the Smallest Of the Glosso-pha- three trunks. In the jugular foramen it is placed somewhat in front ryngeal nerve: of the other two, and lies in a groove in the lower border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of exit the has two nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one being fo^neY/1 the jugular, and the lower the petrous ganglion. laceram. • Ganglia. The jugular ganglion, 4, (ganglion superius) is very its upper small, and is situate at the upper end of the osseous groove con- taining the nerve. It is placed on the outer surface of the glosso- pharyngeal trunk, and includes only some fibrils of the nerve. The petrosal ganglion, 5, (gang, inferius) is much larger than the pre- a]^jjj?™ ceding, and encloses all the fibrils of the nerve. Ovalish in form, it is placed in a hollow in the lower border of the temporal bone ; and from it spring the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen it comes forwards between In the neck the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 25, x), and crossing inwards over the artery, reaches the lower border of the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. At this spot the nerve becomes almost trans- courses to verse in direction in its course to the pharynx ; it crosses over the andpha-Ue stylo-pharyngeus, and forms an arch across the side of the neck rynx. above the superior laryngeal nerve. Finally it passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ends in branches to the pharynx, the tonsil, and the tongue. The tranches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed into those Branches connecting it with other nerves at the base of the skull, and those to ^om distributed in the neck. • Connecting brandies arise chiefly from the petrosal ganglion ; with others and in this set is the tympanic nerve. viz-> • A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck to sympathetic join the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is an offset from the and vagus> ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as well as to the upper ganglion of this nerve. The tympanic branch (fig. 26,°) (nerve of Jacobson) enters the facial and aperture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid thetie1" foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum, where it ends in branches : its distribution is given with the tympanum of the ear. Branches for Distribution. In the neck the branches are fur- Distributed nished chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. to a. Carotid branches surround the internal artery of that name, carotid and communicate with the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and arter^» with the sympathetic nerve. b. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus, whilst the stylo-pha- nerve is in contact with it. ryngeus, c. Branches to the pharynx form the pharyngeal plexus by uniting and pharyn- with nerves from the sympathetic and vagus. geal Plexus>