SERRATI AND SPLENITIS MUSCLES 389 Action. The superior serratus raises the upper ribs, and officiates Use of both as an inspiratory muscle ; and the inferior, depressing the lower ribs, and lower, becomes an expiratory muscle. Theile supposes the inferior to act indirectly as a muscle of inspiration, because, by fixing the lower ribs, it enables the diaphragm to contract more effectively. 0 The vertebral aponeurosis is a fibrous expansion, which is spread vertebral over the fourth layer of muscles, and confines the erector spinas in aponeurosis, the vertebral groove. Inferiorly it is thickened by the tendons of the latissimus and Attach- lower serratus ; but it is continued above beneath the splenius, ments • without joining the upper serratus, and blends with the deep fascia a me' of the neck. Internally it is attached to the spinous processes. Externally it inside and is connected to the posterior third of the iliac crest, uniting with outside- the tendon of the latissimus ; to the fascia lumborum between the hip-bone and the ribs ; and in the dorsal region to the ribs and a fascia over the intercostal muscles. Below, between the pelvic and Below, vertebral attachments, it blends with the underlying tendon of the erector spinas and multifidus. • Dissection. The upper serratus is to be cut through, and the Dissection, subjacent vertebral aponeurosis taken away ; and the part of the splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. The splenius muscle (fig. 117) is thin and elongated ; it is un- ^J^^8 divided internally, but is split externally into two parts. It takes origin along the middle line from the six upper dorsal spines, from the seventh cervical, and from the ligamentum nuchas as high as the third cervical vertebra. Some fibres ascend to the head (splenius capitis), and others to the neck (splenius colli). The splenius colli, c, is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- one to the terior transverse processes of the upper three cervical vertebrae with, neck * but behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the attach- , ments: scapula. The splenius capitis, B, much the largest, is inserted by a thin the wide tendon into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, attach_ and into the bone behind it for about an inch and a half. ments. This muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and Connec- the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the occipital bone is be- neath the sterno-mastoideus. The complexus muscle projects above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Action. The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head directly back ; and one will turn the face to the same side. capitis, The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical splenius vertebras ; but one muscle will turn the face to the same side, being colh* able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. 0 Fourth Layer. In this layer are included the spinalis dorsi ; Jj^J^ the erector spinas, with its divisions, and accessory muscles to the muscles, neck ; and the complexus muscle. Most of the vessels and nerves of the Back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection (fig. 118). To lay bare the complexus muscle in the Dissection