496 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Serous coat like that of the stomach, except in the duo- denum. Muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and a circu- lar layer. Dissect fibrous coat. Fibrous coat like that in stomach. >eek glands of Brunner : show mu- cous coat. Mucous coat, thickness, folds, villous surface, and epithe- lium. Submucous muscular layer. Folds; arrange- ment, lengthy size and depth ; how formed coat, but in doing this, the external longitudinal fibres will be taken away without great care. The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular layer. To the jejunum and ileum it furnishes a covering, except at the attached side where the vessels enter : at this spot the peri- toneum is reflected off to form the mesentery, and a space exists resembling that at the borders of the stomach. The peritoneum surrounds the duodenum only partly ; this peculiarity has been described at p. 475. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The fibres are pale in colour, and are not striated. The longitudinal fibres form a thin covering, which is most marked at the free border of the gut. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat : they do not form complete rings around the intestine. Dissection. On the removal of some of the muscular stratum from the jejunum or the ileum, the submucous fibrous layer will come into view. The fibrous coat has the same position and use as the correspond- ing layer in the stomach. Dissection. In the upper part of the duodenum the student is to seek some small compound glands—those of Brunner, which are imbedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the fibrous layer, when the muscular coat has been taken away. The pieces of intestine may be opened and washed to show the mucous coat, but the gut should be cut along the line of attach- ment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's glands on the opposite side. Mucous coat. The lining membrane is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than at the ending of the small intestine. It is marked by numerous prominent folds (valvulse conniventes) ; and the surface of the membrane is covered with small processes (villi) like the pile of velvet. Occupying the substance of the mucous coat are numerous glands ; and covering the whole, is a columnar epithelium. A thin layer of non-striated muscular fibres (muscularis mucosal) covers the outer surface of this coat (fig. 152, cZ), and sends inwards prolongations between the tubules into the villi. The valvulm conniventes (fig. 148, valves of Kerkring) are perma- nent ridges of the mucous membrane, which are arranged circularly in the intestine and project into the alimentary mass. Crescentic in form, they extend round the intestine for half or two thirds of its circle, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger and smaller folds are met with, sometimes alternating ; and the larger are about two inches long, with one third of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each is formed of a doubling of the mucous membrane, which encloses vessels between the layers.