729 CILIARY MUSCLE AND IRIS. cornea ; its fibres are directed backwards, and are inserted into the choroid coat opposite to, and rather behind the ciliary processes. The nerves to the iris pierce it. The circular fibres (ciliary ligament, fig. 229, d) are internal to circular the radiating, and form a ring about -^yth of an inch wide around the edge of the iris : they are not attached to the sclerotic or the cornea. Use. The radiating fibres of the muscle draw forwards the fore Action, part of the choroid coat, and the ciliary processes, and thereby relax the suspensory ligament of the lens. The circular fibres are said to compress the outer part of the lens. The iris (fig. 229, c) is a vascular and muscular structure, about ^^J^" half an inch in diameter, whose vessels are continuous with those muscular, of the choroidal coat. Its position and connections may be observed in the different dissections that have been prepared. Placed within the ring of the ciliary muscle, it is suspended in front Situation, of the lens (fig. 225, /), and is pierced by an aperture for the trans- mission of the light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured Form, in different persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference, it is connected with the choroid coat and the posterior elastic layer of the cornea. The anterior surface is free Anterior in the aqueous humour, and is marked by lines converging towards surface, the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with a thick layer of posterior, pigment (fig. 225), to which the term uvea has been applied. The aperture in it (fig. 229) is the pupil of the eye ; this is The pupil, slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly circular in form, but its size is constantly varying (from -^-th to 4- of an inch) by the contraction of the muscular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the retina. Membrane of the pupil. In the fetus the aperture of the pupil is Membrane closed by a vascular transparent membrane, which is attached tojJ^JJJ^ the edge of the iris, and divides into two distinct chambers the space in which the iris is suspended. The vessels in it are con- situation; tinuous behind with those of the iris and the case of the lens. About the eighth month the vessels become impervious, and at the time of dis- time of birth only fragments of the structure remain. appearance. Structure (fig. 227). The stroma of the iris is composed of fibres Component of areolar tissue, arranged circularly at the circumference ; and as stluetures- radiating bundles passing like rays towards the pupil. In it are involuntary muscular fibres, both circular and radiating, together with pigment cells. Vessels and nerves ramify through the tissue. Muscular fibres. The sphincter of the pupil (fig. 227, d) is a narrow Sphincter band about of an inch wide, which is close to the pupil, on the posterior aspect of the iris. The dilator of the pupil (e) is said and dilator to begin at the outer border of the iris, and to consist of bundles of of pupiL fibres which join one another, and end internally in the sphincter. Action. Enlargement of the pupil is effected by shortening of the ^wtliey radiating fibres ; and diminution, by contraction of the circular ring. The movements of the iris are involuntary and regulate the admission of light into the ball.