RADIAL ARTERY AND OFFSETS. 299 the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the cleft of the fingers. These branches supply the interosseous muscles, and the two or three inner lumbricales ; they vary much in their size and arrangement. d. Digital branches of the radial. The large artery of the thumb (e) ^|^£eg (art. princeps pollicis) runs between the first metacarpal bone and Artery of the flexor brevis pollicis, to the interval between the heads of the the thumb, muscle, where it divides into the two collateral branches of the thumb : these are distributed like the arteries of the superficial arch (p. 292). e. The digital branch of the index finger (d) (art. radialis indicis) ^1ret^eof is directed over the first dorsal interosseous muscle, J, and beneath finger, the short flexor and the adductor pollicis, to the radial side of the forefinger. At the anterior border of the adductor pollicis, D, this branch is usually connected by an offset with the superficial palmar arch ; and at the end of the digit it unites with the branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar artery. The deep branch of the ulnar nerve (2) accompanies the arch of the J^^^11011 radial artery as far as the muscles of the thumb, and terminates nerve, in offsets to the adductor pollicis and the inner head of the short flexor. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the Muscular muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives offsets to all the offsets- palmar and dorsal interosseous muscles, and to the inner two lum- brical muscles (3), besides the terminal branches before mentioned. The transverse metacarpal ligament connects together the heads of Ligament of the four inner metacarpal bones. Its cutaneous surface is hollowed metacarpal where the flexor tendons cross it ; and beneath it the interossei hones, muscles pass to their insertion. To the posterior border the fascia covering the interossei muscles is united. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interossei muscles. The interossei muscles, so named from their position between the Seven inter- • -i -i • 7 m i i ossei mus- metacarpal bones, are seven m number. Two muscles occupy each cleS) space, except in the first where there is only one ; they arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first phalanx of the fingers. They are divided into palmar and dorsal interossei but divided into all the small muscles are evident in the palm of the hand, though anddorsal some project more than the others. The palmar muscles (fig. 85), three in number, are smaller than Number and the dorsal set, and are most prominent in the palm of the hand, palmar. They arise from the palmar surface of the metacarpal bones of the fingers on which they act, viz., those of the fore, ring, and little fingers ; and they are inserted into the ulnar side of the fore, and the radial side of the other two digits. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 82, b) :— Common in- the fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the first j^hTete. or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the bone. The dorsal interossei (fig. 86) extend farther back than the palmar Dorsal set. set, and arise by two heads from the lateral surfaces of the meta- Origin.