549 RECTO-VESICAL FASCIA. strate those sheaths one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the fascia ; and the tubes are to be isolated from the viscera. The recto-vesical fascia supports and partly invests the viscera of ^'tt^"vif'tsi the pelvis. Covering the pelvic surface of the levator ani it is fixed above, like that muscle, to the wall of the pelvis in front and behind, and between those attachments it joins the pelvic fascia. Below it meets the fascia of the opposite side, in the centre of the pelvis, and forms a partition across the cavity, like that of the leva- forms the tores ani, which is perforated by the bladder and the rectum. The the pelvis partition is supported anteriorly by being fixed to the pubes, and posteriorly, where it blends with the fascia on the coccygeus, by being inserted into the coccyx : it is concave above and convex septum, below, and divides the cavity of the pelvis from the perineal space. This septum is attached to the viscera which pierce it, forming and use; ligaments for them : and from the under surface tubes are prolonged prolonga- tions are on the rectum and the prostate. The sheath on. the rectum incloses the lower three inches of the sheath on intestine, and gradually becomes very thin towards the anus ; be- ' tween it and the intestine are interposed the branches of the upper hemorrhoidal vessels with a layer of fat. On the prostate the sheath is thinner than on the rectum, and not and on loose ; and is continued forwards to the apex of that body, where it blends with the triangular ligament of the urethra : it is separated from the capsule of the prostate by a plexus of veins, and by some small arteries. In the female the fascia has much the same arrangement as in the ^ascj5a male ; but the vagina perforates the membrane, and receives a tube from it, like the prostate. The true ligaments of the bladder are two on each side, anterior Ligaments and lateral, and are portions of the recto-vesical fascia. The anterior reaches from the back of the pubes to the upper form the surface of the prostate, and the neck of the bladder; it is a narrow ligaments, white band, and encloses some muscular fibres of the bladder. Be- tween the ligaments of opposite sides, the recto-vesical fascia descends to reach the triangular ligament of the perineum, and closes the pelvis between the levatores ani. The lateral ligament is a side piece of the fascia, which is fixed and lateral to the upper border of the prostate gland, to the side of the bladder bladder', close above the vesicula seminalis, and to the back of the bladder between the vesicular ; from it an offset is continued downwards over the vesicula seminalis, so as to join a like piece from the other side, and form a sheath for those bodies. There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), which jj^JJ^j-j?" are derived from the peritoneum investing it, and will be described bladder, in the following Section. Ligament of the rectum. On each side of the rectum is a strong Ligament of wide piece of the recto-vesical fascia, which is connected externally rectum- to the ischial spine of the hip bone, and supports that viscus like the bladder.