560 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. resembles that of the male. Differences in the two sexes. Course of ureter. Urethra : length and form; connections with parts around. Its position and connections so closely resemble those of the bladder in the male body, as to render unnecessary any further description of them (p. 552). The chief differences in the bladder of the two sexes are the following: In the female the bladder is larger than in the male, and its transverse exceeds its vertical measurement. The base is of less extent, and is in contact with the vagina and the neck of the uterus : and it does not reach below the orifice of the urethra. On the side of the viscus there is not any vas deferens ; and the pros tate does not project around the neck. The ureter has a longer course in the female than the male pelvis before it reaches the bladder. After crossing the internal iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of the uterus ere it arrives at its destination. The urethra (fig. 173, °) is a small narrow tube about one inch and a half long, which curves slightly below the symphysis pubis, the concavity being upwards. Its situation is above the vagina, and its external opening is placed within the vulva. In its course to the surface it is embedded in the tissue of the vaginal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the perinaaum. It is surrounded by the muscular fibres of the constrictor and orbi- cularis urethras (p. 430) ; and corresponds with the two divisions (prostatic and membranous) of the male urethra. A plexus of veins surrounds the urethra as well as the vagina. Section IV. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE PELVIS. Vessels and jn the pelvis are contained the internal iliac vessels, and their the\jeivis. branches to the viscera ; the sacral plexus and its nerves ; and the sympathetic nerve. This section is to be used by the dissectors of both the male and female pelvis. Directions. The internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. But the air should be previously let out of the bladder ; and this viscus and the rectum, with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn aside from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. To dissect Dissection. The loose tissue and fat are to be removed from the ofthepelvis, trunks of the vessels, as well as from the branches of the artery that leave the pelvis, or supply the viscera ; and the obliterated cord of the hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. nerves, With the vessels are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, but these will probably not be seen ; but in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and rectum, branches of the sacral spinal nerves will veins. come into view. The veins may be removed in a general dissection, to make clean the arteries.