399 OBLIQUI AND SEMISPINALS. preceding, and is shorter than it. Arising from the neural arch of the atlas, the muscle is inserted, close to the middle line, into the inferior curved ridge of the occipital bone, and between this and the foramen magnum. This small muscle is fan-shaped, and is deeper than the rectus connec- major: it covers the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone. The two small recti muscles correspond with the inter- they are spinales between the other vertebras. interspinals. Action. Both muscles, or one, will have the same use, viz., to Use. approach the occiput to the atlas. The obliquus inferior (fig. 119,°) slants between the first two Obliquus vertebras. It arises from the spinous process of the axis, external mfenor» to the rectus major muscle, and is inserted into the tip of the united attach- transverse processes of the atlas. Action. One muscle turns the face to the same side by rotating Use of one; the atlas on the axis. If both muscles act at the same time they of both, will assist in keeping the head straight. The obliquus superior (fig. 119,D) takes origin from the upper obliquus part of the transverse process of the atlas, where the preceding suPerior» muscle terminates ; and is directed inwards to be inserted between attach- the curved lines of the occipital bone, near the mastoid process. ments > This muscle is concealed by the complexus and trachelo-mas- connec- toideus, and crosses the vertebral artery. Its insertion is beneath tlons* the splenius (e), but above the rectus major muscle. Action. With its fellow the upper oblique will assist in carrying Use of both; backwards the head. By the action of one muscle the occiput will of one be inclined backwards to the same side. The semispinals (fig. 119G) occupies the vertebral groove in ^a^ed^8 the dorsal and cervical regions, and extends from the transverse into and articular processes to the spines of the vertebras : it is undivided at the outer, but bifurcated at the inner attachment. It arises externally from the transverse processes of the ten upper dorsal vertebras, and from the articular processes of the four lower cervical; and it is inserted by two pieces, as below :— The lower piece, semispinalis dorsi, is inserted into the spinous ifsn^10rs}na" processes of the upper four dorsal and the last two cervical and vertebras. The upper piece, semispinalis colli, is inserted into the spines of ifs™0"iuma" the cervical vertebras above the attachment of the semispinalis dorsi, the atlas not receiving any slip. The semispinalis muscle is covered by the complexus, and the Sons?0" deep cervical vessels. Some of the cervical nerves are superficial, and others beneath it. To its inner side is the multifidus spinas muscle. Action. The muscles of both sides acting together will extend the Useof both spine. One muscle will rotate the cervical and dorsal parts of the muscle, spine, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. * The interspinal muscles are placed, as their name expresses : muscles11*1 they are arranged in pairs, one on each side of the interspinous iu Pairs- ligament ; and they are best seen in the neck and loins.