513 VESSELS AND DUCT OF LIVER. division is repeated again and again until the last branches of the vein (interlobular, fig. 158, b) penetrate between the lobules ; there they unite, and end in the interior as before explained. In the portal canals the offsets of the vena portce are joined by small vaginal and surface veins, which convey blood from branches of the hepatic artery. The hepatic artery (fig. 159, c), whilst surrounded by the capsule, furnishes vaginal branches, which ramify in the sheath, giving it a red appearance in a well-injected liver; and supply twigs to the coats of the vena porta3 and biliary ducts, and to the areolar Fig. 159."* tissue: from the vaginal branches a few offsets (capsular) are given to the coat of the liver. Finally the artery ends in fine interlo- bular branches, from which off- sets enter the lobule, and convey blood into the network between the branches of the vena porta? and hepatic vein (Chrzonszczew- sky). The hepatic vein (venae cavae hepaticae) begins by a plexus in the interior of each lobule (fig. 158, d), and its smallest radicle issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein ; these are received into the sublobular branches, which anastomose together, and unite into larger vessels. Finally, uniting with neighbouring branches to produce larger trunks, the hepatic veins are directed from before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The venae cavae hepaticae may be said to be without a sheath, except in the larger trunks: so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent, in conse- quence of their close connection with the liver structure. Hepatic duct (fig. 158, e). The duct commences in the biliary plexus within the lobules.' On leaving the lobules the radicles communicate by the interlobular branches (/) ; and the smaller ducts soon unite into larger vaginal branches (d), which lie in the portal canals with the other vessels. Lastly, the ducts are collected into aright and a left trunk (fig. 156, e), and leave the liver at the transverse fissure.f and supplies ranches : receives vaginal branches. Hepatic artery nourishes the vessels, and joins vena portce: begin in the lobules, and end in the vena cava. Bile duct, beginning, branches. * Vessels in a portal canal, and the lobules of the liver (Kiernan). I. Lobules of the liver, p. Branch of the vena portse, with a, a, vaginal branches which supply interlobular offsets, c. Hepatic artery, d. Hepatic duct. i, i. Openings of the interlobular branches of the portal vein. + Aberrant ducts exist between the pieces of the peritoneum in the left lateral ligament of the liver, and in the pons bridging over the vena portse and vena cava ; they anatomose together, and are accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz., vena portse, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. L L