271 NERVES OF THE ARM. destination is to the palm of the hand ; and it accompanies the brachial artery to the forearm. Beginning on the outer side of the artery, the nerve crosses over or under it about the middle of the arm, and is placed on the inner side a little above the elbow. It ^ does not give any branch in the arm ; but there may be a fasciculus branch, connecting it with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its connections with muscles are the same as those of the artery. The ulnar nerve (4), derived from the inner cord of the brachial ulnar 11 plexus, ends at the inner side of the hand. In the arm the nerve Fig. 78.* lies at first close to the inner side of the axillary, and then of the brachial arter}^ as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; leaving now the blood-vessel, it is directed inwards through the inner intermuscular septum to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, being surrounded by the muscular fibres of 1^^°^ the triceps. There is not any branch from the nerve till it reaches far as the the elbow joint. The internal cutaneous (2) is a tegumentary nerve of the forearm, Internal to which it is prolonged like the others. Arising from the inner ^ervebe^ cord of the plexus, it is at first superficial to the humeral artery as the far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia and reach the forearm (p. 266). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset to the integu- ments of the arm. The small internal cutaneous nerve (3 nerve of Wrisberg) arises Nerve of with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillary vein, it is partly & directed inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and * Muscles, and deep vessels and nerves of the arm. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) Muscles: A. Pectoralis major, b. Biceps, c. Coraco-brachialis. D. and e. Latissimus and teres, f. Long head of the triceps, g. Inner head of triceps, h. Brachialis anticus. Nerves : 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Nerve of Wrisberg. 4. Ulnar. 5. Muscular to the triceps ; and 6, internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral.