LUMBAR ARTERIES AND VEINS. 543 A branch to the femoral artery, whose place of origin varies much, to femoral is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. /. The obturator nerve (n) appertains to the adductor muscles of Pb^ator the thigh (p. 633). Derived from the third and fourth nerves in abdomen; the plexus, it is directed beneath the psoas to the inner border ; escaped from beneath the muscle the nerve crosses the pelvis below the external iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters the ends in the thigh through the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen. thlgh' Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch:— The accessory obturator nerve (I) arises from the trunk of the its accessory obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its . supplies course is along the inner border of the psoas beneath the investing hip joint, fascia, and over the hip bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip joint. Gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The lumbar part of the Sympa- .-i i thetic cord gangliated cord of the sympathetic m the abdomen is placed on the in the side of the spinal column (fig. 170) ; it lies along the inner border aMomen of the psoas muscle, nearer the front of the vertebras than in the inthorax• thorax, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena ■cava. The cord possesses four or five oblong ganglia opposite the has four or bodies of the vertebra?, which supply connecting and visceral ftve ganglia' branches. Connecting branches. From each ganglion two small branches are "branches to directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, nerves^1 with the lumbar artery ; these unite with one or two spinal nerves near the intervertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long- in the lumbar region in consequence of the gangliated cord being raised by the psoas muscle nearer the front of the vertebras. Branches of distribution. Most of the internal branches throw and supples themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebras and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 170 e). The anterior primary branch of the Last dorsal last dorsal resembles the intercostal nerves in its distribution, but1161 ve' differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumborum, and beneath the fascia cover- ing that muscle, as far as the aponeurosis of the transversalis ab- course in dominis (fascia lumborum) ; here it enters the wall of the abdomen, abdomen, and ends in an abdominal and a cutaneous branch (p. 450). The lowest intercostal artery accompanies it. Near the spine it furnishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle; JjJ^jJjto and it may communicate by means of this with the first lumbar nerve. The lumbar arteries of the aorta (p. 533), are furnished to the Lumbar Back, the spinal canal, and the Avail of the abdomen : they resemble fiveinnuni- the aortic intercostals in their course and distribution. Commonly J^0.11 each four in number on each side, they arise opposite the centre of the lumbar vertebras, and the vessels of opposite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk ; they then pass backwards beneath the course: