OF URETHRA. CONNECTIONS 555 concavity to the pubes. Thence to its termination the urethra is applied to the penis ; and whilst this body remains pendent the canal forms a second bend with the concavity downwards, but if the penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,—prostatic, membranous, and spongy. its division. The prostatic part (b) is contained in the prostate gland, and Prostatic, receives its name from that circumstance. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture of the body it is inclined downwards to the triangular perinatal ligament. Its con- nections are the same as those of the gland (p. 553). The membranous part (c), about three quarters of an inch long, Membra- intervenes between the apex of the prostate and the front of the noub * perinatal triangular ligament. It slants downwards in the erect posture to the fore part of the triangular ligament; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under surface measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament (n). Surrounding it are the muscular connec- fibres of the constrictor urethras ; and close below it are Cowper's tl0US" glands with the rectum. The spongy part (d) is so named from its being surrounded by a Spongy, cellulo-yascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is covered for two inches by the ejaculator uringe muscle (fig. 130). The curve of the urethra is the fixed bend at the inner extremity, Fixed curve which lies below the pubes. It extends from the bladder to an 0 1116 ra" inch and a half in front of the triangular ligament, and consists of extent, the prostatic and membranous portions, with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned downwards, is greatest at the where front of the triangular ligament in the erect posture of the body: greatest, and from this point it curves up and back to the bladder, and up anteriorly to the penis. It is surrounded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres : Voluntary thus, behind the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of i^tary°" the prostate ; within the ligament by the voluntary constrictor ^^J^sur" urethra?, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle ; and before the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urinae. Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perinatal liga- Size, ment (?z), and lies between the layers ; and is largest in the middle of the prostate. Dissection. The tegumentary covering of the penis may be re- Dissection, moved, to see the components of that body ; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The teguments should be replaced after the penis has been learnt. The penis is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and hangs Consti- in front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous ^atian of bodies (fig. 172, e) named corpora cavernosa, which are filled with the penis: