TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. 357 the right side of the heart, and pass downwards before and behind anterior the right branch of the pulmonary artery: those in front running pi^xus^ on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to end in the anterior coro- nary plexus (p. 337) ; and the nerves behind supply the right auricle of the heart. Offsets are sent laterally on the branch of the artery A few go to ■ ii i n ,1 i * root of lung, to the root of the lung. The left half of the plexus lies close to the ligamentum arteriosum, Left part: and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cardiac entering it: nerves of the sympathetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest; and numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it to the heart around the left branch and offsets end the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and after supplying branches to Lnaryf plexus, the left auricle, terminate in the posterior coronary plexus (p. 337). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the liga- mentum ductus arteriosi to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some and in root nerves reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus by coursing along the of lung" branch of the pulmonary artery. Termination of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve of 9.ther car" the neck (p. 115). dlaC~ On the right side there are usually only two cardiac nerves enter- Two right ing the thorax, for the highest nerve is blended commonly with one p^Lf6^ of the others. The middle and inferior nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus : they com- municate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the ^.^J^ aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a superficial; branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nerve, ^e^piexus the lower cardiac, may be seen entering the left side of the deep plexus, as the middle one oftentimes blends with it. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. Dissection. To see the pieces of the air tube in the root of the ^° ^L^and lung, it will be necessary to remove the pulmonary artery with its its divisions, branches, and the pulmonary veins. And when the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the fibrous tissue from the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. The trachea, or the air tube, reaches from the larynx to the Trachea lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins opposite the fifth cervical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the ends in fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi) one for each lung. Its point of splitting may be a vertebra lower. Its connections in the neck are described in p. 120, and its structure in the neck, in p. 167. The tube in the thorax remains to be studied.