207 INNER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. The occipital lobule (25) is triangular in shape, with the base Occipital upwards at the margin of the hemisphere. Measuring about an lobule- inch and a half in depth, it lies between the internal parietoocci- pital fissure, PO, and the calcarine sulcus (/). Sulci running from apex to base divide it into four or five narrow convolutions. Internal perpendicular or parieto-occipital fissure (PO, fig. 62) inner separates the two preceding lobules. Continuous with the external o^ipital fissure of the same name, it opens below into the following. nssure. The calcarine sulcus Z, (Huxley) is directed across the back of Calcarine the hemisphere below the level of the corpus callosum, and ends sulcus- in front at the gyrus fornicatus (18), whose hinder limit it marks. Fig. 62 * poro-splie- noidal con- volutions : uncinate: It receives above the internal perpendicular fissure ; and it sinks into the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, forming the eminence of the hippocampus minor. Internal temporo-sphenoidal convolutions (fig. 62) are two in Two tem- number, viz., the uncinate and dentate, and occupy the tentorial surface of the hemisphere. The uncinate or hippocampal convolution (19), is prolonged from ths posterior end of the hemisphere nearly to the tip of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. It is somewhat narrowed in the middle, where the gyrus fornicatus blends with it; and is enlarged at each end, especially at the posterior where it is subdivided by sulci. Below it is a long curved sulcus, the collateral (n) ; and above it are the calcarine (/), and the dentate sulcus (m). From the anterior extremity a narrow piece (19, uncus) is prolonged back for half an inch on the inner side, like a hook. Below the uncinate convolution is part of the inferior temporo- sphenoidal convolution (9), before described, which forms the lower * Convolutions and sulci on the inner face of the hemisphere.—P.O. In- ternal parieto-occipital fissure. Cal, Corpus callosum, cut. i, calloso-marginal sulcus ; I, calcarine sulcus ; m, dentate sulcus ; n, collateral sulcus ; 17, mar- ginal gyrus; 18, convolution of corpus callosum ; 18', quadrilateral lobule ; 19, uncinate gyrus ; 19', crochet or hook of the uncinate gyrus ; 25, occipital lobule ; 9, inferior temporo-sphenoidal gyrus partly seen.