455 INGUINAL HERNIA. As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral offsets, which andanasto- supply the neighbouring muscles, and communicate on the one side motlc* with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two col- Circumflex lateral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an inch vem' above Poupart;s ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. The lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved ^Jjnal on the left side of the body, should be now dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The teguments and the aponeurosis of the external The dissec- oblique having been thrown down in the previous examination of ingrain.6 the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 138. To raise the oblique muscle, let one incision be made across the Peflect inner fleshy fibres from the iliac crest towards the linea alba : and after oblique. the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By elevating the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis, so that it may be turned upwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is sometimes difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended together, but a branch of the circumflex iliac artery marks their intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut th<i • -r it i n cremaster. to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched ^f^^^-g border ; and trace with care the conjoined tendon of it and the internal oblique to show the exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should be likewise nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval apparent below the border of the trans- sh°w *h.e t i • • • i epigastric versalis muscle, are the epigastric vessels, which lie close to the vessels, inner side of the internal abdominal opening, but beneath the fascia transversalis. A small piece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine through the lower Situation of p ,i -i -i • i -n -r^, _ _. . . mgumal portion of the abdominal wall near Poupart s ligament (answering hernia, to the inguinal region), is named an inguinal hernia. The escape Predis- of the intestine in this region is predisposed to by the deficiencies naturally, in the muscular strata, by the passage of the spermatic cord through the abdominal parietes, and by the existence of fosses on the inner surface of the wall.