INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 561 When the vessels are prepared the bladder may be again dis- tended, and the viscera replaced. The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 174, g) is (Hie of the trunks Internal resulting from the division of the common iliac artery, and furnishes lliac arteiy» branches to the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the generative and genital organs, and to the limb. In the adult the vessel is a short trunk of large capacity, which size and measures about an inch and a half in length. Directed downwards lenSth > as far as the sacro-sciatic notch, the artery terminates generally in termination; two large pieces, from which the several offsets are furnished. From the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends for- wards on the bladder. In entering the pelvis the artery lies in front of the lumbo-sacral connections, nerve. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, which is pos- position of terior to it, and somewhat external on the right side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the Brandies, following manner :—From the posterior piece of the trunk three arise, viz., the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. And from the anterior portion come the vesical (upper and lower), hemor- rhoidal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic : in the female there are in addition the uterine and vaginal branches. Artery in the foetus. In the foetus the hypogastric artery takes the Hypogastric place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus, fitus,m the At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery ; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the back of the bladder, and along the side of that viscus to the on the apex. bladder' Beyond the bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally at the umbilicus, the vessels of opposite sides come in con- and beyond tact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, and receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, branches similar to those in the adult are furnished branches, by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. Change to adult state. "When uterine life has ceased the hypo- Transforma- gastric artery diminishes in consequence of the arrest of the current JjJjJJ of^the of blood through it, and finally becomes obliterated, more or less adult, completely, as far back as an inch and a half of its commencement. The part o'f the trunk which is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the top of the bladder, and gives origin to some vesical arteries. Peculiarities. The length of the internal iliac artery varies from half an Trunk varies inch to three inches, its extreme measurements ; but in two thirds of a certain in length, number of bodies (Quain) it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half. Size. When the femoral trunk is derived from the internal iliac, and is Size, placed at the back of the thigh, the parent vessel is larger than the external iliac.