276 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. Use. Action. It is said to raise the synovial membrane in extension of the joint. Directions. Directions. As the dissection of the arm has been completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to keep moist the shoulder joint until it is examined with the other ligaments. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position of the limb. Surface of the forearm, Bony pro' jections. Line of the wrist joint. Surface of Position. The limb is to be placed with the palm of the hand uppermost ; and the marking of the surface, and the projections of bone, are first to be noted. Surface-marking. On the anterior aspect of the forearm are two lateral depressions, corresponding with the position of the main vessels. The external is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal groove is evident only beyond the middle of the forearm, and points out the place of the ulnar artery. The bones (radius and ulna) are sufficiently near the surface to be traced in their whole length : each ends below in a point,—the styloid process ; and that of the radius is the lowest. A transverse line separates the forearm from the hand, and the articulation of the wrist is about an inch above it. On each side of the palm of the hand is a large projection ; the hand°fthe ex"ternal of these (thenar) is formed by muscles of the thumb, and the internal (hypo-thenar) by muscles of the little finger. Between the projections is the hollow of the palm, which is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it: the anterior one will direct to the line of the articulations between the metacarpus and the phalanges, but is about a quarter of an inch behind the three inner joints when the fingers are extended. Position of The superficial palmar arch of arteries reaches forwards a little palmar arch. .nto ^ k0v}ow 0f the hand, and its position may be marked by a line across the palm from the root of the thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Transverse lines are seen on both aspects of the joints of the thumb and fingers. The lines on the palmar surface of the fingers may be used to detect the articulations of the phalanges. Thus the joint between the metacarpal phalanx and the next will be found Lines on the about a line in front of the chief transverse groove ; whilst the arti- front. culation between the last two phalanges is situate about a line in front of the single mark. Dissection. With the limb lying flat on the table, an incision is to be carried through the skin along the middle of the front of the forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist ; and at its termination a transverse one is to cross it. The skin is to be reflected carefully Surface of the fingers. Dissection to remove the skin.