141 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. the surface of the temporal bone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii: its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that nerve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose will be found entering Seek the outer surface of the detached mucous membrane opposite the ti^nosT ^° spheno-palatine foramen, with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), dissected before in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. The branches of the internal maxillary Arteries, artery with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. The SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION (fig. 34, 7, ganglion of Meckel) Ganglion of occupies the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine Meckel- foramen, and is connected with the branches of the superior max- illary nerve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat tri- angular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate, for situation the most part, behind the branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior ^hec" maxillary nerve to the palate, so as to surround only some of their fifth nerve, fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into the vidian nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles the other ganglia in connection with the fifth nerve in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic offsets or roots composi- connected with it. tlon- The Branches of the ganglion are distributed chiefly to the nose Branches, and palate, but small offsets are given to the pharynx and the orbit. Other offsets connect it with surrounding nerves. Branches of the nose. The nasal branches, from three to five in ^asai number, are very small and soft, and pass inwards, through the branches spheno-palatine foramen ; they are distributed in the nose and the roof of the mouth. The superior nasal branches (f f) ramify in the mucous mem- Superior brane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments reach nasa1' the back part of the septum nasi. The naso-palatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius, fig. 33, 3) crosses Naso-paia- the roof of the nasal fossa to reach the septum nasi, and descends tme- on that partition to near the front. In the floor of the nose it enters a special canal by the side of the septum, the left being anterior to the other, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are distributed in the mucous mem- brane behind the incisor teeth, and communicate with one another. On the septum nasi filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth must be opened. Branches of the palate. The nerves of the palate, though To the connected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continuation palate' of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 101). Below the ganglion they are divided into three-—large, are three, small, and external. The large palatine nerve (anterior, fig. 34,9) reaches the roof of Large nerve the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and courses forwards to nose-ClieS nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve.