70 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Vertebral artery in the neck. Small ■branches. Vertebral vein, and "branches. Internal mammary artery in the neck. Thyroid axis divides into three. Supra- scapular "branch. Transverse cervical branch. Offsets. Size and ending vary, Inferior thyroid branch The vertebral artery is generally the first and largest branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and posterior part. Ascending between the contiguous borders of the scalenus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the aperture in the lateral mass of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to- the skull through the foramina in the other cervical vertebrae. Before the artery enters its aperture it is partly concealed by the internal jugular vein, and passes beneath the thyroid artery ; it is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies; small muscular offsets. Its course and distribution will be given; afterwards. The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to which it is superficial in the neck, and is directed over the subclavian artery to join the subclavian vein ; it receives the deep cervical vein and the branch that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. The internal mammary branch leaves the lower part of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, sub- clavius, and the right innominate vein, enters the thorax between the first rib and the bag of the pleura. As the artery disappears-, in the chest, it is crossed (superficially) by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be learnt with the dissection of those parts. Thyroid axis. This is a short thick trunk (fig. 16) which arisen from the front of the artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches—one to the thyroid body, and two over the scapula. The suprascapular branch courses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, to the superior costa of the scapula ; and entering the supraspinal fossa is; distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this, artery are more fully seen in the dissection of the Back (p. 387). The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the preceding,, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends, beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. (" Dissection of the Back.") In its course outwards through the space containing the third part of the subclavian artery, this branch crosses the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus. Some small offsets are- supplied by it to the posterior triangular space of the neck. Though the transverse cervical artery supplies ordinarily the posterior scapular branch, there are many bodies in which it is too- small to give origin to so large an offset. In such instances the diminished artery ends in the trapezius muscle ; whilst the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the subclavian artery (fig. 16). The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid axis. Directed inwards with a flexuous course to the thyroid body,, the branch passes beneath the common carotid artery and the- accompanying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle and the recurrent nerve. At the lower part of the thyroid