197 FIBRES OF THE PONS. this last set of longitudinal fibres is the fillet of the corpus olivare, which the dissector should trace upwards from that body. The superficial fibres of the pons can be seen on the side that is untouched. The transverse fibres of the annular protuberance (fis;. 56), are Tlie trans* • n ■ r • i • • verse fibres collected chiefly into two strata—a superficial and deep, which unite form a with their fellows in the middle line : they are commissural fibres of the cerebellum, and are derived from the crus or middle peduncle of that body. There are a few other transverse, which serve also as a commissure. The superficial set (fig. 56,/) are mostly horizontal, but some superficial from the upper margin of the pons descend obliquely over the others. The deep layer (fig. 57, /) is thickest, and contains much gray and a deep matter between its fibres. The longitudinal fibres consist of two sets, viz. one from the Two sets of anterior pyramidal body; and the other from the lateral tract and ^fes^ 11 the posterior pyramid, to which a slip is added from the corpus olivare. The fibres are not continued simply through the pons, but are increased in number by the addition of others (peduncular) which, beginning in the upper two thirds of the pons, join them on the outer side. The fibres of the anterior pyramid (fig. 56, c) pass through the From pons between the two sets of transverse fibres, but not as one mass, pyramid; for they are divided into a number of small bundles in their pro- gress. Much increased in number, the fibres enter the crus cerebri at the upper border of the pons, and construct that fasciculated surface of the peduncle (d), which is now uppermost. The fibres of the lateral column and posterior pyramid are alto- ^^^rax gether deeper than the transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 57, d), and posterior are mixed up with gray matter; they are also more numerous than pyramid, the preceding set. They project close to the middle line, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and form the eminence of the fasciculus teres (fig. 55,2) ; from that spot they are continued upwards to the crus cerebri, of which they form the deeper or cerebral part (fig. 57, cl). In the pons a band from the olivary fasciculus is added to these fibres. The olivary fasciculus (fillet, fig. 57) divides into two slips in the ^om olivary pons. One passes backwards to the upper (in this position deeper) part of the crus cerebri, and ends in and beneath the corpora quad- rigemina (p. 219, fig. 65, 4). The other is continued to the crus cerebri with the fibres of the lateral column. Commissure of the pons. At the back of the pons there is a com- Qf01™sssure missure between the halves, opposite the deep longitudinal fibres. It consists, like that of the medulla oblongata, of fine antero-posterior and transverse fibres.