MEMBRANES OF BRAIN. 179 the cerebrum there is a large space between it and the centre of the hollow be- brain. Still more posteriorly, between the hemispheres of the little neath brain, there is an interval, similar to that at the under surface of gp01tess.at the cerebrum. The subarachnoid space or the interval between the arachnoid arachnid*13" membrane and the pia mater, is larger in one spot than another ; space, and it contains more or less fluid, which has been named cerebro- spinal. The space is largest at the under surface of the great brain, about its middle, and in the fissure between the hemispheres of it and the cerebellum. Under the arachnoid, at the front of the fissure which opens between the halves of the cerebellum, is the aperture of the fourth mto bram- ventricle, by which that cavity communicates with the subarachnoid space. The pia mater closely invests the brain, and dips into the fissures, Pia ma as well as into the sulci between the convolutions and laminae. Besides covering the exterior of the brain, it sends processes into sends pieces the interior to supply vessels to the walls of the enclosed space : ^^nthe thus, one penetrates into the cerebrum below the corpus callosum, and is named velum interpositum ; and two vascular fringes, which project into the fourth ventricle, are known as the choroid plexuses of that cavity. This membrane is a network of vessels, and is constructed of it is^a net- the minute ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into, or -blood- issuing from the cerebral substance ; whilst the intervals between vessels- the vessels are closed by fine areolar tissue, so as to form a con- tinuous thin layer. From the under surface of the membrane proceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. i and nerves. The arachnoid membrane has but few vessels, Vessels and whilst the pia mater is composed almost entirely of vessels. The membranes, pia mater is largely supplied by offsets of some cranial nerves, and by branches of the sympathetic which acccompany the vessels at the base of the brain (p. 20). Bochdalek has described branches to the arachnoid from some cranial nerves. Subdivisions of the encephalon. Before the description of the arteries is given, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon may be shortly noticed. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system (fig. 59) of consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, mass, pons, and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the follow- ing situation and subdivisions :— The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal cord (fig. Upper part 59, a), lies in the groove between the halves of the small brain, cord11™1 and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii (fig. 59, d) is situate in front of the medulla Pons Varolii oblongata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates its separation into halves. Anterior to it are two large and its processes (crura cerebri,/) connecting it to the great brain; on each erura- side it is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelli) ; and behind it is the enlarged upper end of the cord. N 2