575 INTERIOR OF URETHRAL CANAL. About an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra, and openings of rather more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openings tlie ureters- of the ureters (fig. 179). These excretory tubes for the urine per- forate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of one third of an inch, so that the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended. Each terminates by a slit-like opening in a prominence of the subjacent muscular fibres. Triangular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the urethra Trigone of is a smooth triangular surface, which is named trigone (trigonum the bladder vesicse, fig. 179). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaries may be marked out by a line on each side how from the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one, behind, 1)01111(16(1 * between the openings of the ureters. This surface corresponds with Part corre-- the triangular space externally at the base of the bladder, between externally, the prostate in front and the vesiculse and vasa deferentia on the sides. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occurring in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The arrangement of the fleshy fibres of the ureters To expose will come into view on the removal of the mucous membrane from ureters? °* the lower third of the bladder. Ending of the fibres of the ureter. As soon as the ureter pierces Muscular the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are Ureter? thus disposed :—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube ; whilst the remainder are continued down over the triangular surface, and blend with the submucous layer. Bloodvessels and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries, and Arteries; the termination of the veins have been detailed (p. 563). The veins; vessels are disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though nerves of supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 568), are tlle bladder* derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymphatics enter the Lymphatics, glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 179). The tube of the urethra extends from the Urethra: neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an average length -mcl length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life (Thompson). It is supported by the prostate, the triangular no special ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is coat- divided, as before said (p. 555), into a prostatic, a membranous, and Jit™ parts a spongy part. Dissection. To open the urethra, let the incision through the prostate How to be continued onwards to the extremity of the penis along the line u^g"h^ie of union of the urethral canal with that body. The prostatic part (fig. 179) is nearer the upper than the lower Prostatic surface of the muscular mass surrounding it. It is one inch and a part: