632 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Use on femur free and fixed. Adductor longus ex- tends from pelvis to femur. Its connec- tions with1 muscles and Use on femur, on pelvis. Dissection of accessory- obturator nerve: cut adduc- tor longus, adductor brevis : trace obturator nerve; and nerve to knee joint. Accessory obturator nerve. A ction. It adducts the limb and bends the hip joint. When the femur is fixed it can support the pelvis in standing ; or it can draw forwards the pelvis in stooping. The adductor longus lies below the pectineus (fig. 194, G), and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the front of the pubes below the angle of union of the crest and the symphysis ; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pectineus, and forms part of Scarpa's triangular space. Its anterior surface is covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sartorius : the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on part of the obtu- rator nerve, and on the deep femoral artery. Aponeurotic bands connect the tendon of insertion with the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Action. With the femur moveable, it will flex the hip-joint, and with the aid of the other adductors will carry inwards the limb, so as to cross the thigh bones. In walking it helps the other adductors to project the limb. With the femur fixed, the muscle props and tilts forwards the pelvis. Dissection. The adductor brevis muscle, with the obturator nerve and the profunda vessels, will be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the pectineus near the pubes, and throwing it down, the dissector may find occasionally the small accessory nerve of the obturator which turns beneath the outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longus is then to be divided near its origin, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nerve beneath : its tendon is to be detached from that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the branches of the profunda artery. Now the adductor brevis will be laid bare. A part of the obtu- rator nerve crosses over this muscle to the femoral artery, and sends an offset to the plexus at the inner side of the thigh : a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath this adductor. The muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus, where the lower branch of the nerve with an artery issues. In this last step of the dissection the student should follow on and in the fibres of the ad- ductor magnus a slender articular branch of the obturator nerve ; this will be traced after to the knee (p. 655). The accessory obturator nerve * (Schmidt) is derived from the trunk of the obturator, near the lumbar plexus (p. 543), and passes from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh it turns beneath the pectineus, and joins the superficial branch of the obturator nerve ; it supplies an offset to the hip joint with the * This small nerve is often absent; it was found only four or five times in nine or ten bodies which were examined by its discoverer. The name given to it by Schmidt refers to this irregularity, viz., nerv. ad obturatorem ac- cessorius inconstans. Commentarius de Nervis Lumbalibus.