DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 538 Connections in front, "behind. Of outer border, of inner border, along pelvis. Use to bend the lap- joint with iliacus, or to bend trunk on the limb. Psoas parvus; Insertion; often absent. Use on spine and pelvis. Iliacus has the form of the iliac fossa : insertion. Parts cover- ing it on opposite sides. Beneath it. Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The abdominal part of the muscle has the following' connections : —In front are the internal arch of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and, near Pouparts's ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery. Posteriorly the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with the quadratus lumborum, and with the innominate bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and iliacus ; and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to the vertebrae, and is partly free along the margin of the -pelvis :—along the attached part of this border lies the sympathetic nerve, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side ; aloug the free or pelvic part are the external iliac artery and vein. Action. If the femur is free to move it is raised towards the belly ; and as the flexion proceeds, the limb is rotated out by the attach- ment of the muscle to the trochanter minor. The psoas is always combined with the iliacus in flexion of the hip-joint. When the lower limbs are fixed the two muscles will draw down the lumbar part of the spine, and bend the hip-joints, as in stooping to the ground. One muscle under the same circumstances can incline the spine laterally. The psoas parvus (fig. 169, E) is a small muscle with a long and flat tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas, but is rarely present. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, with the intervening fibro-cartilage. Its tendon becomes broader inferiorly, and is inserted into the ilio- pectineal eminence and the brim of the pelvis, joining the fascia over the iliacus muscle. Action. If the spine is immoveable the two muscles will make tense the pelvic fascia. The pelvis being fixed they may assist in bending the lumbar region of the spinal column. The iliacus muscle (fig. 169, H) occupies the iliac fossa on the inner aspect of the hip-bone, and is blended inferiorly with the psoas. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy origin from the iliac fossa and the ilio-lumbar ligament, from the base of the sacrum, and from the capsule of the hip-joint in front. The fibres pass inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the femur, but some reach separately the femur near the small trochanter. Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia ; but over the right iliacus is placed the caecum, and over the left, the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are the innominate bone and the capsule of the hip-joint ; and between it and the grooved anterior margin of the bone, above the joint, is a bursa. The inner margin is in contact with the psoas and the anterior crural nerve. The con- nections of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the dissection of the thigh (p. 636).