77 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. eating branches of the cervical nerves. After the union of the wjth cervi- spinal nerves, offsets are supplied to the depressor muscles of the os cal nervesJ hyoides, viz., omo-hyoid (both bellies), sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid : sometimes another offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The connection between the descendens noni and the spinal by fibrils, nerves is formed by two or more cross filaments, so as to construct an arch with the concavity upwards ; and an interchange of fibrils between the two nerves is supposed to take place. The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 17, d) Springs from the bi- External furcation of the common carotid at the upper border of the thyroid vessel, cartilage, and furnishes branches to the neck, the face, and the outer part of the head. From the place of origin it ascends in front of the mastoid pro- Extent, cess, and ends near the condyle of the jaw in the internal maxillary and temporal branches. The artery lies at first to the inner side of Course and the internal carotid, but it afterwards becomes superficial to that directl0n- vessel; and its direction is somewhat arched forwards, though the position would be marked sufficiently by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is overlaid by the sterno-mastoideus, parts super- and by the common coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz. ficial to ltj the skin, and the superficial and deep fasciae with the platysma. But above the level of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and higher still it is concealed by the parotid gland. At its beginning the artery rests against the pharynx : but above the angle of the beneath it,, jaw it is placed over the styloid process and stylo-pharyngeus muscle, which separate it from the internal carotid. To the inner side of the vessel at first is the pharynx ; and still higher, are the and on inner ramus of the jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament. side- Veins. There is not any companion vein with the external carotid, Veins in as with most arteries; but sometimes a vein, formed by the union the^artery1-^ of the temporal and internal maxillary branches (p. 29), will accom- pany it. Near the beginning it is crossed by the facial and lingual branches joining the internal jugular vein ; and near the ending the external jugular vein lies over it. Nerves are directed from behind forwards over and under the and nerves artery. At the lower border of the digastric muscle the hypo- glossal lies over the vessel, and near the ending the ramifications of the facial nerve are superficial to it. Three nerves lie beneath it:—beginning below, the small external laryngeal ; a little higher, the superior laryngeal ; and near the base of the jaw, the glosso- pharyngeal. The branches of the external carotid are numerous, and are its classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The JjJ^hes anterior set comprise branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, terior, and the face, viz., superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. In the posterior set are the occipital and posterior auricular posterior, branches. And the ascending set include the ascending pharyn- and ascend-