DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 224 Uvula, nodule, furrowed band, pyramid, and eommis- Laminse and their ar- rangement. Sulci are shallow and deep. A lamina has white inside ; collateral white fibres ; and gray outside. Seven lobes in each hemisphere. Two lobes on upper surface. from one another with the handle of the scalpel:—Most anteriorly is a narrow body, the uvula (fig. 66, c), which is named from its resemblance to the same part in the throat ; it is longer from before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminae. Its anterior projection into the fourth ventricle is named nodule, or laminated tubercle (fig. 67.) On the side of the uvula is a band of gray matter with ridges and sulci, the furrowed band (fig. 67, d)7 which unites it with the almond-like lobe of the hemisphere. Con- nected with the nodule is a thin white layer,—the medullary velum (b) ; but this, and the furrowed band will be seen in a subsequent dissection (p. 225). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named pyramid (fig. 66, d), which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by transverse laminae. Farther back are certain transverse pieces (e), extending between the posterior lobes of the hemispheres, of which they were considered by Reil to be the com- missures. Laminat. The surface of the cerebellum is covered by plates or laminae (fig. 68), instead of convolutions, which form segments of circles with their convexity directed backwards. On the upper aspect the anterior laminae pass from the one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermi- form process ; but on the under aspect they join the sides of the different commissures in the median fissure. Sulci. Between the laminae are sulci, which are lined by the pia mater, and reach to different depths: the shallower separate the laminae; but the deeper limit the lobes, and reach downwards to the white substance of the interior. Here and there the sulci are interrupted by cross laminae. Structure of the laminae. On cutting across the laminae of the upper surface on the right side they will be seen to possess a white internal, and a gray external layer (fig. 68). The white part is derived from a central medullary mass ; and dividing, like the branching of a tree, it ends in small lateral offsets which enter the subdivisions of the laminae. The white stalk of the lamina is composed mostly of fibres derived from the central mass, but there are other fibres which pass from one lamina to another beneath the sulci. The stratum of gray matter enveloping the white substance resembles the cortical covering of the convolutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, which can be dis- tinguished by a difference in their colour. The superficial stratum is clear and gray, and about equal to the other in thickness ; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generally thickest in the hollows between the laminae. Between the two a layer of ramified cells (Purkinje) may be recognised with the microscope. Lobes of the Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is subdivided into lobes on both aspects. On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval between them is not well marked. The anterior or square lobe extends back to a