ULNAR VESSELS AND NERVE. 291 The superficial transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous Ligament of band, which stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is the fingers* contained in the fold of skin, forming" the rudiment of a web be- tween them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are continued onwards to their terminations. Sheath of the flexor tendons (fig. 82). Along each finger the flexor Sheath of tendons are retained in place against the phalanges by a fibrous sheath. Opposite the middle of each of the two nearest phalanges the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band (e and /) (ligamentum vagi- nale), which is almost tendinous in consistence ; but opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered and oblique fibres. If the sheath be opened it will be seen to be lined by a synovial membrane, which forms long and slender vascular folds (vincula vasculosa) be- tween the tendons and the bones. Dissection. The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the digital sheaths opposite the joints of the fingers may be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery, and the median and ulnar nerves, become apparent. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Artery (fig. 83). In the palm of the hand the ulnar artery is directed towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two offsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c), and the branch to the radial side of the fore- finger (/). The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the super- ficial palmar arch (d).—Its convexity is turned towards the fingers, and its position in the palm would be nearly marked by a line across the hand from the cleft of the thumb. The arch is comparatively superficial; it is covered in greater part by the integuments and the palmar fascia, but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Venas comites lie on its sides. Branches. From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital Branches arteries, and from the concavity some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small branch (profunda) arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. a. The profunda or communicating branch (fig. 84, &), passes to.i°m the cleei) arch, the tendons varies m thickness. Has a syno- vial sac. Dissection. Superficial palmar arch. Position in the hand and connections. * The extensor tendon of the finger with its accessory muscles, and the sheath of the flexor tendons, a. Extensor tendon, with b, interosseous, and c, lumbricales muscles joining it. d. Flexor tendon ; e and /, thicker parts of its sheath. u 2