160 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Dissection of vocal cords, and crico- thyroid membrane. Upper ligament is a very slight fibrous band. inferior vocal cord, length, has these connections, Fiff. 42.* Vocal cords. Dissection. The general shape and position of the vocal cords are evident on the left half of the laryngeal tube, but to show more fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in contact, and detach on the right side the crico-arytasnoideus lateralis from its cartilages. Eemove in like manner the thyro-arytamoideus, raising it from before back. By the removal of the last muscle a fibrous membrane crico-thyroid (fig. 44,6) comes into view, and its upper free edge will be perceived to constitute the inferior or true vocal cord. Whilst taking away the thyro-arytamoideus, the ventricle and the sacculus laryngis, which are formed chiefly by mucous membrane, will disappear. The vocal cords or the tliyro-ary tcenoid ligamen ts, (fig. 42), are two bands on each side, which are extended from the angle of the thyroid to the arytaanoid cartilage,— one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle. The upper ligament (false vocal cord, fig. 42, °) is semi- lunar in form, and is much weaker than the other. It is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the epi- glottis ; and behind to the outer surface of the arytasnoid cartilage. This ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, which is con- tinuous with that in the arytaano-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The inferior ligament (chorda vocalis, fig. 42, B) is attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, about half way down below the notch; the ligament is directed backwards, and is in- serted into the anterior prominence at the base of the aryta?noid cartilage. It is about seven lines long in man, and two less in the woman. Internally this band is covered by thin mucous membrane, and projects towards its fellow into the cavity of the larynx,—the interval between it and the opposite one being the glottis. Ex- * Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the larynx, a. Ventricle of the larynx, b. True vocal cord. c. False vocal cord d. Sacculus laryngis. E. Arytenoid cartilage, f. Cricoid cartilage. G. Thyroid cartilage. H. Epi- glottis, k. Crico-thyroid ligament, l. Thyro-hyoid ligament.