535 ILIAC ARTERIES AND VEINS. The common iliac artery (fig. 169, g) is directed outwards from common the bifurcation of the aorta, and divides into two large trunks lliac: opposite the fihro-cartilage between the base of the sacrum and the termination last lumbar vertebra :—one of these (external iliac) supplies the lower limb, and the other (internal iliac) enters the pelvis. Placed Connec- obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes by the ureter. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio- Brandies, lumbar, or a renal artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some differences. The right artery is rather the longest, in consequence of the Difference position of the aorta on the left side of the spine. To its outer side ^th^6611 at first is the vena cava, and near its termination is the psoas muscle. The companion vein (p) is at first beneath, but becomes external to the artery at the upper part ; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the colon and left and the inferior mesenteric vessels ; and its companion vein is situate below it. The length of the common iliac ranges from less than half an Length, inch (in one case) to four inches and a half; but in the majority of instances it varies between one inch and a half and three inches (Quain). The external iliac artery (fig. 169, h) is the first part of the .^e[^s to vessel leading to the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity of lower limb: the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of the common extent and iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it becomes directlu11- femoral. And its direction would be indicated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to the middle of the space between the symphysis pubis and the front of the iliac crest. The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis in its course to Poupart's Comiecfctons ligament, and is covered closely throughout by the peritoneum and ^ound^ 5 the subperitoneal fat. To its outer side is the psoas, except at its termination under Poupart's ligament where the muscle lies beneath it. A chain of lymphatic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. Near its origin it is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; and near with other Poupart's ligament the vas deferens bends down along its inner side, vei3Selb> whilst the spermatic vessels, and part of the genito-crural nerve lie and nerve, on it for a short distance. The position of the external iliac vein (r) is not the same on both and veins, sides. The left vein is altogether internal to the artery; whilst the right, though internal in position on the pubes, afterwards lies be- neath the arterial trunk. The circumflex iliac vein crosses it nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament. Branches. Two branches, epigastric and circumflex iliac, arise about j^nclies a quarter of an inch from the end of the artery, and are distributed to the wall of the abdomen (p. 454).