229 FOURTH VENTRICLE. about half way down, the cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (Z), which projecting over it, forms part of the roof; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body (fig, 55, 3). The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed above R0of. by the valve of Vieussens (&), and the under part of the vermiform process ; and below, by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the spinal cord. The floor of the ventricle is constituted by the posterior surfaces Floor. of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish in colour. Along a^m^ian its centre is a median groove, which ends below, near the point of groove, and the calamus, in a minute hole,—the aperture of the canal of the ^!jal cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentm teres (o). This eminence reaches the Fasciculus teres whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inf eriorly, where it is covered by gray substance ; but it becomes whiter and more prominent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the lower border of the pons. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight Fovese, groove, which points out the position of two small fossae (fovea anterior et posterior). The posterior (r) is near the lower end of posterior, the groove ; and the anterior (p) is opposite the cms cerebelli. anterior. Above the anterior fossa is a deposit of very dark gray substance, Locus which has a bluish appearance as it is seen through the thin stratum C8eruleus- covering it ;* from it a bluish streak is continued upwards, at the outer edge of the eminentia teres, to the opening in the top of the fourth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the White striae, pons, are some white lines, which vary much in their arrangement (fig. 55) : they issue from the central median fissure, and enter the auditory nerve (p. 188). Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other eminences ofner^CGS in the floor of the ventricle indicating the position of the nuclei of nuclei, origin of certain nerves. In the lower half of the space are three slight eminences on each ^11f°.wer side for the hypo-glossal, vagus, and auditory nerves :—that for the hypo-glossal is close to the middle line below, and corresponds nuclei of the with the lower pointed end of the eminentia teres. The other two, lmsual> outside that eminence, are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked groove (fovea posterior) ; the lower is vagus, the nucleus of the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves, and the giosso- upper is the nucleus of the auditory nerve. Running into the lower ^ditorfTnd end of the vagus nucleus, is the nucleus of the accessory portion of accessory, the spinal accessory nerve. (See p. 189.) • In the upper half of the space some other nerves take origin in upper from nuclei, but there is only one projection. This is placed over half' the common nucleus of the sixth and the facial nerve : it is a * The term locus cseruleus has been applied to the bluish spot, and the dark vesicular matter in it has "been named substantia ferruginea.