DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 292 four digital branches : in the hand. They join offsets of the deep arch. Termination on the fingers ; offsets, and arches. Ulnar nerve in the hand, has a deep and superficial branch. Digital nerves are two. Median nerve sup- plies mus- cles and fingers. Branch to the muscles. downwards with a branch of the ulnar nerve between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery (p. 298). b. The digital branches (g) are four in number, and supply both sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger. The branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger is un- divided ; but the others, corresponding with the three inner interos- seous spaces, bifurcate anteriorly to supply the contiguous sides of the above-said digits. In the hand these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Near the root of the fingers they receive communicating branches from offsets of the deep arch ; but the digital artery of the inner side of the little finger has ats communicating branch about the middle of the palm. * From the point of bifurcation the branches extend along the sides of the fingers ; and over the last phalanx the vessels of oppo- site sides unite in an arch, from whose convexity offsets proceed to supply the ball of the finger. Collateral offsets are furnished to the finger and the sheath of the tendons ; and small twigs are supplied to the phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bones—an arch being close behind each joint. On the dor- sum of the last phalanx is another arch near the nail, from which the nail-pulp is supplied. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Nerve (fig. 83,l). The ulnar nerve divides on or near the annular ligament, into a superficial and a deep branch. The deep branch accompanies the profunda artery to the muscles, and will be subsequently dissected with that vessel (fig. 84). The superficial branch furnishes an offset to the palmaris brevis muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the inner part of the hand, and ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger, and^half the next. Digital nerves (2). The lnore^internal nerve is undivided, like the corresponding artery. The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of their opposed sides : in the palm of the hand this last branch is connected with an offset (5) of the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar Part of the Median Nerve (fig. 83, 3). As soon as the median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament it becomes enlarged and somewhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal parts for the supply of digital nerves to the thumb and the remain- ing two fingers and a half : the more external of the two por- tions furnishes a small muscular branch to the ball of the thumb. The trunk of the nerve and its branches are covered by the palmar fascia ; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The branch to muscles of the thumb (4) supplies the outer half