ANATOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. By JOHN REID, M.D. Demonstrator of Anatomy, President of the Royal Physical and Royal Medical Societies of Edinburgh, &c. (Read before the Anatomical and Physiological Society of Edinburgh.) (From the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, No. I.—Case in which accidental Cartilages were found in the interior of several of the Serous Membranes. On exposing the abdomen of one of the subjects in the Dis- secting-Rooms, we found within the cavity of the peritoneum, and lying in the upper part of the pelvis, a round cartilaginous- looking body, somewhat larger than a billiard ball, and with- out any attachment to the surrounding parts. With the ex- ception of a few depressions in its surface, it was perfectly round2 Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. and smooth. On making a section of the tumour, it was found to consist of a number of concentric lamina?, with a calca- reous deposit in the centre. It was very elastic, and the fresh section was exactly similar to the fibro-cartilage, placed between the bodies of the vertebrae^ with this difference, that the cen- tre of the intervertebral substance is soft and pulpy, wliile the centre of the tumour was occupied by the calcareous deposit.* After a careful examination of all the parts within the abdo- men, the only other morbid appearance that presented itself ■was a cartilaginous deposit on the surface of the spleen. With- in the cavities of the tunicae vnginales of this subject, who hada double hydroqele, wealsofound anumberof cartilaginous- looking bodies, the largest of which were loose and floating in the fluid contained there, while the smaller were connected to the inner surface of the tunica vaginalis by thin membranous pedicles. In making a section of the largest of these, which was oblong, and about the size of afield bean, it differed slight- ly in its structure from that found within the cavity of the pe- ritoneum, in approaching more to the nature of cartilage than to fibro-cartilage. It also contained a calcareous deposit in its centre. Several of these bodies were also found adhering to the inner surface of both pleurae by slender membranous pe- dicles. None of these cartilages presented themselves in the ar- ticulations. I may mention, though no way connected with the object of this communication, that, while taking out the brain of this subject, we observed a very distinct depression in the outer table of the frontal bone below its middle, apparently the effect of an injury. From the inner surface of the internal table, ex- actly opposite to the depression on the outer, a narrow spicula of bone about an inch in length had been thrown out. This spi- cula, in all probability, had made an opening through the mem- branes of the brain, or, at least, these had adhered so firmly to it, as to have been torn in removing the skull-cap. Upon the corresponding portion of the anterior lobe of the brain, there was a depression which might have held a hazel-nut, and which, in all probability, had been partly occupied by some serous fluid, which was observed to escape on removing the skull-cap. The surrounding portion of brain was perfectly healthy. This subject was about eighty ^ears of age, and had been for some time under Dr Smith's care in the City Charity-Work House. He died gradually exhausted from severe asthmatic attacks. • A section of this tumour, with several of the smaller cartilaginous bodies, to be described immediately, were shown at a meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh.3 Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. Dr Smith never observed him complain of any uneasiness arising from the presence of the fibro-cartilaginous body within the cavity of the peritoneum. Though he had occasional de- lirium for a few days before death, yet it was nothing more than what is frequently observed in patients, in a very exhaust- ed state, with an impeded circulation through the lungs. This loose fibro-cartilaginous body found within the abdo- men is evidently of the same origin, though differing slightly in structure from those observed within the tunicae vaginales and pleurae, and must at one time have been attached to some portion of the peritoneum. The loose cartilages within the synovial membranes of the articulations, particularly that of the knee, have attracted more or less attention since the time of Ambrose Pare, as they are often attended with very disagreeable consequences, and are the subjects of surgical operation. They have been occasion- ally seen in great numbers in the synovial membranes of the tendons; in the bursae mucosae, particularly that enveloping the flexor tendons, as they pass below the annular ligament of •the wrist; * and in the interior of serous cysts developed where they do not naturally exist, -f- In the splanchnic serous mem- branes, they have been seen most frequently in the tunicae va- ginales, and rarely within the peritoneum, pleurae, and arach- noid. I am not aware of their having been found within the pericardium. These cartilaginous bodies of the serous membranes appear to be of two kinds; the one of more frequent occurrence ap- proaches nearly to cartilage in its structure; the other has a greater or less resemblance to fibro-cartilage. I have found the following cases of the presence of these cartilaginous bodies within the cavity of the peritoneum record- ed. Laennec states, that Littre once observed one of these bodies loose within the cavity of the peritoneum. Andral mentions that he has found them more than once, sometimes loose, and sometimes adhering to the inner surface of the pe- ritoneum. Beclard once saw one of these bodies, which had been found loose within the peritoneum, of the size of a nut, consisting of concentric lamina?, with a calcareous deposit in the centre. It, in fact, exactly resembled the largest one in the case before us, except in being of a smaller size. There is a delineation and description given of one of these tumours found adhering to the surface of the pleura, by Mr Wardrop, m the ninth volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surreal Journal, which also exactly resembled in its structure • Cruveilhier's Anatomic Patliologique, Tonie i. t Andral's Anatomie Pathologique, TomeDr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 4 the largest of these bodies in the case before us. It was of the size of a hazel-nut, and composed of concentric laminae, sur- rounding a calcareous central portion. It must occur but very rarely to find these bodies of so large a size ; and in so many of the splanchnic serous membranes in the same subject. Andral states that he has never seen them larger than a bean. Laennec * seems to have satisfied himself, in examining a tunica vaginalis, containing some of these bodies in different stages of their growth, and where the circumstances were high- ly favourable for ascertaining the nature of their formation, that they were first deposited behind the serous membranes; that, as they increased in size, they pushed it before them, so as to be- come completely enveloped by it, and only retained in their place by a thin band of serous membrane. This band at last gives way, and they fall loose into the interior of the serous sac. Andral, while he believes that the accidental cartilages found within the original serous membranes of the body are formed in the manner described by Laennec, yet supposes that those found in the interior of cysts developed in other parts of the body may be formed in the fluid effused from the inner surface of the sac. Dupuytrenf and Raspailj have both affirmed that the small cartilaginous bodies which occur occasionally in considerable numbers, and which have been most frequently found in a cyst connected with the annular ligament of the wrist-joint are entozoa. § The former rested his belief upon some sup- posed spontaneous movements which he observed in them ; the latter draws his arguments from their structure and chemical composition, in which he supposes they resemble the eggs of an animal, which would form a new genus between the Cysti- cercns and Coenurus. Bosc and Dumeril, to whom Dupuytren submitted specimens of these bodies for examination, both came, however, to a different conclusion. In dissecting a subject lately, we found a fibro-calcareous tumour about the size of a hazel nut, surrounded by a serous membrane, lying loose in the lower part of the pelvis, and with- in the sac of the peritoneum, which evidently owed its origin to a different source from those which we have mentioned above. " Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, Tome iv. •f- Cruvcilhier, Oper. cit. Tome i. p. 324. J Organic Cliemistry, translated by Dr Henderson, p. 314. § Tlie liistory and description of these cysts point tliem out to be the hiirna viv- comi surrounding the flexor tendons, as they pass below the annular ligament of the wrist, distended with fluid and these cartilaginous bodies. The appearance of the double cyst is produced by the annular ligament being stretched across tiic distend- ed bursa.Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 5 Deposited in the body of the uterus, and among loose cellular tissue between the uterus and external surfoce of the perito- neum in this subject, we found a great number of rounded tu- mours of various sizes, the largest of which were almost entire- ly calcareous, some of the smaller were fibro-calcareous, and others again were entirely fibrous. Two of the smaller tu- mours had pushed the peritoneum before them, and were only attached loosely by a fold of this membrane. The origin of this fibro-calcareous tumour, and the manner in which it pas- sed into the cavity of the peritoneum, are sufficiently obvious, and afford an excellent illustration of Laennec's explanation of the mode by which the cartilaginous bodies found in serous membranes escape into their interior. Tumours of various kinds may in this manner become loose, and pass into the in- terior of any of the serous membranes of the body. My friend Dr J. Y. Simpson informs me, that he examined a preparation at Guy's Hospital Museum, in which there were continuous rows of small carcinomatous tubercles running along the course of the intercostal vessels, some of which showed a tendency to pediculation. He saw in the same museum an irregular, no- dulated, roundish, white, and glistening body of the size of a walnut, which was found loose in the cavity of the pleura. II.—On the Varieties of the Obturator Artery, and the re- lation of these to the Femoral Ring. I strongly suspect that the obturator artery runs a greater risk of being wounded during the operation for strangulated femoral hernia, than many surgeons are inclined to admit; and if this be the case, the varieties in the origin and course of this artery deserve a fuller considerjrtion than what is generally al- lotted to them, in the systematic works on anatomy and sur- gery of this country. Mr Guthrie states, in his Essay on Femoral and Inguinal Her- nia, when speaking of the danger of wounding the obturator artery m operations for strangulated femoral hernia, '* that he has been made aware of more than one accident of this nature havnig occurred in operations performed by some of the best anatomists and surgeons in London, and the patients subse- quently bled at intervals, until they died from hemorrhao-e Robert * mentions, that the celebrated Mursinna, in operatlno- for strangulated femoral hernia, in a case where the obturatot' artery had surrounded the neck of the sac, wounded the exter- nal coat of the artery, and that the patient died eight days af- ter, from hemorrhage arising from a rupture of the iniured ar- tery. lies Progrcs cks Sciences Medicalcs, Tome viii. p. lyS.6 Dr John Reid^s Anatomical Observations. In 1831,1 witnessed a somewhat similar case in the practice of Dupuy tren at the Hotel-Dieu. The patient was a female about 60 years of age, who was brought into the hospital with well marked symptoms of strangulated femoral hernia. All the urgent symp- toms ceased after the operation, and she seemed to he going on well for a fortnight, when she was seized with severe diarrhoea, which soon carried her off. On dissection, abroad sheet of effused blood was observed through the peritoneum^ evidently placed between that membrane and the fascia transversalis of Sir A. Cooper, extending from the lower part of the pelvis^ up near- ly to the umbilicus. This was found to have taken place from the obturator artery, which in this case had arisen from the external iliac by a trunk common to it with the epigastric, and had nearly surrounded the neck of the sac, and which, during the operation, had been completely cut across. Dupuy- tren remarked, that the blood which escaped externally during the operation was greater than usual, but this soon ceased. Had thi^ woman not died from the effects of the diarrhoea, it would never have been discovered that the obturator artery had been wounded. The extent of the hemorrhage was in all probability diminished, by the artery having been completely cut across. The most common origin of the obturator artery is from the internal iliac or some of its branches; but in a great number of cases it is found to arise either directly, or much more com- monly indirectly from the external iliac, by a trunk common to it with the epigastric. When it arises from the internal iliac, it is evident that it can in no way be implicated in the operation for femoral hernia, in whatever manner it may be performed. Even when it arises from the external iliac, it is but very rarely endangered in the ordinary methods of perform- ing this operation, as it generally proceeds downwards and inwards, first passing along the outer or iliac side of the fe- moral ring, and then along part of its posterior margin, to reach the upper portion of the obturator foramen. In the rarer cases, which seem to be principally those in which the common trunk of the obturator and epigastric is longer than usual, the obturator takes a more circuitous course, passing along the up- per margin of the femoral ring, and then along its inner or pubic margin. It must be evident that when a femoral hernia descends, the relative position of the artery to the neck of the sac, in these two cases, is very different, and, in a practical point of view, involves very important considerations. We have stated that the most common, or what is considered the normal origin of this artery, is from the internal iliac, or one of its branches. The origin next in frequency is by a com-Dr John Keid's Anatomical Observations. 7 mon trunk with the epigastric from the external iliac. More rarely it springs directly from the external iliac, and still more rare ly from the femoral. Though the artery may thus arise from points placed at a considerable distance from each other, it invariably makes its way out of the pelvis by the same opening, viz. the upper part of the obturator foramen. When it is a branch of the femoral it mounts upwards along that ar- tery, passes below Poupart's ligament, and places itself in the same position as if it had arisen within the abdomen. Cloquet* examined250subjects; 125females, andl25males, for the purpose of ascertaining the relative frequency of the origin of the obturator, from the hypogastric, external iliac, and epigastric. In these the obturator arose from the hypogas- tric in both sides in 160; from the epigastric on both sides in 56 ; from the epigastric on one side, and the hypogastric on the other, in 28 ; from the external iliac in 6. Including both sides of the body, thus increasing the number of arteries examined to 500, and taking all the obturator arteries which arose from the ■hypogastric arteries, and all those which arose from epigastric arteries, or directly from the external iliac, he found that the obturator arose from the hypogastric in 348 ; from the epigas- tric or external iliac in 152. According to these results, the frequency of the origin of the obturator artery from the hypo- gastric are to those from the epigastric and external illiac as 3 to 1. The obturator was found to arise rather more frequent- ly from the hypogastric in males than in females. Monro be- lieves the relative proportion between the origin of the obtura- tor artery from the internal iliac and its branches, and from the epigastric and external iliac, to be as 20 to I. Velpeau -f* states that his observations, drawn from the examination of nearly a thousand cases, led him to coincide in Monro's opinion. Hes- selbach + thinks that the origin of the obturator from the external iliac and epigastric is not very common, and strange- ly asserts, that it rarely occurs except in females. Manec states the proportion to be 1 in 6; Scarpa and Lawrence as 1 in 15. According to other researches § the obturator was found to arise in common with the epigastric in 12 out of 63 subjects, affected with crural hernia, and in all passed behind the neck of the sac. Meckel || is of opinion that the obturator arises nearly as frequently from the epigastric and external iliac, as from the internal iliac and its branches. My own dissections have furnished me with results approaching very nearly to those Recherches Anatomiques sur les Hernias de I'Abdomen, p. 72. t Traite Complct d'Anatomie Chirurgicale, 2d Kdit. T Origine, &c. des Arter, Epig. et Obturat, § La Medecine Operatoire par Sabatier, p 600. Tome iii. F,. 1830. II Manuel d'Anatomie Deseriplive, (iencrnle, &c, Tome ii.8 Dr John Reld's Anatomical Observations. of Cloquet. Of course the only conclusion that can be drawn from these discordant statements is, that the obturator arises very frequently from the external iliac, in common with the epi- gastric. The epigastric has been observed by Monro, Hesselbach, Lauth, and Velpeau, to arise from the obturator or some of the branches of the internal iliac, so that it might in some cases, such as in that detailed by Hesselbach, be carried to the inner side of the sac in femoral hernia. Some, as Cruveilhier, * maintain, that these descriptions of the origin of the epigastric from the ob- turator ought to be considered as nothing more than the branch ■which generally passes between those arteries increased beyond the usual size; but Velpeau *}- seems quite convinced of the ac- curacy of one at least of these descriptions from actual ob- servation. J3r Barclay was the first to dissect and prepare a case of femoral hernia, in which the obturator artery passed along the pubic side of the neck of the sac. This preparation, unique at the time, was delineated in Sir A. Cooper's work on Femoral Hernia, and is now in the Barclayian part of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. Mr Wardrop shortly after this described a similar case, also referred to by Sir A. Cooper in the same work. Dr Monro has seen the ar- tery passing on the pubic side of the neck of the sac three times. Dr Knox is in possession of a very beautiful preparation of this kind, in which the artery was firmly tied to the outer edge of Gimbernat's ligament. | Similar cases in which the obtura- tor artery took that course have been seen by Cloquet and Dr Thomson. Brechet § also refers, to one. I have no doubt, indeed I know, that similar cases have been seen by others; but the extreme rarity of the occurrence having passed over, these are not now made public. Allen Burns relates a case in which there were two femoral her- niae on the same side ; one protruding into the femoral ring, the other into the sheath of the vein. If the obturator artery had arisen in this case from the epigastric, it would in all probability have surrounded the greater part of the neck of the sac of the smaller hernia, protruding into the sheath of the vein. \\ Mr » Anatomic Descriptive, Tome iii. •j- Oper. cit. X This preparation is delineated and described in a very excellent probationary essay on the Obturator Artery, by Dr H. B. Macfarlane. § These sur la Hemic Femorale, p. 133. i • i t j| The protrusion of a hernia into the proper sheath of the vessels, by which 1 mean the tendinous septa passing backwards from the posterior surface of Pouparts ligament, and upper part of the iliac portion of ihc fascia lata betweecn the artery and vein, and also on the pubic side of the vein, to the pubic portion of the fascui lata., must be an exceedingly rare occurrence, since this is not only prevented by the close manner in which the sheath envelopes the vessels, but more particularly by the reflexion of the/flsdrt transversalis from Poupart's ligament upon the anterior sur-Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 9 Lawrence infers that the obturator artery may surround the neck of the sac, so as to become endangered in 1 of 80 cases of femoral hernia. As this calculation, however, must be formed from imperfect data, we can only regard it as an approximation to the truth. When the obturator arises in common with the epigastric, we generally observe a small branch running in the more usual course of the obturator, and vice versa. Meckel supposes that in the foetus, the obturator is always formed by two branches, one from the internal iliac, and one from the epigastric or ex- ternal iliac; that these are at first of equal calibre, but, as the growth proceeds, one of them becomes arrested in its develope- ment, and never proceeds beyond the foetal state, while the other enlarges in proportion to the increasing size of the parts which it supplies. The epigastric generally sends two small branches over the posterior surface of Gimbernat's ligament, one of these ra- mifying upon the posterior surface of the pubis, the other pro- ceeding downwards to the upper part of the obturator/o?'ame72, to connect itself with the obturator artery. This last branch, if we admit MeckePs views to be correct, must be regarded as forming part of the obturator artery in the foetus, and which often becomes enlarged, while the other branch remains of the foetal size; so that what is generally considered as the abnor- mal origin of the obturator artery is only the enlargement of a normal branch. In a preparation made by Mr Liston, and described and figured by Dr Monro, this branch passing be- tween the epigastric and obturator is of unusual size. This resembles cases alluded to by Cruveilhier, where the branches from the epigastric and internal iliac forming the obturator were of equal calibre. The obturator vein often passes up to join itself to the epi- gastric vein. In this course it may surround the neck of the sac. Allen Burns has seen an instance of this kind. Michelet found the internal circumflex artery in one case arising in common with the epigastric, and he supposes that if a femo- ral hernia had descended, it might have been pushed to the pubic side of the neck of the sac. I had an opportunity of dissecting a similar variety two winters ago ; but in that case the artery would, in all probability, have lain on the iliac side of the neck of the sac. In one subject last winter I found the converse of this variety ; the epigastric arose from the inter- face of tlie vessels. If, however, we with some anatomists describe the fascia cribH. jorvus as the iintenor part of the sheath of the vessels, and the pubic portion of the jascta lata v/hic , lies behind the vessels as the posterior part of their shcatli, then every temoral hernia lies in tlic sheath of the vessels.Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 10 nal circumflex an inch and a quarter below Poupart's liga- ment. The artery in this case would also in all probability have been placed on the outer side of the sac, had a femoral hernia descended. Besides the constant danger of cutting directly outwards from the position of the common femoral vein, of carrying the knife upwards and outwards to any great extent from the proximi- ty of the origin of the epigastric artery, of cutting directly upwards, for much more than two lines in the male from the presence of the spermatic chord, we find that there are other blood-vessels, deviating from their usual course, which may occasionally present themselves to the cutting edge of the knife, in whatever manner the operation may be performed. Though no surgeon in this country would, in consequence of this, be inclined to adopt the method of dilating the stricture, yet it must deeply impress upon his mind the necessity of not ex- tending his incisions for enlarging the stricture, beyond what is absolutely necessary for returning the contents of the hernia without violence. * If the obturator should happen to be divided during the operation, are we to stand idly by, and not attempt to secure the cut extremities of the artery ? Mr Guthrie has very pro- perly strongly protested against such inactivity, and lays down the following directions for securing the artery. " In the male a transverse incision should be made in the line of Poupart's ligament, the tendon of the external oblique muscle cut through, and the spermatic chord exposed ; this is to be drawn upwards, and kept in that situation by a bent probe. Poupart's ligament is then to be cut through until the first incision for dividing the stricture is met by that just made. The blood will now easily lead to the artery, which must be secured by a ligature, and to render this easy of execution, sufficient space and a blunt knife only can be wanted in addition to the forceps and ligature. In the female the operation is very simple, as the round ligament requires little attention being paid to it." III.—Malposition of the Large Intestines in two indivi- duals, apparently causing fatal Ileus in one of them. Case I. When attending two years ago an autopsy of an individual who had died of some thoracic disease, I found the following abnormal position of the large intestines. The caput coecum was placed in the upper part of the left lumbar region ; the colon first passed through the left lumbar region, • In some of the cases in which the obturator surrounds the neck of the sac, the incisions for enlarging the stricture may probably be carried for a line or two with- out endangering the artery.Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 11 to the lower part of the left illiac fossa, it then turned up again to the left lumbar region, the ascending portion lying inter- nal to, and nearly in close apposition with the descending por- tion ; in the left lumbar region it again formed an acute angle and again traversed the left lumbar region and left iliac fossa, close to and internal to the ascending portion, and then pas- sing over the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, it terminated as usual in the rectum. All the large intestines were thus coiled up in the left lumbar region and left iViac^fossa ; and were firmly tied in their situation by the reflexions of the peritoneum. The small intestines consequently occupied that portion of the um- bilical region and of the right side of the abdomen where the large intestines are usually placed. On dissecting out the superior mesenteric artery, I found that the arch formed by this artery, instead of presenting the usual form, was reversed ; the convexity instead of looking downwards and to the left side, looked downwards and to the right. From the convexity of the arch the arteries supplying the jejunum, and ileum arose as usual, and from the concavity sprung the usual bran- ches distributed to the large intestine. The textures of the intestine were perfectly healthy. Case II. During last summer, I assisted my friend Dr Weir of Bathgate, to examine the body of a boy about 17 years of age, who died of ileus. The disease had lasted ten days, and had resisted the most active and judicious treatment. The position of the large intestine in this boy exactly resembled that already described, with this trifling difference, that the caput caecum was not so firmly fixed in the left lumbar region as in the other. We had the same folding of the large in- testine in the left side of the abdomen, and the same acute an- gles formed at the turns of the intestine. Circumstances pre- vented us from ascertaining the position of the vessels in this case. Almost the whole of jejunum, the ileum, caput coscum, and colon down to the point where it formed an acute angle with the portion that turned up, were greatly distended, of a livid colour, and contained a great quantity of air and fluid feces. That portion of the large intestine below the dilated portion was much contracted. This boy had long been sub- ject to colic pains, and these, as well as the fatal attack of ileus, were in all probability to be attributed to the malposition of the intestine, and the close manner in which it was bound in its situation by the 'peritoneum. The malposition in both cases was evidently the original for- mation of the parts, and not the effect of disease or any other agency. From what I have been able to learn from authors, and from12 Dr John llcid's Anatomical Observations. conversation with several experienced anatomists, I am led to believe that the abnormal position of the large intestines here described must be a very rare occurrence. Besides the cases of transposition of the whole of the viscera^ various irregularities in the position of the large intestines are mentioned by practical authors, and by those engaged in elucidat- ing the developement of xhe fostus-., some of these undoubtedly arising from original conformation, and others from disease. The most common of the former of these seems to depend upon the un- usual length of the intestine, particularly of the transverse arch of the colon. Morgagni describes several cases of this kind, where the transverse arch of the colon, in passing across the upper part of the unibilical region, proceeded downwards to a greater or less extent; in some cases as far as the pelvis^ and again turned up to the umbilical region to pursue its usual course. Mr Annesley* gives descriptions and delineations of similar cases. The sigmoid flexure of the colon sometimes makes a very unusual bend into the margin of the umbilical region, occasionally producing a re- tardation of the contents of the intestinal canal. An example of this is given by Dr Abercrombie, and another also by Mr An- nesley. The ascending colon sometimes makes a similar curva- ture. In some cases all the different portions of the colon are of unusual length, and the large intestine takes a very irregu- lar and winding course through the cavity of the ahdomen. Annesley gives a very remarkable example of this kind. Dr Wells -f- also relates a somewhat similar case, and G. St Hi- laire found it in a monstrous foetus^ assuming the great length peculiar to some of the lower animals. The ca-piit coccum, may be placed higher than usual, so as to lie in the right lum- bar region, or towards the umbilicus. Annesley gives one case where it was placed in the middle of the pelvis^ but he seems to considers this as the effect of derangement of the func- tions of the intestinal canal, j" Connected with the high position of the ccecum, we may have the colon passing from the umbi- * On the Diseases of India, Vol. ii. -f- Vol. 3d of the Transactions of a Society for improving Medical and Chirur- gical Knowledge. I have just examined the body of an aged female, who died of pleurisy, in wiiom the caput coccinii was placed loose in the lower part of the pelvis, and the ascending colon was firmly fixed by tiic peritoneum in the right iliac fossa. Tiie sigmoid flexure, after passing into the jjclvis, turned upon itself at an acute angle, and re-entered theleft iliac region, about the middle part of which it formed another acute angle, and re- turned to the j'clms. All the abdominal viscera were quite healthy. In examining the abdomen of a boy seven years of age, the ctr.c«?« was found lying in the right lumbar region ; from this it followed its usual course, until it reach- ed the lelt iliac fossa, wlien it crossed the spine to the right iliac fossa, where it turn- ed upon itself and then passed into the jwlvlt on the right side. The trunk of the in- terior mysenteric artery, after sending oft'the lel't colic and sigmoid branch, passed to the right of the spine, accompanying the intestine. The testicles had descended.Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. - 13 lical region, down the centre of the abdomen, to terminate in the rectum.* These are the more interesting, as they ap- proach nearly to the position which the large intestine occupies in the first months of foetal developement. Meckel f has as- certained, that, in the early months of utero-gestation, the co- lon does not consist of ascending, transverse, and descending portions as in the adult, but is nearly straight; and that it is only towards the end of the fourth month that the caput cae- cum reaches the right lumbar region. According to Serres, the position of tlie capiit caecum in the right iliac fossa is in- timately connected with the descent of the testicle in the male, and that of the ovary in the female. In these cases, where the descent of the testicle has been arrested, he has found that of the ccecum also arrested. The high position of the caput ccecum and the descent of the colon through the centre of the abdomen are only the persistence of an arrangement which is perfectly normal in tlio foetus, at a certain stage of its developement. According to Meckel, the descending colon describes a larger curvature in the left \\\ac fossa in the fcetus, during the latter months of utero-gestation, so that this appearance in the adult is only the continuance of the arrangement peculiar to the foetus at that period. Though many of the abnormal appearances in the adult can be beautifully and most satisfactorily accounted for by the arrestment of the developement, yet there are others which have as yet baffled all the ingenuity and industry of those ce- lebrated anatomists and physiologists who have thrown so much ligiit upon this subject; and among these we may at present class the two cases of malposition of the larger intestine which I have here detailed. We must regard the contracted portion of the intestine, situated below the dilated portion in the fatal case of ileus, as quite healthy. A contracted state of a greater or less por- tion of the intestinal canal is so frequent an appearance after death, where we have no reason to suppose that its functions were derangedduringlife,thatitcannotof itself be considered morbid. That the intestine below the dilated portion should become con- tracted is, in fact, nothing more than what we would expect, since it is a general law in the animal economy, that when the usual substances cease to pass along any tube or duct, its calibre soon becomes diminished, and is ultimately entirely obliterated. So " Vox example of the passage of the transverse arch of the colon down the centre of the abdomen to terminate in the rectum, see Morgagni de Sed. ct Cans. Morb. Lib. II. Fipist. 17 et Lib. III. Epist. ;i4. t Manuel d'Anatomie Gcncralc, Descriptive, &c. Tom. ii.Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 14 in a case of ilens^ when the in^esta are retarded for many days together at a particular point, it Is nothing remarkable that the portion of the intestine below this should contract up- on itself. While performing a series of experiments upon frogs some short time ago, with the view of illustrating how far the contractility of the muscular fibre is dependent upon the central organs of the nervous system, I was often struck with the rapidity with which inflammation of the muscular tissue destroyed its contractility, so that it refused to contract even upon the application of galvanism. This is in perfect accord- ance with Dr Abercrombie's theory of the pathology of ileus. lY,-^Permanent Flexion of the Fhigers from Shortening and Thickening' of the Palmar Aponeurosis. iNamuscular and aged male subject in the Dissecting-Rooms, the little and ring-fingers in one hand were firmly and perma- nently bent ; and the same fingers in the opposite hand were also flexed, but in a much less degree. On removing the in- teguments of the palm of the hand, this was found to depend upon very great thickening and shortening of the palmar apo- neurosis. The aponeurosis in the fingers most affected extend- ed beyond the metacarpal phalangean articulations, towards the distal end of the ^xoyiimsi] phalanges. On cutting through the palmar aponeurosis we observed a circumstance which has not been alluded to by Dupuytren,* and on account of which I have thought the case worthy of notice. We foundthatthering-finger could only be extended very par- tially, and the little finger still less, after ihe aponeurosis and ten- dons had been freely divided. All the articulations of the affected fingers were perfectly healthy, and the only explanation of the continued flexion that we could give, was, that theligamentscon- necting the articulations, from their being long constrained to one position, had accommodated themselves to their altered circum- stances. We have seen the same thing twice in the knee-joint. In two cases of disease of the hip-joint, the knee-joint of the same side presented every appearance of having been also af- fected, but on dissecting them we found that all the textures en- tering into the formation of the joint were perfectly sound, and the only cause which we could discover for the bent position of the limb was a shortening of those ligaments which are relax- ed in flexion. If an operation had been attempted in this case, the division of the palmar aponeurosis would have produced little imme- diate benefit, and might have prejudiced the minds of some " Lemons Orales, Tome i.Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. 15 ao-ainst performing the operation in the cases favourable for it. It is probable that continued extension would have the effect of restoring the ligaments to their former state. I would not wish it to be inferred that the muscles had not also accommodated themselves to the circumstances under which they had been for a long time placed, and that they would not also have strongly resisted for a time any efforts made to move the articular surfaces upon each other. Upon the extent of the muscular shortening in these cases we had no data to of- fer any opinion, as it would have been necessary to have first cut through the ligaments of the joint to have enabled us to ascertain this. The previous history of this man could not be obtained. Since the above description was written, I have perused a short but excellent paper on the permanent flexion of the fingers by M. G. Geyrand, Surgeon to the THotel-Dieu d'Aix, contained in the 4th fasciculus of the Memoires de TAca- demie Royale de Medecine for 1838. M. Geyrand there gives a very minute and detailed account of a dissection of a case of this kind, where the palmar aponeurosis and flexor tendons were perfectly natural, and where the fingers were held in flexion by fibrous chords, which he considered to be of new formation, running from the palmar aponeurosis to be inserted into the fibrous sheaths surroundino- the flexor tendons. Some of these chords were attached to the first phalanx, others went on to the second, and others again passed between one phalanx and another. All these bands were composed of parallel fibres. In the fresh state they were very resisting, altogether inex- tensible, and had the whiteness and aspect of ligaments. M. Gey- rand argues from the facts ascertained in this dissection, from the appearances observed in two other cases which he had an opportunity of examining on the living body, and also from the account given by Dupuytren himself, of the different steps of one of his operations where he must have cut one of these fibrous bands, running upon the anterior surface of the first phalanx, that Dupuytren must have misunderstood the cause of the retraction of the fingers, when he attributed it to a crisp- ing up of the palmar aponenrosis. But as Sanson, in his re- port upon this memoir of M. Geyrand states, it is quite im- possible that Dupuytren could have made any mistake of this kind in the case which he dissected after death, and which first unfolded to him the true nature of the disease, so that we must conclude that the developement of these fibrous bands may produce permanent retraction of the fingers in the same man- ner as the shortening and thickening of the palmar aponeuro-16 Dr John Reid's Anatomical Observations. sis does, and that these may effect this independently of each other. Sanson is inchned to beheve that these fibrous bands are the exaggeration of a cellulo-fibrous tissue passing from the aponeurosis forwards to the phalanges, the rudiments of which exist in the sound state. In the dissection which we detailed above, the flexion evi- dently depended both upon a thickening and shortening of the palniar aponeurosis, and upon the presence of the fibrous bands passing from its anterior part towards the distal end of the first phalanx, and exactly resembling it in structure. The altera- tion in the palmar aponeurosis itself was to a considerable ex- tent, and perfectly obvious. EDINBURGH: I'RINTED BY JOHX STARK, Ol.n ASSEMBLY CLOSE.