LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark:The University Library Leeds The John F. Preston Collection of Cookery Books The Gift of Mr. Preston 1962%**y ' tr « ! * uwasin U8M8Y l£EBf /U/0 •INTRODUCTION. The pernicious custom of eating animal food having become so general in this country, the following observations are submitted to the consideration of the public, in the hope that some impartial and well- disposed persons will be thereby induced to relinquish the practice, from a conviction that the flesh of animals is not only unnecessary for the support of man, but that a vegetable diet is more favourable to health, humanity and religion. That animal food is unnecessary to the sustenance of man, will appear evident, when it is considered, that in the first ages of the world, mankind lived wholly on the vegetable productions of the earth, and that even at this day, millions of human beings in Asia and Africa subsist in a similar manner. But we need not go back to the primitive ages, nor travel to distant climes in order to prove that vegetable food is nutritive and salutary; we have the evidence at hand: the most hardy Highlanders take comparatively little animal food, and the Irish labourer, who works hard and possesses much strength, lives principally on a vegetable diet. If additional testimony were needed, proofs sufficient to establish the practicability and salutariness of the system are afforded in the health and strength enjoyed by the persons belonging to the society of which the Editor of this work is a member, upwards of one hundred of whom have entirely abstained from animal food and intoxicating liquor from ten to twenty years. That a vegetable diet is more favourable to health, there can be little doubt. The nations that subsist on this kind of food are strong, robust, and capable of enduring the greatest fatigue: and it is generally ad- AINTRODUCTION. 11. mitted that the long lives of the primitive race of men must, in a great degree, be attributed to the whole- someness of the food on which mankind then lived. On the other hand, we have the testimony of several eminent characters, both ancient and modern, that many of the diseases with which mankind are afflicted may be ascribed to the eating of animal food. Dr. Lambe has clearly demonstrated that not a few of the diseases with which the people of this country are afflicted, may be attributed to this baneful diet. An eminent Physician of Paris, in a work published some years ago, has also shewn that numerous diseases are caused or increased by the eating of animal flesh. It is generally allowed that the eating of swine’s flesh is the principal cause of the scurvy, and that a vegetable diet is absolutely necessary to effect a com- plete cure. Dr. Buchan says that “consumptions, so common in England, are in part owing to the great use of animal food.” The gout is also said to be caused, in some degree, by the eating of flesh-meat, and instances are on record of its being cured by a milk-diet. Mr. Abernethy, whose opinion on this subject will not be questioned, says, "If you put improper food into the stomach, it becomes disordered and the w'hole system is affected. Vegetable matter ferments and becomes gaseous; while animal substances are changed into a putrid, abominable, and acrid stimulus. Mow some people acquire preposterous noses, others blotches on the face and different parts of the body, others inflammation of the eyes—ail arising from the irrita- tions of the stomach. I am often asked,” says Mr. Abernethy, "why I don’t practice what I preach? I answer by reminding the inquirer of the parson and the sign-post; both point the way, but neither follow its course.” Thus we see that it is easier to acknow- ledge a true principle than to live according to it. As a further illustration of the pernicious effects of animal flesh on the human system, the following fact may be adduced: "The late Sir Edward Berry111. INTRODUCTION. prevailed on a man to live on partridges, without vege- tables, but after eight days* trial he was obliged to desist, in consequence of strong symptoms then appearing of an incipient putrefaction.” This fact, alone, is suffi- cient to prove that it is the use of the vegetables along with the animal substance, that enables mankind to sustain the bad effects of the latter. In addition to the above, let us not forget that animals, like human beings, are subject to diseases, uncleannesses, and surfeits; that diseased meat is sometimes exposed for sale, and also that it is not a very unfrequent practice for butchers, perhaps with diseased lungs, to blow their meat, particularly veal, to make it look fine. Animal food, therefore, must always be more or less dangerous. For it is impossible for us to take into our stomachs putrefying, corrupting, and diseased animal substances, without being subjected to foul bodily diseases, weaknesses, corruptions, and prema- ture death. If, then, we would enjoy health ourselves, and avoid laying the foundation of disease in our offspring, we must cease to degrade and bestialize our bodies by making them the burial places for the car- casses of innocent brute animals, some healthy, some diseased, and all violently murdered. That food has an effect on the disposition, is clearly evinced by the different tempers of the carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the former are savage, ferocious creatures that prowl out at night and seek to destroy all within their reach; the others wander tranquilly on the plains in herds, enjoy themselves in the day, and manifest their innocence by various playful sports with each other. The temper of the carnivorous animal, however, is materially altered by the kind of food which is given to it. A dog, for instance, which is fed on raw flesh, is much more fierce and rapacious than one that feeds on milk or vegetable substances. And the ferocity even of a lion, has been greatly abated, and he has been rendered tractable by being fed on vegetable food.IV. INTRODUCTION. The same effect of aliment is discernible among the different nations of men. “ The Tartars,” says Sir John Sinclair, “who live principally on animal food, possess a degree of ferocity of mind and fierceness of character which forms the leading features of all car- nivorous animals. On the other hand, a vegetable diet gives to the disposition, as it appears in the Brahmin and Gentoo, a mildness of feeling directly the reverse of the former.” There can be no doubt, therefore, that the practice of slaughtering and devouring animals, has a tendency to strengthen in us a murderous disposition and brutal nature, rendering us insensible to pity and inducing us more easily to sanction the murdering of our fellow men. On the contrary, vegetable food clears the intel- lect, preserves innocency, increases compassion and love. We shall now proceed to shew that a vegetable diet ought to be preferred from a principle of humanity. It cannot be doubted, that there exists within us by nature a repugnance to the spilling of blood, and we cannot even see an animal tortured, much less, killed, without feelings of compassion: this feeling of the heart, implanted by the Deity, should be considered as a guide to human conduct. Had the Creator intended man to be an animal of prey, would He have implanted in his breast an instinct so adverse to His purpose ? Could He mean that the human race should eat their food with compunction and regret; that every morsel should be purchased with a pang, and every meal of man empoisoned with remorse? Were we forced, with our own hands, to kill the animals which we devour, who is there amongst us, whose disposition has not been vitiated, that would not throw down with detestation the knife, and, rather than imbrue his hands in the blood of the innocent lamb, consent, for ever to forego the favourite repast? Then ought we to induce others to commit what we cannot freely commit ourselves? Wild beasts of the field willINTRODUCTION. V. seldom kill, unless impelled by hunger, or in self- defence; what excuse, then, can we have for such a practice, while we have so many delicious fruits and vegetables? If we attend to the anatomy of the human body, it seems as if man was formed by nature to be a frugivo- rous animal; and, that he only becomes an animal of prey by acquired habit. The form and disposition of the intestines is very similar to that of the Ouran- Outang, or man of the woods, an animal which lives on fruit and vegetables. It has also been remarked that all carnivorous animals have a smooth and uniform colon, and all herbivorous animals a cellulated one. Nor do we appear to be adapted by nature to the use of animal food from the conformation of the teeth. The carnivorous animals, such as lions, tygers, wolves, dogs, &c., have their teeth long, sharp and uneven, with intervals between them; but the herbivorous animals, such as horses, cows, sheep, goats, &e., have their teeth short, broad, blunt, adjoining one another, and distributed in even rows. Now, as man has received from nature teeth which are unlike those of the first class, and resemble those of the second, it seems that nature intended him to follow in the selection of his food not the carnivorous tribes, but those races of animals which are contented with the simple produc- tions of the earth. Some persons, however, will argue that man is a mixed animal, and designed to live upon both animal and vegetable substances, because he does so live. This reminds us of a circumstance mentioned by Buffon, of a sheep being so trained to eat mutton that it would no longer eat grass; but will any man contend that sheep were designed to live on mutton, because their nature might be so far perverted, as in the case above-men- tioned? If, then, men have degenerated from their ori- ginal simplicity and innocence, is it to be contended that custom is a sufficient proof that their conduct is now right ? Others say that animals eat each other, and a 2VI. INTRODUCTION. why may not we eat them ? What! because we see a wolf worry a lamb, are we to imitate the practice and inherit the disposition of the wolf? Some modern sophists will sarcastically ask, "Why is man furnished with the canine, or dogteeth, except that nature meant him to be carnivorous ?” Is, then, the 'propriety of an action to be determined purely by the physical capacity of the agent? Is it right to do every thing we have the power to do ? Because nature has furnished man with the capacity to devour human flesh, will any one pre- tend that he was made to feed on his fellow men ? The possessing of similar instruments, powers or capacities, ought not to be too much relied upon as indications of nature, with respect to the mode of living. Hares and rabbits have feet very similar, but how different are their habits! A dog has claws and he will make a hole in the ground with them to get at a mouse, but he will not burrow in the ground to escape from the cold ; therefore itwouldbe absurd to infer that he was designed by nature to live like a rabbit. The Ouran-Outang and man have similar teeth; the former lives entirely on fruits, and the latter gives proof that he can devour every kind of animal, from the oyster to the elephant. Another question asked by the opposers of this humane system is, "If we should live entirely on vegetable food, what would become of the cattle ? They would grow so numerous, they would produce a famine, or eat us up if we did not kill and eat them.” These are rather suppositions than arguments, mere fancies, because unexperienced. But it may be observed, that there are abundance of animals in the world which men do not kill for food, and yet we do not hear of their injuring mankind, or becoming too numerous. Besides, mul- tiparous animals live but a short time, and many of them perish, unless attention is paid to them by men. Cattle are at present an article of trade, and their num- bers are industriously promoted. If cows and sheep were kept solely for their milk and fleece, and if they should become too numerous, mankind would readilyINTRODUCTION. VII. find means of reducing them without having recourse to the butcher’s knife. We need not, however, at present, be under any apprehension in this county, of being eaten up by cows and sheep, for there is sufficient land for the support of a great increase both of men and animals. England alone, which now contains only about twelve millions of inhabitants, is capable of producing, by spade hus- bandry, a sufficiency of nutritive vegetables for the support of one hundred and twenty millions of human beings: but if every one must consume a pound of flesh a-day, there is scarcely enough of land for the existing population; we are, therefore, more likely to suffer from famine, under the present system, than we should be if the practice of abstaining from animal food were more generally adopted. To those who ask, what would be the consequence if the vegetable system should be universally adopted ? This must be the answer : It is evident that by imitating those of the golden age, we should be free and happy. , There would be fewer diseases, less crime, no wars, no sla- very; but universal peace and good will would be established among men. Having stated a few of the facts and arguments which may be advanced in favour of a vegetable regimen, in reference to health and humanity, it may be useful to shew that the laws contained in sacred scripture, and the practice of the wisest and the best of men in all ages, are in accordance with the laws of nature and the dictates of reason. Some persons adopt the system on account of health, or from motives of compassion to the brute creation, but they cannot see how the mode of living, as to food, can have any thing to do with religion. In the first place it may reasonably be asked, what kind of religion is that which is opposed to humanity P And is it of no consequence in a moral or religious point of view whether man lives according to sensual appetite or enlightened reason ? If ye live after theINTRODUCTION. Vlll. flesh, says the Apostle, ye shall die, but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. The design of the laws of God is to teach man the best means of attaining happiness botK here and here- after. And as so much depends on our possessing a sound mind in a sound body, our merciful Creator, who knows what is best for us, has condescended to give us laws respecting what we should eat and what we should not eat. This we shall endeavour to shew, by directing the reader’s attention to some passages of Scripture, which, if they have any meaning, must be directions to man in the choice of his food. If, then, reason, humanity and the law of God point the same way, we have three witnesses to the truth of the doc- trine. The conflicting opinions of men, respecting what is best, either for the promotion of health or hap- piness cannot safely be relied upon; let Dehy, then, decide the question; and if ye will do His will, ye shall know by experience, whether the doctrine be of God. In the first chapter of Genesis, after God had created man, he directed him concerning his food, saying, “ Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed, to you it shall be for meaty In the Decalogue, Jehovah says, “ Thou shall not kill.” Who dare limit the precept to the killing of human beings, when God has said, “Ye shall neither add to the law nor diminish aught from it ?” He fur- ther says, Flesh with the life thereof which is the blood thereof shall ye not eat: neither shall ye eat any man- ner of fat of ox, or of sheep or of goat in any of your dwellings. In the Christian dispensation, the Apostles held a council and issued a decree to the Churches, saying, “It seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these neces- sary things: that ye abstain from meats offered to idols, and from blood (or intoxicating wine, seeEzek. xxxix. 19.) and from things strangled,” or in other words, fromINTRODUCTION. IX. animals which have suffered a violent death. From Ju- dith xi. 12, we learn that the eating of animal food was what God had forbidden by his laws. And we have the strongest proof that the Israelites were fed with manna for forty years in the widerness, although they had much cattle. In Ecclus. xxxix. 26, it is said that the principal things for the use of man’s life are, salt, flour, wheat, honey, milk, &c., but there is no mention made of the flesh of cattle. From Prov. xxvii. 23—27, it would seem that the design of keeping flocks was for the fleece and the milk. See also 1 Cor. ix. 7, and Psalm xlix. 14.—These and several other passages, which might be adduced, may reasonably be considered as sufficient to convince a humane person that it is con- trary to the written law of God and to the feeling of compassion implanted in the heart, to kill innocent animals for our daily sustenance. We are well aware, however, that objections will be brought from scripture against this doctrine, as, for instance: “ Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you,” &c. But it should be recollected that every moving thing that liveth is not fit for meat: people do not eat lizards, worms, flies, ser- pents and dogs. Again: “Not that which goeth into the mouth defiles the man”—But does any man imagine that by this declaration, our Saviour meant to give full licence to gluttony and intemperance? That a man might swallow 'poison P Or that he might eat any thing which the law of God forbade to be eaten ? The sense in which the words were used must be gathered from the reason and the occasion of their being spoken, which was this—The Pharisees, being offended, murmured at the disciples of Jesus for sitting down to meat with un- washen hands: in answer to them Jesus says, “Not that which goeth into the mouth defiles,” &c.; that is to say, not a little soil or filth taken into the mouth by eating with unwashen hands, can be said to defile a man, &c. This is the plain and obvious sense of the words. Besides, these words were spoken twenty years before the Apostolic decree, which appears toX. INTRODUCTION. forbid the use of animal food to the-Gentiles; and would the Apostles make a decree in direct contra- diction to the declaration of Jesus P Another objec- fion has been stated: — In the account of Peter’s vision, we are informed that the Lord said to him, “Rise, Peter, kill and eat.”—But what did Peter him- self learn from the vision? He says that he under- stood that he was not to call any man common or unclean—and that the Gentiles were denoted by the animal appearances. Surely it will not be contended that real animals were let down in a sheet out of heaven? Peter was by this vision corrected of a prejudice, he, in common with the rest of the Jews, entertained against the Gentiles: and we afterwards find his brethren accu- sing him of going in to men uncircumcised and eating with them; that is to say, he went and partook of the sacrament with Gentiles and they became Christians, God having commanded him to do so—for the right rendering of the passage is,—Rise, Peter, sacrifice [or consecrate) and eat Another objection is, that the Apostle Paul has determined the lawfulness of eating any thing sold in the shambles, or set before us, asking no questions for conscience sake. But will any man in his senses interpret this permission to extend further than to things lawful and proper to be sold or eaten ? This would suit unprincipled dealers in flesh, and supersede the necessity of market-lookers. Besides, are we sure that nothing but flesh-meat is sold in places called shamblesP Moreover, can it be believed that St. Paul gave this permission in contradiction to the decree of the Apostles, a decree to which he himself consented, and which he was very active in circulating among the different churches? On an impartial examination, it will be found that these 'permissions of the Apostle relate entirely to meats offered to idols; parts of which offer- ings (though not of flesh-meat) were sometimes sold in the shambles or market, and sometimes eaten in private houses; and these the Apostle permitted to be eaten by Christians, asking no questions (whether theyXI. INTRODUCTION. had been offered to an idol) for conscience sake. The intention of that part of the decree was to keep Chris- tians from idolatry, and the best way to effect this was by prohibiting all communication with idols and idola- ters in their feasts instituted in honor of their idols: it being pretended by some that they might innocently partake of idol-feasts, since they knew that an idol teas nothing, and there was but one God. But after all, it may perhaps be said by some that it is the blood which is forbidden and not the flesh. This is a weak objec- tion, as it is well known that the flesh is constituted of the blood: how, then, can we eat flesh without eating blood P Having endeavoured briefly to answer some of the most common objections drawn from scripture, against the system, perhaps we may be permitted to say a few words respecting^'sA. On the authority of medical men it may be stated that the flesh of fish is more unwhole- some than that of land animals; it being more putrescent, as may be concluded from the nauseous and hepatic eructations of the stomach after it is eaten.—But it may be said. Did not Jesus eat fish? and were not his dis- ciples fishermen ? In order to come at the truth on this subject, it is necessary we should not rest in the ivord, fish, nor limit its signification to one kind of fish; nei- ther should we conclude that there is but one kind of fishers; for we know that there are various sorts, as pearl-fishers, coral-fishers, and fishers of water-'plants of different kinds, as well as of the animal fish. Now we shall not presume to decide which of these pursuits the disciples were engaged in, or whether Jesus did not call them away from their worldly .occupation of fishing, because we may not be possessed of all the evidence neceSSary to come to a correct conclusion : but we may be permitted to submit to the reader’s consideration a few facts which may be the means of furnishing reasonable ground for doubting whether feasting on salmon, by way of fasting from flesh, be quite consonant with the practice of Jesus and hisXII. INTRODUCTION. disciples. We learn from Numbers xi. 5, that when the Israelites murmured against Moses and wished to return to Egypt, they said, “ We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt freely; the cucumbers, and the melons* and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic.” Now, we are informed by Herodotus, that^sA was in his time very much used as food in Egypt, many families living entirely upon it: that it was sometimes used fresh, and sometimes roasted. Sometimes they dried it in the sun, then beat it small in a mortar, and after- wards sifted it through a piece of fine cloth ; and thus formed it into cakes as bread. This is the very mode in which the Egyptians now prepare the fo/os-plants : they dry them in the sun, roast or broil them ; then having parched the seed within the lotos, whose head resembles that of a poppy, they make bread of it. (See Beauties of Nature and Art displayed, vol. xii. p. 141)—Pococke says, that when he was in UpperEgypt, they told him there was a large fsh called lotos, which probably is the lotos that was so highly esteemed by the Egyptians. (See his Travels in Egypt, Pinkerton*s Coll. p. lxi. p, 333J—Water-melons are much eaten in warm climates, which being moist and cooling, are of course particularly grateful to the palate. These, and several other facts to the same purport which might be adduced, must, at least, lead us to doubt whether Jesus or his disciples did really eat animal fish. And especially, when we know that Parkhurst, in his Greek Lexicon, says, “ It seems not very natural to understand the Greek word, opsarion (John xxi. 9), as signify\ngflsh. It signifies some other kind of provision, of the delicious sort, that may be eaten with bread.” Indeed fish and honey do not seem to be very suitable^to be eaten to- gether. In addition to this evidence, if the reader will take the trouble to refer to Calmet’s Dictionary, he will find that “James and John were fishermen with £ebedee their fatherand yet “they never ate either fsh or flesh” From Josephus we learn that no animal fish will live in the Dead Sea, and yet the prophetINTRODUCTION* Xtll. Ezekiel speaks of an abundance of fishers who should fish on its borders. We should recollect also, that when the net brake, while the disciples were fishing, the fish did not escape! Taking these circumstances into con- sideration, and viewing the subject impartially and uninfluenced by prejudice or appetite, we shall perhaps be justified in maintaining that the scriptures, properly understood, do not sanction the eating of either fish or animal flesh; at all events, there is reasonable ground for our entertaining such an opinion, and the Apostle says “He that doubteth is condemned if he eat; for what- soever is not of faith is sin ” Thus we have endeavoured, as far as our limits will allow, to state the grounds on which the members of the Society of Bible-Christians abstain from animal food, which is done not only in obedience to the j)ivine command, but because it is an observance which, if more generally adopted, would prevent much cruelty, luxury, and disease, besides many other evils which cause misery in society. It would be productive of much good by promoting health, long life, and happi- ness;—and thus be a most effectual means of reforming mankind. It would entirely abolish that greatest of all curses. War; for those who are so conscientious as not to kill animals, will never murder human beings.—* On all these accounts the system cannot be too much recommended. The practice of abstaining cannot be wrong; it must therefore be some consolation to be on the side of duty. If we err, we err on the sure side;—- itisinnocent;—itis infinitely better authorized, and more nearly associated with religion, virtue, and humanity, than the contrary practice: And w'e have the sanction of the wisest and the best of men—of the whole Christian world for several hundred years after the commencement of the Christian era. It is in opposition to a practice manifestly brutal and savage; a practice which cannot answer any ends but those of luxury, disease, cruelty and oppression—ends of all others the most opposed to the true principles of Christianity, bxi r. INTRODUCTION. On the pernicious Effects of intoxicating Liquors. O madness ! to think use of strongest wines And strongest drink our chief support of health, When God, with these forbidden, made choice to rear His mighty champion, strong above compare, Whose drink was only from the liquid brook. Milton. The numerous and disgusting scenes of Drunken- ness which we daily behold, render it necessary that every effort should be made to stem, if possible, the torrent of this detestibie vice; or this once flourishing and happy country will become, ere-long, a general scene of poverty, crime disease and misery. If intem- perance must be patronised, it is quite in vain to erect places of worship, or to expect any thing but disap- pointment in attempting to diffuse religious knowledge among the inhabitants of Britain. The drinking of intoxicating liquors is the root of almost every evil in society; it is the parent of poverty, of diseases of all sorts, of feebleness of body and mind, and at last the drunkard departs from life regretted not even by friends, parents or brethren. It is also probable that more than half the crimes which bring men to an untimely end, are the fruit of strong drink. If, then, all this be true, what a tremendous collection of misery and mischief is to be ascribed to this single cause ! Poverty! Disease! Theft! Murder!—Can this be read without concern, or is it possible such depravity should be seen with indifference P Were murders committed by any other weapons, or were half the number of the families who might otherwise prove useful to the com- munity, as easily plunged into vice and ruin by any other means, is it possible that the professed ministers of the Gospel, or those who are clothed with civil authority should be unconcerned spectators of suchXV. INTRODUCTION. dreadful and enlarging scenes ofwickedness and misery P “Common humanity would prevent a single murder, and restrain the uplifted arm, that would administer one deadly potion, or that aimed a deadly weapon at one innocent at the breast. But what is a single murder compared to the many thousands that are annually sent out of the world, by a slowhut sure poison ? And among these, how many unoffending children and helpless babes, fall pitiable victims ?” In addition to this cata- logue of misery, it may be stated as a melancholy fact, that a very great proportion of the cases of insanity are caused by excessive drinking. It is high time, therefore, that something should be done: but what must that something be ? If the magistracy will do nothing to- wards even restraining the licentiousness of those nur- series of profligacy and crime the Public Houses; and if Government, in order to increase the revenue, continue to permit the bread of the people to be converted into poison, and retailed in those infamous recesses of wick- edness, the dram shops; what can be done P There remains only one effectual way of counteracting this evil, and that is, for all who call themselves Ministers of the Gospel, to strike at the root of this great sin, by setting an example of entire abstinence from every kind of intoxicating liquor, and using all their influence to induce their hearers to do the same ; then, and not till then, may we expect prosperity, health and happiness to be enjoyed by the people of this land. They must not suppose that by their merely recommending moderation, the evil can now be removed, or even abated; it is the moderate drinkers that keep the immoderate in counte- nance;—one says “ a glass or two will do you good;” —another, that “ a bottle now and then will do no man any harm;”—and a third contends that he cannot be considered a drunkard who does not get intoxicated more than once a week. So that it is impossible to draw the line, or to say in what moderation consists : but if the teachers of religion will shew by their exam- ple as well as by precept, that it is not necessary, inXVI. INTRODUCTION. any degree, to drink strong liquor, some good may possibly be effected. In order to adopt any system, it is desirable to see the practicability of it; in this case it is quite easy, as it requires no sacrifice from the young, and very little from those of more mature age. There only wants a beginning in the performance. It is the want of resolu- tion to begin that prevents the good ; for if once we begin in good earnest and from proper motives, we shall find the path so pleasant that we need never turn aside from it. It is very certain that strong liquors of every kind are hateful to the natural appetite; for children and young people, when they first taste them, discover all the marks of strong dislike; but by habit this dislike is overcome, and custom becomes a second nature. Sipping leads to drinking, and drinking to the beastly vice of drunkenness. Therefore, a child ought not to have strong drink presented to it, no more than it ought to have poison presented to it. It should not even see it, and, if possible, not hear of it, and the pernicious beverage ought never to gain ad- mittance to our dwellings. That intoxicating liquors are quite unnecessary to the support of the human body, every medical prac- titioner of any celebrity will not hesitate to admit; and nobody will deny that they are very expensive; for it is a fact, that one moderate dram-drinker con- sumes as much grain, in spirits, as would produce bread for forty people. Some persons imagine that strong liquors are essential to bodily strength. This false notion is partly grounded on the idea of a nutritious property in those liquors, and partly perhaps on a logical error in using the word strong, as being necessarily connected with strengthening the animal body. The first notion is entirely wrong, since it is proved by continual evi- dence, that strong liquors are inimical to animal life throughout the creation, and that no living animal or plant can be supported by such fluids, but that on theINTRODUCTION. Xvit* contrary, they all become sickly and perish under their influence. “I presume,’* says Dr. Carlyle, “that no man would give a lamb, a calf, a chicken, or a duck spirituous liquors, with a hope of rendering it sooner fat, even if such liquors were so cheap as to make it an economical process; yet many parents do this by their children” The fact is, there is neither strength nor nourishment in spirituous liquors; if they produce vigour in labour, it is of a transient nature, for there always succeeds a sense of weakness and fatigue. Look at the horse, with every muscle of his body swelled from morning till night in the plough or the team; does he make signs for spirits to enable him to cleave the earth or climb the hill? No.-r—He requires nothing but cool water and substantial food. It is the same with regard to human beings, and those men are capable of performing the greatest exploits in work, both as to their degree and duration, who never taste spirituous liquors.”—In confirmation of the above observation, Smollett, in his Travels in Italy, remarks, that “a porter in London quenches his thirst with a draught of strong beer; a porter of Rome or Naples refreshes himself with a slice of water-melon or a glass of iced water: now, it is commonly remarked that beer strengthens as well as refreshes; but the porters of Constantinople, who never drink any thing stronger than water, will carry a load of seven hundred weight, which is more than any English porter ever attempted to raise.” It should also be recollected that &msow,who is reputed the strongest man that ever lived, was a water-drinker. Another great and prevailing error is the supposing that spirituous liquors lessen the effects of cold upon the body. On the contrary, I maintain, says Dr. B. Rush, that they always render the body more liable to he affected and injured by cold. The temporary warmth they produce is always succeeded by chilliness. If any thing besides warm clothing and exercise is necessary to warm the body in cold weather, a plentiful meal ofxviii. INTRODUCTION. wholesome food is at all times sufficient for that purpose. The people of Lapland do not require strong drink to keep them warm, their drink being only water, and it is remarked by Linneus that they have very few diseases. We may, therefore, conclude with Hoffman, that “ water is the fittest drink for all persons of all ages and tem- peraments. By its fluidity and mildness, it promotes a free and equable circulation of the blood and humours through all the vessels of the body, upon which the due performance of every animal function depends; and hence water-drinkers are not only the most active and nimble, but also the most cheerful and sprightly of all people. — In sanguine complexions, water by diluting the blood, renders the circulation easy and uniform. In the choleric, the coolness of the water restrains the quick motion and intense heat of the humours. It attenuates the glutinous viscidity of the juices of the phlegmatic; and the gross earthiness which prevails in melancholic temperaments. And as to different ages; water is good for children, to make their tenacious milky diet thin and easy to digest; to youth and middle-aged, to sweeten and dissolve any scorbutic acrimony or sharpness that may be in the humours, by which means pains and obstructions are prevented; and for old people, to moisten and mollify their rigid fibres and to promote a less difficult circu- lation through their hard and shrivelled vessels.” In addition to the above facts and opinions, it may be observed, that many alterations take pi ace in the mind inconsequence of the influence of the bodily organs; and these latter are greatly influenced by the kind of aliment which the body receives. God knows what is in man and what is best for him; he has, therefore, graciously forbidden in his word, what would injure either body or mind, and commanded what is best calculated to he useful to both. An instance of which we find previous- ly to the birth of Samson: his parents were expressly commanded by the angel of the Lord not to drink wine or strong drink, that he might be filled with the HolyXlX. INTRODUCTION. Spirit from his birth; and it is said the Lord blessed him. It is also said of John the Baptist, “He shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother’s womb.”—Now these things, no doubt, are recorded for our use and instruction. Tak ing, then, into consideration,what has been advanced, any rational person must be convinced that the drinking of intoxicating liquor is injurious to both body and mind; that its effects in families are seen to be destructive of all social comfort; and its pernicious influence on the morals of the community is beyond what either the tongue can express or the pen describe. If, then, we value our health; if we wish to enjoy domestic comfort and see our children sober; if we have any regard even for the tem- poral prosperity and happiness of society in general, we shall never again suffer another drop of that baneful liquor to touch our lips. But when we consider that our own eternal happiness, and the eternal happiness of millions is at stake, it being declared in Holy Writ that not only drunkards cannot inherit the kingdom of heaven, but that without holiness no man can see the Lord, we must allow that abstinence from those things which are calculated to grieve or quench the Holy Spirit, becomes an important religious duty. Let us, therefore, humbly desire to live continually under the influence of the glorified Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, and attend to this apostolic exhortation: “Whe- ther ye eat or drink, or whatever ye do, do all to the glory of God.” Salford, Augutl 22nd. 1829.u -r - •*’ > ' ' : ' 1 > . - T»<! !f *: ■ ft A* > f. ;n •?» • » ‘ <i ; »' » faiij : :1< 'ii> <\v.H yds ftfctifpi ?• ' W<V, ■'.’{■ i<u m£f n ,» :*> i: o i ort :• JfJ • 1 : * vr;r ?< MrtuO r'Nfto*i > f»j;v . ; I; roll'* » /. r M*>;] . .. • : vrf/ ' \ ‘ ■ 1 «■» 1 • MSMl itf&tYAg Iftyt fMif to tfWw: -* dtmvyily^.iloUoqn -tit!! •■ oi) • 1 ..; ■ ; Ha o') .-)J '/ wv * tori w *w ,v k> . / inrO 11 I . ’J wmKi "J... ; j . ru ? .« I IprivV ■1 VEGETABLE COOKERY. Sleep a quart of split pease all night in so ft water, put them into a pan with four quarts of water, let them boil gently till the pease are perfectly tender, then pulp them through a sieve, return the soup into the pan, with the addition of two turnips, one large carrot sliced, a iittle celery, leeks, thyme, sweet marjoram, three onions, and a few pepper corns; when sufficiently stewed, strain and add Catsup and salt. Serve it up with fried or toasted bread, cut in small squares. 2. Pease Soup. Roil pease, turnips, carrots celery, onions, leeks and some sweet herbs in a proportionate quantity of water. When sufficiently tender, strain them through a colander ; then lake a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, brown it, and add it to the soup, with two or three spoonfuls of catsup. Add some sliced turnips, carrots, leeks, and let- tuce. after being stewed till tender. Season with pepper and salt. To make it green, bruise some spinage, and strain some juice into the soup when about to be removed from the lire. SOUPS, &c. 1. Pease Soup. Asoups, &c. 5 % 3. White Pease Soup. Take half a pint of whole white pease, four large onions, a handful of sweet nerbs, one head of celery, four leeks, one parsnip, one carrot, one turnip, three cloves, and two or three leaves of mace, and boil them in three quarts of water. When boiled down to two quarts, rub the in- gredients through a sieve, and put the soup again upon the fire, with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Having beaten three eggs into a pint of cream, put them gradually into the soup, which must not be suffered to boil, if agreeable, some fried spinage and bread may be added. 4. Pease Soap. Take a pint of whole pease, one carrot, half a small Savoy cabbage, two heads of celery, some whole black pepper, a bundle of sweet herbs, and two onions, with as much water as will make three quarts of soup. Boil these un- til the pease become perfectly tender, w hen they should be rubbed through a colander 'fake two large handfuls of spinage, scald it, and beat it in a marble mortar, and rub it through a sieve Take some lettuces, a little mint, four small green onions, or leeks, not slu ed too small, and a little celery. Put these into a sauce-pun with half a pound of butter and a little flour. Let them sU w till ten- der ; then put the spinage and the herbs into thesoup*, and let them boil till sufficiently interpolated. A few heads of asparagus will greatly improve the soup. 5. Green Pease Soup. Take a quart of old green pease, and put them into two quarts of water, with a sprig or two of mint. Boil till the pease become very soft, then pulp them through a sieve. Put the pulp and water into a stew-pan, with a pint of young pease, two or three cucumbers cut into thick square pieces, lettuce-stalks sliced, with the leaves cut oiT. Put to them a few ounces of butter mixed with potato flour. Salt and pepper to the taste. Boil gently or rather sim- mer over the fire. If not sufficiently grsen, add to thesobps, &t\ 3 sou’ three spoonfuls of spiuage-juice a few minutes before it is served up. 6f Green Pease Soup. In shelling’ the pease, separate the old from the young, and to a quart of old pease put a pint of water, an ounce of butter, a lettuce, two onions, pepper and salt, stew them till quite tender, pulp them through a sieve; then add two quarts more of water, the hearts and tender stalks of lettuces, the young pease, and a handful of spinage cut Sinai 1 ; stew them till quite soft. If the soup be too thin, or not rich enough, a little flour and butter may bo added and boiled up in it Have ready a little boiled mint and parsley to put in when you serve it up. 7. Green Pease Soup. To three pints of well grown pease put three quarts of water, a little salt, and a piece of white bread, let them boil till theyjbre quite soft, then pulp them through a sieve; stew three or four lettuces, and three onions sliced, with half a pound of butter, put all together and let it boil ; season with pepper and salt, add a little chopped parsley, have ready a pint of young pease, separately boiled, to put in just before you serve it up. S. Green Pease Soup. To a gallon of water put a quart of full grown pease, three onions, a head of celery, one carrot, a turnip, a sprig of mint, and a few pepper corns. Let them boil till the in- gredients become quite soft, ami afjter being strained and pressed through a hair sieve, put into a stew-pan some cucumber that has been previously fried, and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour; when the butter is melted, pour it and the cucumber together into the soup, with a pint of young pease. Stew all together till the soup is of a proper thickness, taking care to stir it veiy often. Serve it up hot.4 SOUPS, &c. 9. Gicen Pease Soup with Milk. Take as much milk as you want soup, when it boils put in green pease, and boil them till quite soft; then pulp them through a Coarse sieve, and add butter worked with a little flour; pepper and salt to the taste. If the pease be not too old, the soup will be very good without being passed through a sieve. 10. Green Pease Soup. Flour and fry in butter a quart of green pease, four onions, a carrot, a turnip, and a parsnip, then pour ow them three quarts of water: let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve. Then boil in it the best of some celery cut thin, adding a little flour and butter, pepper and salt to the taste, also a little chopped parsley. II. Green Pease Soup, with Rice. Put two quarts of old pease into a stew-pan with a few spoonfuls of water, two or three sliced onions, one carrot, a turnip, and a head of celery. Stew these together for the space of fifteen minutes, taking care that the ingre- dients do not burn. Then add, by degrees, the required quantity of water, with a spoonful or two of catsup, till all the vegetables have become so tender as to he rubbed through a coarse sie\e; season to the taste ; and add to the soup when strained a large handful of spinage, sepa- rately boiled, and rubbed through along with the pease and other ingredients. The soup being so far prepared, add to it four or five spoonfuls of rice boiled very tender ; then take five or six yolks of eggs, and after beatinu them with about half a pint of cream, strain through a sieve, and mix it with the soup, stirring it abont half a minute, without permitting it to boil, as in that case it would in- stantly curdle.—Should it be thought too rich, the egg* and cream may be omitted. 12. Asparagus Soup. Make this in the same way as green pease soup, with tire*> sot’PS, &.C. tender green part of asparagus, cut in sir all pieces, re- serving a part of it to put in after the soup is strained, with tried bread cut in small squares. 13. Dried Green Pease Soup. To one quart of dried green pease put three quarts of soft water, four onions sliced, floured and fried in fresh but- ter, the coarse stalk of celery, one carrot, a turnip, and a parsnip, with some whole pepper and a little mace; these must stew gently till they will pulp through a sieve, have ready a handful of beets and some of the root sliced, some celery and spinage, which must be first blanched aud stewed tender in the strained liquor; when the soup is ready, add the third of a pint: of spinage-juice, which must be stirred in very cautiously, for if it be suf- fered to boil it will curdle.; a crust of bread aud some tops of asparagus may be added. 14. Gray Pease Soup. To five quarts of water put two of pease, three large onions, two heads of celery, some crust of bread, a little thyme, and some sage, let it boil three hours, then strain it through a cloth, thicken with flour and butter, give it another boil, have ready some fried onions and sage rub- bed tine, some salt and pepper, and pour the soup over tneai and serve it up. 15. A good and cheap Pease Soup. Steep a quart of pease in soft water twelve hours, pnt them in a stew pot with six quarts of water, cover the pot close and set it in the oven, let them stew till quite soft, stirring them frequently ; then rub them through a coarse sieve or colander, return the soup into the stew pot, and put iu a handful of chopped parsley, some leeks, onions, aud beets coarsely chopped, pepper and salt to the taste ; let them stew together an hour, then work a table-spoon- ful of flour with six. ounces of butter, stir it in the soup till the butter is melted; let it boil, then serve it up with toasted bread cut in small squares. A 26 SOUPS, &1C. 16. Pease Soup. To a quart of split pease or three' p uts ;>f whole pease;, take two Jarge carrots sliced, four or I, ve good sized tur- nips, six onions, and the outside stalks of two heads of celery made very clean, a crust of bread, and a handlnf of salt, put them in a stew-pot that will hold twelve quarts, fill it up with soft water, (steam water is prefer- able), cover it with a plate, and tie a paper over it; set it in the oven all night; slice two turnips, one carrot, the while part of the celery, and two onions, or a few sweet leeks, melt two ounces of butter in a sauce-pan, and stew the vegetables in it with about a tea-cup full of water till quite soft, then pass the soup through a coarse sieve or colander, mashing the vegetables, and pressing tliem with a wooden spoon, then put the soup into a pan with the stewed vegetables, salt and pepper, and two ounces more of butter with a little flour worked in it, stir it till the butter is melted, and when it boils it will be ready for use Serve it up with thin toasts of bread. A little mint dried and powdered may be added. 17. Pease Soup. Pu* a quart of pease in a pan with some butter, a handful of parsley, a few eschalots, and some salt, shake them well over the lire till half done, then cover the pan and let them steam half an hour, stirring them occasionally. When the pease are soft crush them in a bowl or marble mortar, and pulp them through a sieve When ready to serve, mix the pulp with a soup of vermicelli or rice, made in the common way. 18. Pease Broth. Steep half a pint of split pease in clean soft water a few hours; take them out and set them on the fire with three quarts of water, adding an onion, a large carrot, and one or two turnips sliced, also the outside stalks of celery, a crust of bread, or a little rice, pepper and salt to the taste. When the vegetables are quite tender, strain it through a7 soups, &e. hair sieve; return it into tbe pan, and have ready a lilt!* chopped parsley, sweet leek, and the white part of celery, let it boil up a few minutes, and you will have some ex- cellent broth. If required, a little flour and butter may be mixed together and stirred in, before it is takeu off the fire. 19. Potato Soup. Slice six onions, six heads of celery, and ten or twelve moderate sized potatoes ; put quarter of a pound of but- ter into a stew-pan with a little vegetable broth, let it boil slowly half an hour, then add three or four quarts of boiling vegetable broth, boil or simmer gently half ah iiour longer till the potatoes are dissolved, then rub it through a sieve, and season to the taste; when it boils up again take it off the fire, and add a pint of cream that has been boiled. 20. Herb Soup. Melt five ounces of butter in a stew-pan with a little flour and water, when hot, slice into it four good sized onions, and shake the pan well over the tire for five minutes; cut very small two or three roots of Celery, two handfuls of spinage, a cabbage lettuce, and a bunch of parsley; put them into the pan with the onions. Set it over the fire till the vegetables are well done, stirring them pretty often; then mix in a little flour, Cayenne pepper, salt, some crusts of stale white bread, and two quarts of boil- ing water ; stir the whole well together, and let it stew half an hour Before you serve it up, add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and a spoonful of vinegar, but do not let it boil again. The green part of asparagus is a pleasant addition, cut into the soup with the other vegetables. 21. Another Soup. Take four ounces of butter, cut in pieces and put in a stew-pan, set it over the fire to brown a little, then fak»* SOUPS, &c. three or four onions sliced, three heads of celery, two handfuls of spinage, a small cabbage, two or three tur- nips, two cabbage-lettuces, parsley, pepper, and salt to your taste; stew these gently about half an hour, then put to them two quarts of water, let them simmer till the roots become quite tender, when any part of them may be taken out, and the remainder served up in the soup. 22. Another. Take some middling-sized onions, a few lettuces cut small, two heads of celery, and one turnip; slice them very thin, and fry them in quarter of a pound of butler till they are brown. Put them in a pan with lour quarts of boiling water, pepper, salt, mace, and two French rolls ; boil all together till the bread is reduced to a pulp; then strain through a hair sieve, and set it again on the fire, skim it well, and thicken it with the yolks of three eggs. When sent to table add fried or toasted bread cut small. 23. Vegetable Soup. Put quarter of a pound of butter in a pan, set it on the fire, and shake it round till melted ; put in six sliced onions and shake the pan well for two or ihree minutes; add two heads of celery, two handfuls of spinage, or a little chervil, some pot marjoram, two cabbage lettuces cut small, and some parsley ; shake the pan well over the fire ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, and some crusts of bread; let it boil gently for an hour; add Cayenne pepper and salt to the taste. 24 White Soup. Put into a clean pan three quarts of water, the crumb of a two-penny loaf, with a handful of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, two or three cloves, an onion sliced, and a little salt; let it boil till it is quite smooth, ke< ping it covered ; take the white part of celery, endive, and lettuce, and two turnips, cut them in pieces, not too small, boil them well, strain the soup off into a clean pan, put in the! st ups, &c. 9 vegetables with a good piece of butter stirred iu it till melted, then let it boil till very smooth, skim it, soak a small roll (rasped) in a little of the broth, put it in the tureen, and pour the soup over it. 25. Onion Soup. Melt half a pound of butter in a stew-pan, shake it well on the fire till it has done hissing, slice in six middling sized onions, and keep shaking the pan over the fire five or six minutes; add four heads of celery cut small, a handful of spinage, a cabbage lettuce, and some parsley, all finely shred; stir these well in the pan twenty minutes, adding a little flour, and pour two quarts of boiling water into it, with some stale crusts of bread, a little beaten mace, pepper, and salt; stir all together, and let it boil gently three quarters of an hour, then take it off the fire, and stir iu two well-beaten yolks of eggs aud a spoonful of vinegar, and it will be fit for use. 26. Brown Onion Soup. Pare and slice ten large onions, fry them in butter till they are a nice brown and very tender, then lay them in a sie\ e to drain out the butter; when drained put them in a pan with five quarts of boiling water, boil them one hour, and stir them often, then add pepper and salt to your taste ; rub the crumbs of a penny-loaf through a colander, put it lo the soup, stir it well, and boil it two hours more ; ten minutes before you serve it up, beat the yolks of two eggs with two spoonfuls of vinegar and a little of the soup, pour it in by degrees, stirring it all the time one way, but do uot let it boil. 27. Cucumber Soup. Pare and slice five or six cucurubers, and add to them the inside of as many coss-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, three onions, pepper aud sail; and a little parsley, put them with four ounces of butter into a pan, to stew in their own liquor near a gentle fire three quarters of an10 soups, &e. hoar; then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegeta- bles, and stew them two hours ; dust a little dour into a tea-cupful of water, stir it into the soup, and boil it fif- teen or twenty minutes longer, then serve it up. 2$. Brown Soup. Take a small piece of butter and put it over the fire in a clean iron pan ; put to it a few spoonfuls of wheat or oat- meal; stir the whole about briskly with a broad wooden spoon till the batter is melted and the meal be uniformly of a deep brown colour; great care being required by stirring it continually, to prevent the meal being burned in the pan. A very small quantity of this roasted meal (perhaps half an ounce) would be sufficient to be put into a sauce-pan, and boiled with a pint and a quarter of w'ater, and forms a portion of soup, which, w hen seasoned with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and eaten with bread cut small and mixed with it the moment it is served up, makes a palatable kind of food This soup may be made in a short time, a few minutes being sufficient for boiling it. 2d. Brown Soup Put into a clean pan three quarts or more of water with raspings of bread to thicken it, about a small lea-cupful to a quart, two or three onions sliced, some whole pepper and salt, cover it clos<* and boil it an hour and half; straiu it through a sieve; cut some celery, endive, lettuce, spinage, and any other herbs you like, fry them in butter, put a piece of butter with a little flour into a pan, set it on the fire, stirring it till of a fine brown, then put in the herbs and soup, boil it till the herbs are tender, and the soup of a proper thickness; serve it up iu a tureen, with fried bread cut in dice. 30. Spring Soup. Take a pint of young pease, some chervil, sorrel, young green onions, parsley, lettuces, spring carrots and turnips sliced, stew them in some butter and a few spoonfuls of11 SOUPS, &c. water till tender ; when done pulp it through a sieve, and- ndtl what quantity of water you like ; season with pepper, mace, and suit. v 31. Herb Soup. Grate about half a pound of white bread, put it in a pan with two quarts of water, let it boil till it is of a proper thickness ; fry or stew in bin ter a good handful of spiriage, some parsley, and a little green onion, dredging them with a little flour; put them in the soup with pepper and salt to the taste ; boil ail up together. 32. Herb Soup. Take a crust of bread and about quarter of a pound of fresh butter, put them into a soup-pot or stew-pan, with a good quantity of herbs as beet, sorrel, leeks, chervil, let- tuce, and purslain, ail washed clean, and coarsely chop- ped, put to them two quarts of water, and let them stew till reduced to one half, when it will be fit for use. 33 Hop-top Soup. Take a large, quantity of hop-tops, about April or the beginning of May, when in the greatest perfection, tie them twenty or thirty in a bunch, lay them in spring water an hour or two, drain them well, and put them into some thin pease soup ; boil them well, and add three spoonfuls of the juice of onions, some pepper and salt, let them boil some' tuna longer; when done, soak some crusts of bread in the broth, lay them in the tureen, and pour in the soup.—This is a plain, but very good soup. 34 Barley Soup. Five and a half ounces of barley, five ounces of pease, eighte* n ounces of potatoes, five and a half ounces of Crusts of bread, salt and vinegar to the taste ; water in proportion to the consistency most palatable. This soup may be improved, if necessary, by frying the bread in ,niter, by which it is not only rendered much harder.sorps, kc. 12 bat being impregnated with an oily substance, remains hard after put into the soup The bread may be cut in pieces the size of large pease, or in thin slices ; and after it is fried, it may be put into the dish, and the soup poured on when it is served. This soup may likewise be im- proved, by mixing with it various kinds of roots and green vegetables, as turnips, carrots, parsnips, celery, cab- bages, sour-crout, &c., as also by seasoning it with heibs and black pepper. 3o A very good and cheap Soup. Take turnips, carrots, brocoli, celery, onions, potatoes, cabbage or lettuce, a proportionate quantity of each, slice them, and put them in a pan wiih pepper and salt, and a proper quantity of soft water ; let it boil two hours, then strain the liquor through a hair sieve, and return it into the pan; take out all the stringv and hard part of the vegetables, and mash the remainder to a pulp in a bowl, pass it through the sieve, and return it into the pan, add, ing an oatcake toasted and cut in pieces and a little flour and butter mixed together ; boil it two hours longer, acid, ing any kind ot pot herbs to the taste. 36. Egg Soup. Break the yolks of two eggs into a dish with a piece of butter the size of an egg; take a tea-kettle of boiling water in one hand, and a wooden spoon in the other, pour in about a quart by degrees, stir it ail the time till the eggs are well mixed and the butter melted ; then put it in a saucepan, set it on the fire, and continue stirring it till it begins to simmer; then take it off the fire and ponr it between two vessels, out of one into the other, till it be quite smooth, and have quite a froth; season it, set it on the fire again, and keep stirring it till it be quite hot, it ii then ready for serving up. 37. Turnip Soup. Pare six or seven turnips, put them into a gallon of water.13 &OUPS, &e. with some white pepper, an onion with a few cloves stuck in it, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mace, and a large crust of bread ; let them boil an hour and a half; strain it through a sieve; take three heads of celery cut into small pieces, put them in with two raw turnips, and two young carrots cut in pieces, cover them close and Jet them .stew ; cut some turnips and carrots in dice, flour and try them brown in butter, with two large onions cut thin, put them into the soup with an ounce of vermicelli, let all stew till the celery is tender and the soup good: add salt to the taste. 38. Carrot Soup. Take twelve carrots, and after scraping them clean, rasp them to the core, which must not he used; four heads of celery cut small, two large onions and a handful ofspinage shred, a little sorrel, or juice of lemon, and a few pepper- corns. Stew these in quarter of a pound of butter over a stove very slowly, stirring them till the roots and herbs become soft, then pour in time pints of water with the soft part of a roll, boil till the bread has become very soft, then strain through a sieve. Put the soup when strained igto a saucepan, boil it slowly, and skier, it frequently. A soup prepared in this manner should be about the thickness of cream. 39. Carrot Soup Slice six large carrots into a stewr-pan with quarter of a pound of -butter and two heads of celery ; grate the red part only of six large carrots, put it in the pan with a pint of water over a slow fire, let it simmer an hour, then add two quarts more water, and a little catsup and butter if requisite, and the crumbs of two rolls ; let it boil quarter pf an hour, tin n rub it through a sieve, return it into tine pan and make it hot, hut do not let it boil. 40. Spinacje Soup. Shred two handfuls of spinage, a turnip, two onions, two carrots, a head of celery, a little thyme and parsley. Put14 SOUPS, &c. all into a stew-pot with a little butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of vegetable broth, stew till the vegetables are quite tender; work them through a sieve with a wooden spoon, return the soup into the stew-pot or a pan, and add a quart of water, pepper and salt; boil all together and it will be ready for use. The green part of asparagus boiled a little, and cut about the size of pease, is a great improvement. 41. Soup made at Iver, in Bucks. Take two gallons and a half of water, a quart of split pease, previously soaked for twenty-four hours, two pounds of potatoes which have been well boiled, skinned and mashed the day before, herbs, salt, pepper, and two onions; boil them very gently together for five hours, covering it closely up, and allowing as little evaporation or steam from it as possible; then set it by to cool. It will produce rather better than two gallons of soup, and, if properly made, there will be no sediment, but the whole will be blended and mixed together, when it is warmed for use. 42. Kidney Bean Soup. Take a handful of sorrel, chervil, and a lettuce; wash and drain them in a sieve, chop them very fine, and put them in a saucepan. Boil quarter of a peck of white kid- ney beans, and with the broth moisten the herbs ; rub one half of the beans through a sieve and mix w ith the soup ; when it has boiled a few minutes add the yolks of four eggs and qnarter of a pound of fresh butter; season to the taste, and pour it on bread cut small. 43. Potato Soup. Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, six carrots, and four turuips ; stew them in quarter of a pound of but- ter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling water, adding some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt; stew it all gently four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth ; have ready some onions, celery, and sage, to your laste; mix a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil itsoups, &c. 15 ftith the soup fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve it up. 44. A Common French Soup. Put some thin slices of toasted bread or dry crusts in a Soup-dish, moisten them with boiling- vegetable broth, when soaked, add as much more broth as will make the bread swim easily, but do not boil the bread with the broth. Herbs or stewed vegetables may be added. 45 Vermicelli Soup. Blanch six ounces of good vermicelli by setting it on the lire m coid water, let it boil up, then strain it off and put it into cold water, for if left to strain hot it becomes lumpy, drain it quite dry from the cold water, adding as much milk or thin cream as you want soup, and let it boil; to two quarts of soup take six yoiks of eggs, beat them very well, and add by degrees a pint of boiled cream, strain it through a sieve, and add a spoonful of catsup, take the soup off* the fire and stir in the eggs and cream, put it on the fire again, stirring it till it is ready to boil, then take it otf‘ again, and add a small lump of sugar and some salt- 46. Another Vermicelli Soup. Put as much vegetable broth, strained through a lawn seive, into a pan as you want soup* boil it, and put in your vermicelli prepared as in the preceding receipt, let it boil quarter of an hour, then take it off the fire that it may not be too much broken> and that the soup may be clear and not too thick. 47. Cheese Soup. Take about half a pound of bread crumbs, sifted through a colander, and quarter of a pound of grated Swiss or Par- mesan cheese, simmer them together in a stew-pan with some vegetable broth, until the bread and cheese are well Stewed. Mix three or four yolks of eggs in a saucepansoups, &e. 16 with as many spoonsful of broth, stir it over a slow tirey or stove, till well mixed, without boiling; when the soup* is taken oft' the tire, stir in the egg, and serve it up imme- diately, with toasted bread on a dish in small squares. Add pepper and salt, or any other seasoning, according to the taste. 48. An Excellent Soup. Melt half a pound of Butter very slowly, aud put to it four onions sliced, a head of celery, and a carrot cut in pieces; fry them in the butter quarter of an hour, till they are quite browned on ail sides, put them in a soup-pan with lour quarts of boiling water, a pint aiid a half of young pease, with some black and Jamaica pepper-corns. When the vegetables are quite tender, let the soup stand to clear, then strain it into a clean pan : when it boils, add to it three onions sliced thin, a head of celery, carrots sliced, and some small thick squares of turnip, or turnip radishes, and a little Cayenne. When the vegetables are tender, the soup is finished. Serve it up in the usual way. 49. Rice SdVpL Wash half a pound of rice several times in warm watetv rubbing it well, then wash it in cold water, set it on the fire with two quarts of vegetable broth, and let it boil (stirring it frequently) till the rice is quite tender; add more of the broth as required; raelf a piece of butter mixed with a little flour in a saucepan, adding- a few spoonsful of the broth ; when boiled take it off the fire, and have ready a little boiled parsley chopped fine, and the yolks of two eggs well beaten, stir them in the butter, &c., mix all together in tire soup, and serve it up im- mediately. N. B. When the yolks of eggs are added to soups, they should not be suffered to boil afterwards. 50. Rice and Lentil Soup. First make a good vegetable broth with cabbages, turnip*SOUPS, &C. 17 onions, carrots, parsnips, sweet leeks, and celery, of each in proportion to its strength, adding half a pint of pease. While the soup is preparing put half a pint of lentils into a small pan, and stew them in a little water or vegetable broth; When soft, pulp them through a sieve. Wash quarter of a pound of rice very clean, and stew it with a piece of butter and some of the vegetable broth strained quite clear; when it is ready, add to it the lentil cullis or pulp, and season it well. If too thick put in some more of the broth. Add seasoning to the taste. 51 * Another Soup. Melt quarter of a pound of butter in a pan that will hold three quarts* fill it about half full with carrots and tur- nips cut into pieces rather larger than dice; set them mi the fire for a quarter of an hour, shaking them well frequently; tnen add as much water as will nearly fill the saucepan, and after letting it stew for an hour slice in three large onions, and put in a little rice ; »tew it together two hours longer; about quarter of an hour be- fore served up, stir in a tea-cupful of the raspings of bread, some salt, and Cayenne pepper. These preparations are best done over a small charcoal fire, taking particular care that they stew very gently, 52. iSavoy Soup. Take four good-sized Savoy cabbages, cut them in quar- ters and about half boil them, strain the water off, and when they are cool squeeze them as dry as possible, then put them into a pan with as much vegetable broth as will cover them, set them covered close on a moderate fire and let them stew two hours , melt quarter of a pound of butter in a frying-pan, with a little flour, stirring it till it is a fine brown, then put in two onions sliced, aud when they are fried a nice brown., pour in two quarts of vegetable broth, let it stew a few minutes, then pour it into the soup-pan, lay some crusts of French roll in the dish or tureen, and pour the soup noon them. B 218 SOUPS, &c.' 53. Green Bean Soup. Boil some beans when they begin to be mealy, skin and bruise them in a bowl or marble mortar till quite smooth, put them in a pan with some vegetable broth, quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, pepper and salt to the taste. Boil some parsley and spinage, rub it through a sieve into the soup to make it a nice green. Serve it up with fried or toasted bread. Other vegetables-, such as leeks, onions, lettuces, turnips, and celery, may be added if approved. 54. Chesnut Soup. Cut two carrots, a parsnip, a root of celery, and throe sweet leeks into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with three onions sliced, half a clove of garlic, two cloves, and a piece of butter ; shake them over the fire till they are a little, brown, without letting them burn; add some water, and boil them an hour, then strain the broth through a sieve, and season it with salt. Take a hundred large chesnuts, or a hundred and fifty small ones, strip oft’ the outward skin and put them over the fire in an iron pan, shaking them constantly till the second skin comes off;, when they are picked quite clean, stew them with some of the broth, then bruise and pulp them through a sieve, moistening them with the broth they were stewed in ; heat the remainder of the broth, and when ready to serve mix the other into it. 55. Milk Soup, with Almonds. Take two quarts of new milk, some cinnamon, half a dozen bitter almonds, a little salt, and a very little sugar, boil them together on a moderate fire; blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a marble mor- tar, mix a little milk with them by degrees, then put them in a saucepan on the fire with a little grated lemon- peel and a little lemon-juice, then pass it through a coarse sieve and mix it ’with the milk in the soup-pan and let it boil up. Cut some slices of French roll and dry them19 softps, &c. before the fire, soak them a little in the milk, lay them at the bottom of the tureen, and pour in the soup. 56. Milk Sviipt Boil a pint of milk, with a little salt, and, if approved, sugar; lay some sliced bread in a dish; pour over it a part of your milk to soak it, fand keep it hot, taking care that it do not burn. Beat up the yolks of five eggs, and add them to the remainder of the milk just when you are going to serve it up. Or. boil three pints of milk, with a hit of lemon-peel and cinnamon, a few coriander seeds, a little salt, and about three ounces of sugar, till it is reduced to one half; strain it through a sieve, and finish your soup as before. 57. Bread Soup. Put a quart of water on the fire, with as much dry crust of bread cut to pieces as the top of a roll, (the drier the better), and a bit of butter. Boil and beat it with a spoon, keep it boiling till the bread and w ater is mixed ; season it with salt. It is very good for a weak stomach. 58. Pumpkin, or Gourd Soup. There is a method of making a soup with this fruit, which by many is considered both wholesome and agreeable. Take a pumpkin that is moderately ripe, and not too large, pare off the thick rind, and take out all the soft pulp, using only the solid part; cut it into small square pieces, and fry them in butter till brown, seasoning them with salt. Boil three pints of milk, then add to it the fried pumpkin, season it with pepper, and more salt, rf required, (a little turnip, onion, and celery may be added), let it stew gently till soft, then lay some toasted bread in a dish, and pour the soup over it. 59. Scotch Broth. Take four ounces of Scotch or pearl barley, a few groats, a stale crust ofbread, four ounces of butter, two quarts of water, boil them one hour and a half, then take twosows, &c. so turnips, and two carrots, cut them small, boil them, keep adding a little water as it boils; then take either pot-herbs or greens cut small, boil all up together; add salt before you put in your greens. 60. English Broth. Take two quarts of water, four ounces of butter, a stale crust of bread, a veiy few groats, or a little rice, boil them one hour* adding a little more water, two or three carrots, rasp and boil them well, with thyme, leeks, and celerv, toast your bread, and pour it on. A little catsup may be added. 61. Vegetable Broth. Half fill a pan with whatever vegetables are most ap- proved, and some seasoning herbs, add water nearly to fill the pan, and let it boil till the vegetables are tender, then strain it off, and keep it for use as wanted. It will not keep more than two days, and the fresher it is used the better. It is much used by the French in making soups. 62. Bretois. Cut some bread in thin slices, (toasted if preferred), pour some boiling water upon tliem, and cover the basin with a plate, let it stand a few minutes, then stir in a lump of fresh butter ; add salt to the taste. Oat-cake cut in pieces is Very good in brewis. 63. Pease Porridge., Put a quart of green pease, a small buudleof dried mint, and a little salt, into a quart of water; let them boil till the pease are quite tender, then put in pepper and a little butter (the size of a walnut) rolled in flour, stir all to- gether, and let it boil a few minutes ; add two quarts of milk, and let it boil quarter of an hour longer ; take ont the mint, and serve it up. Water or vegetable broth may be used instead of milk, if preferred.Sofip's, &c. 21 64, Onion Porridge fcut about a dozen middling-sized onions into slips, put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter ; stew them Over the fire till they fcre done enough, and lightly co- loured, stirring them frequently, moisten them with some water or vegetable broth ; add salt and pepper, boil it two minutes, and afterwards simmer it a little, with some thin slices of bread toasted and put in. 65. Celery- Porridge. Cut some celery and endive small, and stew them well in' some vegetable broth; when quite tender add a little butter browned, and a little flour if requisite, stew them ten minutes longer, and serve it up with fried sippets of bread, or a slice of toast laid at the bottom of the dish. 66. Soup Herb Powder, or Vegetable Relish. Take dried parsley, winter savoury, sweet mafjoram, lemon thyme, of eafch two ounces lemon-peel cut very thiff and dried, sweet bagfl, ah ounce of each ; 6ne drachni of celery seed. Dry them in a clean Dutch oven, but not too quick; when quite dry, powder them very fine, and sift the powder through a fine hair sieve; stop it close in a bottle, and it will retain its flavour some months. 67. Savoury Powder. Salt one ounce, mustard half an ounce, mace and cloves together quarter of an ounce, white pepper ground, aud lemon-peel grated, half an ounce each, grated nutmeg quarter of an ounce, prepared ginger three drachms, Cayenne pepper two drachms; pound the mixture together Very well,-and pass it through a fine hair sieve, aud bottle it for use. The above articles will pound easier and finer, if dried in a Dutch oven at a good distance from the fire.' Zest, a vegetable powder, prepared by the late Dr. Kitchener, is an excellent seasoning for soups, gravies, he. he.sows, kc. Any of these soaps may be varied at pleasure^ by changes amongst the vegetables. Those of our culture the best suiteti to the purpose, both of the larger vegeta- bles and herbs for seasoning, are. Asparagus' Beet-leaves, green and white Basil Carrots Leeks Lettuce Lemmon-Thyme Marigold Marjoram Mint Onions Parsnips Eschalots Pease Celery Cucumbers ChiveS Endive Fennel Hamburgh Parsley Pennyroyal Potatoes Purslaint Salsify Sorrel 8 p mage W inter- Savoury Tarragon Thyme Tomatoes Ttt.nipsOMELETS, FRITTERS, &c. Omelet should be fried in a small frying-pan made for that purpose, with a small quantity of butter. One of the great errors in cooking an omelet, is, that it is too tnin ; consequently, instead of being moist, the substance is little better than a piece of fried leather, therefore only use half the whites that you do yolks of eggs ; every care must betaken in trying, not to have too hot a fire, that it be not over-done, as much care should be taken as in poaching an egg. The objection to an omelet is that it is too rich: an addition of some finely mashed potatoes, about two table- spoonfuls to an omelet of six eggs, will much lighten it. Omelets are often served with gravy; but, as a general principle, no substance which has been fried, should be served in gravy, but accompanied by it; or what ought to eat crisp, becomes soddened and flat. In compounding the gravy, great care should be taken that the flavour does not overcome that of the omelet, a thing too little attended to ; a fine grai y with a flavour- ing of sweet herbs and onions, is perhaps the best; gra- vies to omelets are in general thickened; this should be done with potato flour or arrow-root. Dr. Kitchener. 68. Receiptfor the common Omelet. Five or six eggsw ill make a good-sized omelet: break them into a basin, beat them well with a fork, and add a salt- spoonful of salt; have ready chopped a small quantity of sweet leeks or green onions, and a little parsley, beat it well up with the eggs, then take three ounces of butter, break half of it in little bits and put it in the omelet, and24 OMELETS, FLUTTERS, &£. the other half into a very clean small firing-pan ; when it is melted, pour in the omelet and stir it with a spoon till it begins to set, then turn it up round the edges, and when it is of a fine light brown it is done. The safest way to take it out is to put a warm plate over the omelet, and turn the pan upside down ; serve it up on a hot dish : it should never be done till just wauled, 69. Omclef. Take five pr six eggs, beat them well; add one onion cut small, two table-spoonsful of bread crumbs, and a little sage ; mix all together, and season with pepper and salt, frv it either the size of the pan, or in fritters : slice three or four onions, fry them and Jay them round the omelet, serve them up with brown gravy. 70. Omelet. Take beet, or spinage and parsley, a good handful, a little leek and lemon-thyme, chop them all together, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, mix it up with a large spoonful of flour and four spoonsful of milk, then beat up three or four eggs and put in, and just before you put it in the oven, melt two ounces of butter and mix with it: twenty minutes will bake it in a quick oven. 71. Omelet. Make a thin batter of eggs, milk, and a little flour ; add to it chopped parsley, a little sweet leek, or a small quan- tity of eschalot, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; melt some butter in a flat dish, and pour the batter into it: bake it in a quick oven. 72. Omelet. Melt two ounces of butter in a dish, add six well beaten eggs, with a little bread crumbled very fine, stiew a little parsley over, chopped small, season with pepper and salt, and bake it in a quick oven ; serve it up with brown gravy; a little asparagus is a great improvement, keep.25 OMELETS, FRITTERS, &C. ing the water that the asparagus was boiled in for making your gravy. 73. Omelet. Break any number of eggs, and beat them well with some salt and pepper; melt some butter in a frying-pan on a slow fire, put in the eggs and fly the omelet a fine brown; it must not be turned in the pan, fold one half over the other and lay it on a hot dish the brown side outward. 74. Omelet. Make three omelets very thin, of three eggs each, seasoned with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a little sweet leek, or eschalot, cut each omelet in two, spread them in the pan as much as possible; rub them well over with beaten egg, and strew them over with bread-crumbs, then fry them a good color. Serve with mint sauce, or crisped parsley, and brown gravy in a bo&t. 75. Potato Omelet. Beat six eggs leaving out two whites, and have ready about two table-spoonsful of potato boiled and mashed very fine, put it to the eggs with a table-spoonful of fine bread- crumbs, a little salt, pepper, and about an ounce and half of butter broken into small bits; melt a little butter in a clean frying-pan, pour in the batter and fry it a nice light brown, or it may be baked in a flat dish in a quick oven. Serve it with gravy in a boat. 76. Omelet. Take the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, beat them well, and after adding some chopped parsley, a little thyme, eschalots or sweet leeks, pepper and salt, beat them five minutes longer, then add quarter of a pint of cream and about one ounce of butter broken into small pieces; melt some butter in a frying-pan and pour in the omelet, stirring it about till it begins to set, then gather it up to- gether with a knife or a small slice, into an oval or round C26 OMELETS, FRITTERS, &C. form according to the form of your dish. Serve it up quite hot, with a little brown gra\y round the edge of it. 77. Omelet. Beat six eggs, add some chives or leeks, pepper and salt; mushrooms, eschalots, and young onions chopped fine; a little asparagus may be added at pleasure. It inay be either fried, or baked in a quick oven. 78. Cheap, wholesome and savoury Food. Take one pound of East India rice, steep it in cold water two hours, then put it in boiling water, if it has been pro- perly steeped it will be sufficiently boiled in five minutes ; then pour the water from it and dry it over the fire the same as potatoes. Use it with the following gravy: fry some onions in three ounces of butter till brown and tender, then add a little flour mixed with some water, salt and Cayenne pepper to the taste. 79. Minced Fritter with Mushrooms and Eggs. Chop rather small some plain cold bread fritters, with three or four hard boiled eggs and a few fresh mushrooms, (when they can be procured) boil up some gravy in a saucepan either brown or white according to the taste, put in the egg, &c. and let it nearly boil in the gravy, adding seasoning to the taste and a squeeze of lemon juice, a little cream may be added after it is taken oflf the fire. Keep it hot and serve it up with sippets in the dish. A few pickled mushrooms or those that are preserved with salt in their own liquor are very good substitutes for fresh mushrooms. 80. A Savory Dish of Force-meat. Beil some eggs hard, take out the yolks and mash them with a little butter, add some bread-crumbs, some chopped parsley, beets, and sweet leek or a little onion, pepper and salt, mix them up with well-beaten eggs, till it will adhere together. Melt a little butter in a Dutch oven, then put in the force-meat and roast it before the fire till of a good brown, basting it now and then with a little butter, when27 OMELETS, FRITTERS, &C. (lone serve it up with brown gravy, to which may be added the whites of the eggs, cut as for egg-sauce, if approved, 81. Another. Take bread crumbs, some butter, either rubbed in the bread or melted, parsley, chives orsweetleeks, mushroomschopped, two raw eggs, salt, Cayenne pepper, and quarter of a pint of cream: mix all well together and bake it, or fry it in balls. 82. Onion and Sage Fritters. Take three large onions, about half boil them in two waters, some sage and parsley, chop them small and season well with pepper and salt, mix them with some bread-crumbs. Beat three or four eggs and mix all together ; fry it in fritters and serve with brown gravy. Reserve a little of the onion and sage, to put on the dish. 83. Rice Fritters. Boil feur ounces of the best rice in water till tender; strain it and mash it a little with a wooden spoon, add two well- beaten eggs, a little salt and pepper, fry it in fritters a nice light brown, serve it up with crisped parsley, and melted butter in a boat. It is very good without eggs. 84. Onion Fritters. Pare three large onions, boil them in two or three waters, till rather tender, chop them small; mix four well-beaten eggs and four spoonsful of milk with two large spoonsful of flour, then put in the onions with a little pepper and salt, beat it well together; make it into fritters and fry them in olive-oil and butter over a moderate fire, till they are of a light brown. Serve them up with brown gravy with a few pickled mushrooms in it or a tea spoonful of lemon pickle. 85. Onion and Sage Fritters. Chop small four middling-sized onions, fry them a nice brown, mix them with some bread-crumbs, a tea-spoonfiilOMELETS, FRITTERS, &C, 28 of powdered sage, pepper and salt, beat four eggs very well and put in ; then mix all well together, and fry the fritters in olive-oil and butter over a quick fire. Reserve about a third part of the fried onion to put in the dish with brown gravy. Apple-sauce and mustard are a great im- provement to this dish, also a little powdered sage put into the gravy. 86. Force-meat Balls and Eggs. Rub a piece of butter the size of an egg in about quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, add a little chopped parsley, leeks, sweet marjoram, or winter-savory, and lemon- thyme, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; mix all very well together with two well-beaten eggs and a little cream ; make it up in balls and fry them in oil and butter ; put them in a dish with some eggs boiled hard, cut in quar- ters, or cut across in three, and fried with the balls, pour over them gravy. 87. A Dish if Eggs and Bread. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the white of one, mix as much bread-crumbs as will make it a stiff batter, adding a little salt, put it in a small oval dish buttered, and set it in the oven about quarter of an hour ; melt some butter in a frying-pan, and turn the substance out of the dish into it, having ready the whites of the five eggs and one yolk beaten to pour over it, keeping it to one side of the pan as much as possible, sprinkle it over with bread-crumbs, and when browned, turn and brown it on the other side. Serve it up with brown gravy in the dish and onion-sauce in a boat. 88. Brown Gravy. Take two or three ounces of butter, and one table-spoonful of flonr ; put them together in a frying-pan with a small bit of white sugar, keep stirring it over a slow fire till it is of a fine brown, then add boiling water till of a, proper thick- ness, season it with pepper and salt, and a little mushroom catsup if approved.Q 2 EGGS 89. To boil Eggs. Put the eggs in a pan with cold water on the fire, and if permitted to boil one minute, the eggs will be done as much as when boiled three minutes in the usual way. 90. To Poach Eggs. Put salt and a little vinegar iuto the water when it boils, take it off the fire to nut in the eggs, which must be broken separately into a tea-cup and put very carefully iuto the water, cover the pan and set it on the fire just to simmer; they will be done in about three minutes, then take them up with a slice, cut off the ragged part of the whites and lay them ou buttered toast. 91. Eggs Hashed. Boi1 some eggs hard and take out part of the yolks whole, and cut the rest in quarters, yolks and whites together. Set on a little water with a spoonful of catsup, and a little shred thyme and parsley in it; when it has boiled a few minutes, put in your eggs with a little grated nutmeg, and shake them up with a piece of butter till it be of a pro* per thickness. Serve it up hot with sippets in the dish, 92. Eggs with Lettuce. Scald some cabbage-lettuce in water, squeeze them well, then slice them and toss them up in a saucepan with a piece of butter ; season them with pepper, salt, and a little nut* meg. Let them stew half an hour, chop them well toge- ther, when they are enough, lay them in your dish ; fry some eggs nicely in butter and lay on them. 93. A J)ish of Eggs. Boil eggs very hard, and cut off the thick ends. Fry them in a little butter, and take care to keep them con-30 EGOS, &C. tinually in motion; then place them in the dish on the thick end, and pour over them some good herb gravy, which must be brown. Garnish with lemon and what was cut oft* the ends. 94. Eggs. Boil eight eggs hard, and put them in cold water, then peel them without breaking the whites, cut a small bit oft* the end of four, as they will stand upright on the dish ; split the other four through the middle, and lay them round the others; put a little flour, water, butter and cat- sup into a stew-pan, make it hot, and put a little chopped parsley in it, and pour it over the eggs. N. B. The parsley should not be boiled, either in the sauce or before it is chopped. Garnish with small branches of curled parsley. 95. Fried Eggs with Parsley. Boil some eggs hard, slice and fry them with olii e-oil and butter, brown a little butter in the pan with a little flour dusted in it, pour in a little w ater and salt, let it boil and pour it on the eggs. Garnish with fried parsley.—It is very good with parsley-sauce instead of fried parsley. 96. Fricassee of Eggs. Boil some eggs hard, slice them; take a little flour and water, a little cream, butter, nutmeg, salt, pepper, chop- ped parsley, and a few pickled mushrooms, boil it up and pour it over the eggs, with a hard yolk m the middle of the dish and toasted sippets. 97. Buttered Eggs, with Spinage. Beat some eggs, set them over the fire with a little cream, butter, and salt, stir it till it thickens, then pour it on but- tered toast. Boiled spinage to be laid round the eggs. 98. Buttered Eggs. Beat five eggs, put three ounces of butter in a basin, andEGGS, &C. 31 set tlie basin in boiling water till the butter be melted, then pour the butter and eggs into a saucepan, hold it over a slow tire shaking it one way as it begins to warm ; pour it into a basin and back, then hold it again over the tire, stirring it constantly and pouring it into the basin, more perfectly to mix. the egg and butter, until it is hot with- out boiling. Serve it on toasted bread. 99. Scotch Dish of Eggs. Boil hard five pullet’s eggs, without removing the white, cover completely with a good forcemeat; fry the whole a fine light brown, and serve it with brown gravy in the dish. 100. Eggs with Sorrel. Boil some sorrel, strain it well, put it in a saucepan with a piece of butter, shake it round till the butter is melted ; then put it in a dish, with some bits of toast fried a light brown, and lay poached eggs on the sorrel. 101. Eggs xoith Sorrel and Lettuce. Take a good deal of sorrel and two cabbage-lettuces chop- ped small, put them in a stew-pan with butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and green onions; cover it close, stew gently till almost dry, thicken with two yolks of eggs mixed with cream, put it in your dish with hard eggs boiled and cut in quarters, and sippets round the dish. 102. A French Dish of Eggs. Take some butter with green onions chopped, put them in a stew-pan, shake it over the fire with a dust of flour, adding some herb broth; when it boils skim it, let it be of a proper thickness ; put six hard boiled eggs cut in slices in your stew-pan, thicken it w ith two yolks of eggs mixed with cream, the juice of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of mus- tard. Put it in the dish and serve it up, with or without sippets. 103. Eggs with Onions and Mushrooms. When you have boiled the eggs hard, take out the yolksEGGS, &C. 32 whole, and cut the whites in slips, with some onions and mushrooms. Fry the onions and mushrooms, then add the whites, and turn them about a little, dredge them with Hour, and add a little mushroom catsup. Boil this up, then put in the yolks, and add pepper and salt. Let the whole simmer for about a minute, then serve it up. 104. Eggs Hashed. Boil eggs hard, slice them, fry an onion sliced, in butter; put in the eggs with a little flour and herb broth, cream, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Serve them hot. 105. Eggs. A French Dish. Boil six eggs about fire minutes, peel them and cut them in quarters lengthwise; set half a pint of new milk on the fire, with a little flour worked in some butter, a little pep- per, salt, and a little nutmeg grated, let it simmer gently about twenty minutes, stir in some more butter and cream, then put in the eggs and a little parsley chopped fine. Serve it up with sippets in the dish. This dish may be varied by a few fried onions being stewed with the flour and butter, leaving out the nutmeg, 106. To Fry Eggs. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, break your eggs sepa- rately into a tea-cup, put them carefully into the pan, and fry them on rather a brisk fire; when they begin to set, keep pouring the hot butter on the yolks with the slice till they are enough. If preferred crisp and rather hard, they may be turned over. 107. To Fry Eggs. Boil some eggs hard, slice them, fry them quick in butter, lay them on a dish before the fire ; brown a little butter in the pan, and mix a little flour and water, with a few young onions or eschalot chopped small, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, boil this up. If not thick enough, mix a little flour with a bit of butter; give it a boil and pour it over the eggs.33 EGGS, &C. 108. Eggs with Cucumbers. Peel some cucumbers, cut them in halves, take out the seeds, slice them and some onions, steep them in salt and vinegar an hour; dry and fry them; when a little brown, flour them; put iu a little water and let them stew. The sauce must not be thin ; if not tart enough* add a little lemon- juice, with a little pepper aud salt; lay poached or fried eggs on the cucumbers* 109. Asparagus and Eggs. Cut some asparagus (that has been previously boiled) the same as for pease, break six eggs into a basin, beat them up, put them with a little pepper and salt, and the aspara- gus, into a stew-pan, with two ounces of butter, and keep stirring it all the time it is on the fire; when it becomes thick it is done; then put a toast on the dish, aud pour the eggs and asparagriB on the toast. N. B. This should be served up immediately when done, for if permitted to stand it will not be good. 110. A Ragout of Eggs. Boil eight eggs hard, then shell and cut them in quarters. Have ready a pint of good herb gravy, well seasoned and thickened over the fire with two ounces of butter roiled in flour. When quite smooth and hot, pour it over the eggs, and serve them up. By using cream instead of gravy, putting an ounce more of butter and omitting the flour, this will make a fricassee. 111. Ragout of Eggs and Mushrooms. Take some large mushrooms, peel and scrape them clean, put them into a saucepan with a little salt, cover them* and let them boil a little, then put in a gill of milk, an ounce of butter rolled in flour, seasoned with mace and nutmeg: boil it till it be of a good consistency. Have ready six hard-boiled eggs, take out the yolks whole. Put some toasted sippets in a dish, and the yolks upon them, then pour over them the whole of your ragout.34 EGGS, &e. 112. Eggs with Cheese. Put quarter of a pound of grated Swiss cheese into a saucepan with a piece of butter half the size of an egg, some parsley and chives chopped, a little nutmeg, and half a glass of sherbet. Set it over a gentle fire, moving it about till the cheese is melted. Then mix with it six eggs, and set it again over the fire till they are nicely done. Serve it up with small pieces of toasted bread round the dish. 113. Eggs fried in Paste. Boil six eggs three minutes, put them into cold water* then take the shells off (be careful not to break the whites) and wrap the eggs up in slips of puff paste ; brush them over w ith beaten egg3, and sprinkle a very few fine bread- crumbs over them, have some clarified butter in a pan, when hot put in the eggs ; fry them a fine light blown, and serve them up with a little brown gravy. 114. A Fricassee of Eggs. Take a penny loaf, cut off the crust, cut it into thin slices, toast it a light brown, cut it into sippets. Put olive-oil and butter into the frying-pan, make it hot, put the sippet in, turn it over in the pan, and lay it on a dish. Have ready six eggs boiled hard, pare and cut them from end to end into three, fry them in the remainder of the oil, put one on each sippet; sprinkle over them crisped parsley. Serve them up with melted butter. lid. Egg-balls. Pound the yolks of eggs boiled hard, in a marble mortar, with a little flour, white pepper, and salt, add as much4 raw yolk of egg as will make it up into balls, about one to three, boil them three minutes before they are put into soups, &c. 116. Egg-balls with Onions. Make some balls of eggs and boil them as in the preceding35 EGGS, &C. receipt, chop the whites a little and fry them with some onion that has been previously boiled a little; when of a nice brown, add a little pepper, salt, a little water or herb- broth, let it boil about a minute, then pour it on toasted sippets and lay the balls round it. 117. Sorrel with Buttered Eggs. Boil some sorrel, chop it and stir it into some buttered eggs, and pour it on sippets. Beets or spinage boiled with a little parsley and a leaf or two of sage is also very good mixed with buttered eggs in the same way. 118. Minced Eggs and Parsley. Boil some eggs rather hard, peel and chop them small with some boiled parsley, mix them up with a little good melted butter and a small portion of salt. Serve with sippets round tiie dish. 119. To preserve Eggsfor eating in the Shell. Boil any number of fresh eggs for the space of one minute and a half, and when wanted for use, after any length of time, let them be reboiled for the space of time as at the first. 120. To preserve Eggs for the Winter. Put them in a deep earthen pot in lime water, with a large handful of salt in it. 12 F. To preserve Eggs for Winter use. Fill a box with eggs, with a layer of bran between each layer of eggs; when quite full lock it, or fasten it so that it will not give way, then tie a strina round it and hang it up in a cool, dry place, turning it twice a week. 122. To preserve Eggs for Winter use. Dissolve eight ounces of chlorate of lime in a gallon of water, then put in the eggs. They may also be preserved many months by merely altering their position daily, inorder to prevent the yolk settling and sticking to the shell. Shelves with holes in and painted are best suited for the purpose. VEGETABLES. 123. To Boil Asparagus. Cut off as much of the white end as will leave the aspara- gus about six inches long; scrape the remaining white part very clean, and as they are done put them in fresh water; tie them in small even parcels, put them in boiling water, and boil them till tender, but do not over-boil them; take them up with a slice into a sieve to drain a little; havereadv a thin toast to dip into the water ; lay it in a dish and the asparagus upon it the white ends outward ; pour melted butter over the green part when you serve it up. 124. Asparagus like Green Pease, After cutting the tender part of asparagus the size of small pease, wash them in spring water; scald them a moment in boiling water, drain them well and dress them, as pease, with white sauce, only omitting the lettuce. 126, Gourds. Pare a gourd, then boil it in water, when it is done enough and there is very little water remaining, put to it some milk, butter, a little salt, and sugar; add some slices of bread if agreeable; do not set it on the fire after adding these ingredients.37 VEGETABLES, &C. 126 To Boil Turnips. When you have pared them, cur them in slices, then put them in a saucepan, and just cover them with water. As soon as they are enough, take them off the fire, and put them into a sieve to drain. Mash them well with some* baiter, or somegopd cream, and a little salt, then put them into your dish, and serve them up with melted butter. 127. To Boil Parsnips. They must be boiled in plenty of water, and when tiny are soft take them up, scrape them fine with a knife, masa them, and put them in a saucepan w ith some milk, stir them over the fire till they have thickened, taking care that they do not burn. Add an ounce of butter and a little salt, ami when the butter is melted serye them up, 128. To Boil Sprouts. Pick and wash your sprouts very clean, cut them across the stem, take them out to drain ; have water boiling in a pan, put them in, boil them quick, take off1 the scum as it rises. When they are tender, take them out and drain them, for if suffered to remain in the water after they are enough, they will not only lose their color, but also their flavour. Serve them up with good melted butter. 129. To Boil Spinage. Be careful to pick it exceedingly clean, then wash it three or four times, put it into a saucepan that will just hold it, with a little water, throw a little salt over it, and cover it close. Put your saucepan on a clear quick fire, and when the spinage is shrunk or fallen, it is enough ; then put it into a clean sieve to drain, and squeeze it well; lay it on a plate, anu send it to the table with melted butter in a boat. 130. Another. After having picked and washed it very clean, put it in a pan of boiling water with a handful of salt; boil it very quick38 VEGETABLES, &C. without being covered, then drain it through a sieve, and press it between two strong plates or wooden trencheis; lav it neatly on a dish, and cut it across each way four times. A poached egg may be laid on each piece of spinage. 131. To Boil Potatoes. Pare and wash the potatoes very clean, put them into a pan with cold water just sufficient to cover them, adding a little salt; let them boil very gently, and when enough, or before they break, drain the water from them as dry as possible; sprinkle in a little salt, and hold them over*the tire to dry, shaking the pan carefnlly now and then till the potatoes look dry and mealy. If not wanted immediately, lay a clean cloth close over them in the pan and keep them hot; but, to be nice, they ought not to stand long after being boiled. 132. 7 o Boil Beans. In shelling the beans take off the eyes or green ends, wash and drain them through a sieve or colander, and put them into plenty of boiling water with salt in it, boil them till tender; then drain them again through a colander, and serve them up with boiled parsley and melted butter in a boat. 133. To Boil Carrots. Wash and brush them ; boil in plenty of water with a little salt in it till quite tender, then rub off the skin with a clean cloth and slice them : serve them up with melted butter. 134. To Boil Vegetable Marroic. Gather them for boiling before they are too large and full of seeds, and boil them in plenty of water w ith some salt in it, and a bit of potash about the size of a large pea ; when enough, slice them and serve them up with melted butter. They are very good sliced thin, after being boiled, and then fried in batter in the same way as cauliflower or beet-root, and served up with gravy. A little fried onion may also *»e added, if approved.VEGETABLES, &C. 39 135. Kidney Beans. First carefully string- them, then slit them clown the mid- dle and cut them across. Put them into salt and water, and when the waler boils in your pan, put them in with a little salt They will be soon done, which may be known by their feeling tender. Drain them through a sieve or colander, and serve them up with melted butter in a boat. Vinegar is an agreeable addition. 136. To Boil Leeks. Strip off the outside leaves, boil them with a little salt in the w ater till they are tender, lay them on buttered toast; eat them with melted butter, pepper and salt. Radishes done in the same w ay are very good. 137. To Boil Cauliflowers. Cnt the flowers close at the bottom from the stalk, lay them in salt and water an hour, then boil them in milk and water (or water alone), observing to skim it well; when the stalks are tender they are enough, and should be in- stantly taken up and drained. Serve them up with melted butter in a boat. Cauliflowers should be boiled in plenty of water, and very quickly at the first, then not quite so fast, as the flower would be enough before the stalk, and they are not good when over-boiled. Brocoli may be boiled in the same way. 138. To Boil Pease. Shell them as dean as possible that they may not require washing, boil them with some salt in the water and a sprig of mint if approved; be careful not to over-boil them, as it destroys the flavuor. When they are enough drain them through a sieve, but not very dry, put them into a dish, and stir in a piece of butter and a dredge of flour. 139 To Boil Hop-Tops, I he young shoots of the wild hop are eaten as a boiled salad ; boil them in water with a little salt, whenVEGETABLES. &C 40 they are well done, drained and cold, serve them up with pepper and salt, oil and vinegar over them. The) are sometimes eaten hot with melted butter. 140. To Boil B/oeoli. Cut off the small clusters round the. main head, then peel the stalk, wash them clean, and put them in plenty of boil- ing water, with some salt in it, boil till the stalks are ten- der, then serve them up as caulitlower, or lay them on toast as aspaiagus, with melted butter. The smaller clusters should be tied in bunches, ll the flower be soft, it is good for nothing. 141. To Boil Cabbage. Halve, or, if large, quarter the cabbages, boil them in plenty of water with salt in it very quickly ; when half clone, drain them and put them in fresh boiling water ; when enough, drain them and press the water from them very well. They may either be served as they are just boiled, with melted butter, or chopped with apiece of cold butter, and a little pepper and salt. 142. To Boil Artichokes. Wring tlie stalks off, and lay the artichokes in the water cold, with the bottoms up, by which means the dirt con- cealed between the leaves will boil out. After the water boils, they will take nearly two hours to he done. Serve with melted butter, salt, and pepper. The water in which artichokes, greens, cauliflower, salads, &c. are washed, should have a large handful of salt thrown in it. 143. Sea Kale. This must be boiled very nice and tender, and served upon toast like asparagus, with melted butter poured over it. It requires longer boiling than asparagus. 144. To Boil Red Beet-root. Let the root be well washed and boiled in a moderate41 YEGETABLES, &C. quantity of water, putting it into the water when cold ; a large root will require boiling an hour and a half. Serve it up hot with melted butter in a boat, or cold* aud eat it with mustard and vinegar, or slice it into salads. 145. To Stew Onions. Peel some onions and put them in a dish with some butter that has been previously browned, put them into a brisk oven; when nicely browned pour some thin melted butter on them, add pepper and salt, and let them stew quarter of an hour longer. 146 To Stew Onions. Peel six large onions, slice and dredge them, fry them gently to a fine brown, then put them into a small stew- pan with a very little water, pepper and salt, cover and stew them two hours: a little flour and butter may be added, if requisite. 147. To Roast Onions. Roast onions with the skins on in a Dutch oven, turning them frequently; let them be thoroughly done; they are very good with cold butter, pepper, and salt, to eat with bread or potatoes. 148. To make a Ragout of Onions. Take a pint of small young onions, and four large ones, peel and cut the large ones very small; put quarter of a pound of butter into a stew-pan, when it is melted and has done hissing, throw in your onions, and fry them till they begin to look a little brown; then dredge in a little flour, and shake them round till they are thick ; put in a little salt, some pepper, quarter of a pint of w ater, and a tea- spoonful of mustird. Stir all together, and when it is well tasted and of a good thickness pour it into your dish, aud garnish it with fried crumbs of bread or raspings. You may use raspings instead of flour, if you please.VEGETABLES, kc. 42 1 49. Mushrooms Stewed whole. Wipe some large buttons, boil them up quit kly in a little water; put to them some cream, a piece of butter mixed with a little flour, a little pounded mace, Cayenne and salt; boil this up, often shaking the pan. 150. To Broil Mushrooms. Peel and cut off the stalks of some moderate sized mush- rooms, put a small bit of butter in each, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, set them in the oven, and serve the» up with the liquor that conies from them. 151. To Grill Mushrooms. Choose large, firm, fresh-gathered mushrooms, skin and score them on the under side, put them on a dish, with alitti* line oil or melted butter over them, pepper and salt; when they have*stood an hour or more broil them ov r a clear fire, and serve them with a sauce made from the water in which the mushroom stalks and parings have been boiled, with the addition of a little chopped parsley, young onion, batter, and the juice of a lemon. 152. To Stew Mushrooms The mushrooms should be peeled very thin and put into water, with the juice of a lemon, melt a bit of butter in a stew-pan, then put in the mushrooms and a little pepper and salt, set them over the fire for about fifteen minutes (they should stew very slowly); add a little cream, ora little butter worked up with a dredge of flour. 153. Mushrooms with Toast. Put some cleaned mushrooms into a stew-pan with a little butter, pepper, salt, and juice of lemon, some green onions, parsley, sweet savoury, and three cloves tied in a bit of muslin, set them a proper distance over the fire till nearly dry, add a dust of flour with a li?tie vegetable broth, boil them fifteen miuuUs, then take out the herbs; thicker48 VEGETABLES, &C. with two yolks of eggs mixed with cream, put the top of a French roll toasted and buttered in a dish, and pour on the mushrooms. 154. To Bake Tom at as. Cut some tornatas in two the broad way, put them into a tin, with the rind downwards, strew upon each a seasoning of pepper, salt, and sweet herbs chopped small; set them in the oven till they are soft, then serve them up without any other sauce. The fruit of the purple egg-plant is eaten, prepared in the same manner cut the long way. 155. To Force Cucumbers. Make a slit down the side and take out the seeds, fill the cucumbers with force-meat that has been boiled, tie them up with packthread and fry them, stew them in vegetable broth with the butter they were fried in, salt; Cayenne pepper, and a little pounded cloves, mix a little flour in a little of ihe gravy to thicken it, and boil all together. 156. Ragout of Cucumbers The cucumbers must be pared, the inside taken out, and then cut in pieces, lay them in a dish singly with half a spoonful of vinegar and a little salt for two hours, turning them frequently ; by this means the juice which is so cold to the stomach will be drawn out of them; then press them i-i a cloth and put them in a saucepan with some butter, shake them over the fire, then add a pinch of flour, and moisten them with vegetable broth ; let them simmer on a slow fire till they are done enough, then put in a thicken- ing of yolks of eggs and a little milk, set them on the fire again, but not to boil. 157. Fricassee of Red Beet-root. After being boiled in water, put some slices into a sauce- pan with some butter, parsley, chives or sweet leeks chop- ped, a little garlic, a pinch of flour, salt, pepper, and vinegar to the taste; let it boil quarter of an hour.VEGETABLES, &C. 44 168. To Force Carrots. Take three or four of the largest carrots, put them into a kettle of boiling water, let them boil till tough, take them out and let them stand till cold ; then scrape out the inside, till the carrots with force-meat, and sew or tie them up tight in separate cloths, and boil them nearly tender, take them out of the water, and when cool slice and fry them in butter. 159. Red Cabbage dressed the Dutch way. Cut a red cabbage small and boil it in water till tender; then drain it as dry as possible; put it in a stew-pan with some pure olive-oil and fresh butter, a small quantity of vinegar and water, an onion cut small, pepper and salt; let it simmer till all the liquor be wasted. It may then be eaten either hot or cold, and is considered to be an excel- lent pectoral medicine, as well as a pleasant food. 160 To Slew Red Cabbage. Take off all the coarse outside leaves of the cabbage, cut it small and wash it well; scald it in boiling salt and w ater, then wipe it dry, and put it into a stew-pan w ith one onion sliced thin, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little all-spice tied in a bit of muslin, some pepper, salt, and quarter of a pint of water; stew it gently till the cab bage is well done, then take out the all-spice, and add a spoonful or two of good vinegar. Savoys or cabbages may be stewed in the same manner as tne red cabbage, only about half boil them in water the common w ay and then stew them; it takes off much of the strong flavour. Cabbages of every kind are very superior when boiled in two, waters. i 161. To Stew Carrots. About half boil your carrots, then nicely scrape and slice them, put them into a stew-pan with half a tea-cupful of vegetable broth, some white pepper, salt, and a little cream; simmer them till very tender but not broken, thenVEGETABLES, &C. 45 ’stir in a little flour and butter, veil mixed, and let it sim- mer a little longer. A little chopped parsley may be added a few minutes betore it is served up, if approved. I 62. Green and \Vhite Beet. The leaves of these plants are very good boih d w ith some paisley and eaten as spinage. The large wh te beet when iull-grown, and the leaves stripped oft’ to the middle rib which is thick and fleshy, may be peeled and stewed, and eaten like asparagus. Hamburgh parsley roots, boiled like young carrots, eat very well alone or in soups. 163. To Steiv Spinage. Take three large handfuls of spinage, when scalded throw it into cold water, wash it clean, and squeeze it in a cloth very dry ; then chop it small, and put it into a stew-nan with a piece of butter and some cream, stir it well over the tire, dust in it a very little flour, a little salt, and a little more cream; let it be quite hot, then serve it up. Sorrel may be stewed the same way. 161. ‘Jo Stew Spinage. Pick and wash the spinage well, and put it into a pan with a little salt, and a few spoonsful of water, taking care to shake the pan often. When stewed tender take it out and put it into a sieve to drain, and give it a squeeze. Return it into the stew-pan after being well beat, and put to it some cream, with pepper, salt, and a piece of butler ; stew about quarter of an houi, and stir it frequently. When served up , a lew poached eggs may or may not be add. d. 166 To Slew Spinage with Cream. Boil the spinage till nearly enough, then squeeze all the water from it, and put it in a stew-pan with some butter and salt, stir it over the fire till the butter is well mixed with it, then add as much cream as will make it of a moderate thickness, shake it a minute or two over the fire, and serve it up with sippets of tried or toasted bread.VEGETABLES, &C. 46 166. To Stew Spinage and Sorrel, Take spinage and sorrel in the proportion of one fourth of sorrel to three of spinage; pick and wash them very clean, cut them a little and put them in a stew-pan with two or three spoonsful of water, stir them over the fire till they soften and become liquid, then leave it to stew at a dis- tance over the fire for an hour or more, stirring it some- times; thicken it with a little Hour; when quite done, add some pepper and salt. 167. To Slew Old Pease. .Steep them in water all night, then put them in a pan with water just enough to cover them, and a little butter, stew very gently till the pease be quite soft; season with pepper and s-iit. 168. To Stew Green Pease. Put a quart of pease into a pan, with a lettuce and onion, both sliced, a bit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs to the lettuce from washing ; stew them two hours very gently ; when to be served, beat up an egg and stir it into them, or a little flour and butter. 169 Green Pease Stewed with Lettuce. Boil the pease in hard water till nearly enough, after which let them be drained through a sieve. Cut the let- tuces and fry them in butter ; then put them and the pease into a slew-pan with some water pepper, and salt; thicken w ith flour and butter, and add a little shred mint. 170 To Stew Pease Take a quart of shelled pease, cut a large Spanish onion, or two middling ones, small, and two cabbage or Silesia lettuces cut small, putthem into asaucepan with half a pint of water, season them with a little salt, a little beaten pep- per, mace, and nutmeg. Cover them close, and let them stew quarter of an hour, then put in quarter of a pound of fresh butter rolled in a little flour, a spoonful of catsup.VEGETABLES, &C. 47 a small piece of butter as big as a nutmeg; cover them close, anil simmer gently an hour, often shaking the pan. When enough, serve it up. For an alteration, you may stew the ingredients as above; then take a small cabbage-lettuce and half boil it, then drain it, cut the stalk flat at the bottom, so that it will stand firm in the dish, and with a knife very carefully cut out. the middle, leaving the outside leaves whole. Put what you cut into a saucepan, chop it, adding a piece of butter, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, the yolk of a bard egg chopped, a few crumbs of bread, mix all toge- ther, and when it is hot till your cabbage; put some but- ter into a stew-pan, tie your cabbage, and fry it till you think it enough ; then take it up, untie it, and first pour the stewed pease into your dish, set the forced cabbage in the middle, and have read\ four artichoke-bottoms fried, cut in two, and laid round the dish. 171 Green Pease ivith Cream. Take a quart of fine green pease, put them into a stew- pan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, rolled in a little flour, season them with a little salt and nutmeg, a lump of sugar the size of a nutmeg, a small bundle of sweet herbs, some parsley chopped fine, and quarter of a pint of boiling water. Cover them close, and Jet them stew very softly half an hour, then pour in quarter qf a pint of good cream Give it one boil, and serve it up. 172. To Stew Geeen Pease a mild way. Put a pint of young pease into a stew-pan, with very little water, and two young lettuces cut small; stew them gently till the pease are tender, then add four spoonsful of cream, a lump of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs; stir the whole together for a short time, but do not allow it to boil; add a little salt, and serve it up. 173. To Stew Celery. After stripping off the outside leaves, but the celery intoVEGETABLES, &c. 48 lengths of about two inches, then put it into a pan with as much good milk as will just cover it, let it boil gentl\ till quite tender, season with pep; er, salt, and a little mitim g, thicken it with a little flour and butter, and let it boil a lew minutes. 1*4. To Stcxc Celery White. Boil the white part till tender, cut it in pieces, stir son ' cream over the fue with a little flcur and butter, put in the celery, salt, pepper, and pounded mace, a little lemon-peel, shake all together till hot, but do not let it boil. 175. Another Way Wash and clean six or eight heads of celery, cut them about three inches long, boil them tender, pour away all the water, and take t e yolks of four eggs beat fine, half a pint of cream, a little salt and onion, pour it over; keep the pan shaking all the while. When it begins to be thick dish it up. 176. To Stew French Beans. Boil them till tender, drain them in a sieve, put them in a pan with a little cream, flour and butter, pepper, and salt; boil it up. 17 7. Cauliflower with White Sauee. When the cauliflower is boiled till nearly tender, drain it well, then separate it into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan with white sauce, and a few small mushrooms in it, or some very small onions that have been previously boiled. Serve itwith toasted sippets. 178. To Hash Potatoes. To about five pounds of potatoes, pared and cut as for a potatoe pie, take a quart of water, a little fine oatmeal to thicken it, some salt, pepper, and two ounces of butter, let it boil, shaking the pan round frequently, then addVEGETABLES, Lc. 40 some chopped parsley, sweet leeks, and let the potatoes boil till they are enough, stirring them now and then, to prevent their burning to the pan. This js an excellent hash. Onions, with a little sage, chopped and stewed with the potatoes, also make a very good hash. J 78. To Stew Potatoes. Cut your potatoes as for a potatoe pie, put them in a pan in layers, with a little chopped onion, pepper, and salt be- tween eflch layer, then put some butter on the top, cover the pan, and set it on the fire that tne potatoes may stew moderately. They will be ready in hall an hour, or rather less. 179. A Hash of cold boiled Potatoes, Pare them the size of thick corks, then cut them in slices half an inch thick, put them in a stew-pan with skinned green onions and parsley chopped, a little pepper, salt, and butter; moisten with vegetable broth, or mushroom liquor, shake or stir them till the herbs are done. 180. To Boil New Potatoes. When first gathered, the skin is best rubbed off with salt in a coarse cloth, theu wash them very clean, and put them into salt and water some time before they are boiled ; when, you put them in the pan, put as much water as will barely cover them, adding a little salt; boil them very slow till nearly done, theu pour the water from them very dry; (cover them close with a clean cloth and then the pan cover, set them where they w ill keep hot, but be care* ful they do not burn in the pan, as it quite spoils the flavor of the potatoes. Dish them up with some bits of buftep on the top. 181. To Mash Potatoes. Pare, and boil them slowly and carefully, dry them well, and mash them very fine adding a little salt and butter to them, then add a little hot new milk, beat them well whk fhe masher, and they will be ready for the table, Evegetables, &c. 50 182. Potatoes Scolloped. When boiled (the mealy sort are best), beat them fiue, put to them cream, the yolk of an egg, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter; do not make them too moist; fill some scollop shells, smooth the tops with the back of a spoon, rub them over with a little yelk of an egg, setthem in a Dutch oven to brown ; they will rise before the fire, and if nicely done, they make a good supper- dish. 183. Potatoes in Balls. Bo with them as above; roll them in balls with a little flour, brown them in a common or Dutch oven, or fry them. Or, when mashed, &c , press the potato into a pint basin, then turn it out, and brown it before a fire. 184. To Roast Potatoes. Pare them, melt a little butter in a dish in the oven, put in the potatoes, sprinkle them with a little salt, and dredge a little flour over them, and turn them frequently till they are enough. They should be roasted in a quick oven. 185. To Stew Herbs. Take of beets, pai sley, and leeks, an eqnal quantity of each, cut them small, put them into a frying-pan, just cover them with water, season with pepper aud salt, stew them for forty minutes; add two ounces of olive-oil and butter; put them iuto a dish. They may be eaten with potatoes, bread, or boiled rice. 186. To Stcu> Cucumbers. Take an equal quantity of cucumbers and onions, fry them a nice brown in butter, put them in a saucepan with half a gill of water or vegetable broth, season with pepper aud salt, and stew them till quite soft; then work a little flour and butter together and put in; let it boil a few minutes till of a good thickness. 187. To Fry Potatoes. Pare and cut them iuto thin slices as large a* a crown-VEGETABLES, &C. 61 piece, fry them brown in olive oil and butter, lay them oh the plate or dish, and sprinkle a little salt over them ; or they may be dipped in batter and fried. 188. To Fry Artichoke-bottoms. First blanch them in water, then flour and fry them in fresh butter, lay them in a dish and pour melted butter over them ; or you may serve them up with melted butter, seasoned with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. 189. To Fry Onions. Take some large onions, peel them, and cut them in slices about quarter of an inch thick, put them into batter without breaking them, aud fry them of a nice brown. 190. To Fry Cauliflowers. Boil a cauliflower till nearly enough; then slice it and dip it in batter; fry it in butter a nice brown. Serve it up with brown gravy in a boat. 191. To Fry Cauliflowers. Take two fine cauliflowers, boil them in milk and water; leave one whole and pull the other to pieces; take quarter of a pound of butter with two spoonsful of water, and a little flour, boil it up, and put in the whole cauliflower, cut in two, then take the other that is pulled to pieces, and fry the parts till they are soft. Serve up with the fried round the other. 192. To Fry Beet-root. Boil the roots till nearly tender, with plenty of salt in the water, and a bit of potash the size of a large pea ; when cold, pare and slice them very thin, sprinkle them with salt and pepper; dip them in batter, and fry them with butter or olive-oil. Some prefer it withonf the batter. ,VEGETABLES, kc. 5*2 193. To Fry Mushrooms. Take large, fresh, red-gilled mushrooms, peel and wash them, dry them in a clean cloth ; put a little olive-oil ami hotter into the frying-pan, put them in the gilled side up- waids, sprinkle a little pt-pper and salt over them, and as they discharge their liquor take it out of the pan and keep it hot. When they are enough, put them on the dish with the following gravy. Put a little butter into the frying-pan, and a little flour, stir it on a slow fire till brown, adding the liquor which lias been produced by stewing the parings and stalks of the mushrooms, with a little pepper and salt in it; stir it on the fire till if boils, and serve it up in a boat. It makes excellent gravy. 194. 1 o Ragoo French Beans. Take a few beans, boil them tender, then take your stew- pan, put in a piece of butter, when it is melted, dredge in some flour; then peel a large onion, slice and fry it brown in the butter; then put in the beans, shake in a little pep- per and salt, grate a little nutmeg in, boil it up. and add the yolk of an egg and some cream, stir them all together tor a minute or two, and dish them up. 195. To Fry Parsley. Let it he nicely picked and washed, then put into a clean cloth and swung backwards and forwards till perfectly dry, then put it in the frying-pan in hot butler, fry it rather quick, but do not brown it; the moment it is crisp, take it out with a slice, aud lay it on a sieve or coarse cloth before the fire to drain. 196. Crisp Parsley. Pick and wash young curled parsley, dry it in a cloth as before, spread it on a sheet of clean paper in a Dutch oven before the fire, and turn it frequently until it is quite crisp. This is a much more easy way of preparing it than frying it, which is not seldom ill done. Parsley may also be very nicely crisped by spreading it on a dish before the fire (not53 VEGETABLES, &C. too near), and putting little bits of butter upon it, turning frequently with a fork. 197. A Batter to use in Frying Vegetables. Quarter of a pound of fine flour, a little pepper and salt, the yolks of three eggs, and a small tea-cupful of ginger- beer or water, beat it till quite smooth ; it should be pretty thick, or it will not adhere to the vegetables. 198. To Dry Mushrooms. After taking off the end of the stalk, wash them, and boil them for a moment in water; when drained, put them in a cool oven to dry. Keep them when done in a dry place. Soak them in warm water for use. They will also keep very well thread on a string, and hung up in a dry kitchen. 199. Another Way to Dry Mushrooms. Clean them well by wiping them, take out the brown part, and carefully peel off the skin, dry them on sheets of paper in a cool oven, and preserve them in paper bags in a dry place. When to be used, let them simmer in a little water, and they will nearly regain their original size. 200. Mushroom Powder. Dry the mushrooms whole, set them before the fire to crisp ; pound and sift the powder through a fine sieve; preserve it in glass bottles closely corked. 201. Mushroom Powder. Wash half a pint of mushrooms till quite clean, scrape out the black part, do not use any that are worm-eaten, put them into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with two large onions, some cloves, quarter of an ounce of mace, and some white pepper, all in powder; simmer and shake them till all the liquor is dried up. Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough to beat to powder, then put the powder into small bottles corked and tied closely, and kept in a dry place. A tea-spoonful willVEGETABLES, &C. f>4 give a very fine flavour to any soup, gravy, or sanre; ami it is to be added just before serving, and one boil given to it after it is put in. 202. Means of restoring Frosted Potatoes. Soak them twelve hours in cold water before they are to be prepared as food, changing the water every hour. If much frozen before laid in cold water, to each peck of potatoes take quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, dissolved in water, and mix it in the water which boils the potatoes. 203. To keep Green Pease. Gather your pease on a fine dry day, shell them, and put them, in dry clean bottles, cork them close and tie blad- ders over them, and keep them in a cool dry place. 204. Another Way to keep Green Pease. Scald your pease, then drain, and dry them between clean cloths, after which, put them in wide-mouthed bottles, and pour clarified butter over them, then close the bottle well, and rosin the cork down; after which bury them under ground, or keep the bottles in sand with the necks down- wards. When used boil them till tender, with a bit of but- ter, some mint, and a small portion of sugar. 20-5. Another Way to keep Pease. Shell, scald, and dry them as above, then put them on tins or earthen dishes in a cool oven once or twice to harden, keep them in paper-bags hung up in the kitchen. When wanted for use, soak them an hour or two in w ater, and set them on the fire in cold water, with salt and a small bit of butter ; a sprig of dried mint may be added. Serve them up as fresh pease. Windsor or Nonpareil beans dried and steeped a few hours in water, are very good when boiled and served up with parsley-sauce. 206. To preserve and dry French Beans, so that they will keep till Easter. Take any quantity of French beaus, whilst they are quite-VEGETABLES, &C. *)«3 tender and not stringy ; pick off the ends and put them in boiling water, boil them quarter of an hour, and then throw them into cold water, when they are cold drain them, anil after they are well dried, put them into clean, dry stone jars, and fill them up with brine made by putting two- thirds of water to one of vinegar, and a pound of salt to three pints of liquid. Pour on them some butter half warm, which will congeal upon the brine, and keep the air from the beans: tie papers over them and keep them in a moderately cool place, and do not open them till wanted for use Before they are used they must be soaked in warm water till they regain their original color, then boil them in the same manner as fresh beans. They will keep a considerable time, after being boiled and drained as above, if they are strung on a thread, and hung to the ceiling in a dry place They must be used in the same manner as the preserved beans. Warm the brine over the fire till the salt is dissolved, then let it stand to clear before it is used. 207. To preserve Chervil, Sorrel, Beet, Sfc. All these herbs are excellent in the making of soups, &c. and may be preserved in summer for the winter. When they are prepared m a proper manner they lose nothing of their original flavor. The method of doing this is so easv as to require but little attention. Take sorrel, chervil, beet-leaves, purslain, parsley, chives, and cucumbers, if in season, in quantities propor- tioned to the strength of each. Pick these carefully, wash them several times, and set them to drain. Then chop them, and press them with the hands, that little or no water may remain. Put a good piece of butter into a pan, and the herbs upon it with as much salt as will salt them well. Stew them over a slow fire till they are well done, and there is no liquor remaining. Let them stand to cool, and then put them into nice clean pots. The smaller the consumption of them is likely to be, the$G SALADS, &C. smaller the pots must be, as when once they, are opened, the herbs will not keep at farthest more than three weeks. When the herbs are quite soft in the pots, melt some butter, and when it is no more tnan luke-warm, pour it over the herbs. Let them stand till the butter is well congealed, then tie paper over the pots, and set them in a place neither too hot nor too cold. They will keep till Easter, and'are very useful during the winter. When wanted for soup, put as much as there is occasion for into some broth, made without salt, aud the soup is prepared at once. If to be used as sauce, put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, boil them very quick, and add three yolks of eggs with some milk. This sauce may be served with hard eggs. The best time for preserving these herbs is about the enu of September. SALADS. Salad herbs are cooling and refreshing, and make a grace- ful appearance on the dinner-table. The principal herbs used in the compounding of salads are—Lettuce, Cress, Mustard, Radishes, Sorrel, Parsley, young Onions, Spinage-tops, Corn-salad, American Cress, Mint, En- dive, Celery, young Beets, Beet-root (after being boiled), "Water Cresses, &c. &c. Let the herbs be fresh gathered, nicely trimmed, and repeatedly washed in salt and water. When well drained, properly picked and cut, arrange them in the salad-dish ; hut never dress a salad till just before it is wanted, as it will flatten and lose its light appearanee by standing.57 SALADS; A variety of salads rriay be prepared as follows:— 1. Spinage, parsley, sorrel, lettuce, and a'few onions. 2. Lettuce, Spin age-tops, penny-royal, sorrel, mus- tard, cress, and a few onions. 3. Lettuce, mustard, cress, sorrel, young onions, and parsley. 4. Lettuce, American cress, onions, parsley, mustard, radishes, and corn-salad. 5. Endive, lettuce, celery, parsley, and onions. 6. Lettuce, celery, beet-root, endive, parsley, cress, and onions. 208. Salad for the Winter. Take young tender colewort plants, sorrel, lePiice, endive, celery, parsley, full-giown onions, which are better to cut and eat with salads iri winter than young ones, and season them well with salt, cream, and vinegar. Add sugar, if approved. 209. Boiled Salad. Take boiled or baked onions (if Portugal the better), some baked beet-root, cauliflower or brocoli, and boiled celery, or French Beans, or any of these articles, with the com- mon salad dressing; add to this, to uive it an enticing ap- pearance, and to give some of the crispness and freshness so pleasant in salad, a small quantity of raw endive, or lettuce and chervil, or burnet, strewed on the top. This is considered more Wholesome than the raw salad, and is much esteemed. 210. Dressing for Salad. Boil a couple of eggs for twelve minutes, and put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes ; the yolks must be quite cold and hard, or they will not incorporate with the ingredients. Rub them through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, or very smooth in a basin, and mix them58 SALADS. with a table-spoonful of water, or very rich cream, then add two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter; when these are well mixed, add, by degrees, a tea-spoonful of salt, the same of made mustard, and a little powdered lump sugar; when these are smoothly united, add very gra- . dually three table-spoonsful of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients till thoroughly incorporated with them. Put Ibis sauce in the dish, and lay the cut herbs lightly orer it, and garnish with beet-root sliced and marked, lings of the white of eggs, young radishes, &c. Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the bowl, and do not *lir up the salad till it is to be eaten. Onions may be served separately on a small dish. 211. Dressing for Salad. Take the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard, a dessert-spoonful of grated Parmesan or strong Cheshire cheese, a little made mustard, a dessert-spoonful of Tarragon vinegar, and a large spoonful of catsup. When well incorporated add two spoonsful of salad oil, and one spoonful of vinegar, then beat it well. This mixture must not be poured upon the salad, but left at the bottom of the dish. 212 To Dress Cucumbers Rate. Pare and slice them thin into a basin of spring water with an onion, drain them between two plates and sprinkle them with salt, add pepper and vinegar. They may be dressed as salad by mixing a little olive-oil with a little mustard, ami adding pepper, salt, and vinegar to the taste. 213. Cucumbers Dressed Raw, Pare them and as yen cut them score the ends that they may be in small bits as if slightly chopped, add some small young onions, Cayenne pepper, salt, a little ginger, the juice of half a good lemon and some vinegar. This is an excellent way of using them, and seldom dis- agrees with the stomach.SAUCES, &c. 214. To Melt Butler, which is rarely well done, though a very essential Article. Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher; put it into a small saucepan, and twp or three table spoonsful of hot water, boil it quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water, requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. A more economical and plain way of making it is to take about quarter of a pint of water, dredge into it as much flour as will make it a proper thickness, boil it, and then stir in about two ounces of butter till well mixed. Do not set it on the fire afterwards. 215. Melted Butter. Cut two ounces of bulter into small pieces, that it may melt more easily, and mix better; put it into a very clean pint saucepan, with a large tea-spoonful of flour, and two table-spoonsful of milk, when well mixed, add six table- spoonsful of water; hold it over the fire, and shake it round almost constantly the same way, till it begins to simmer, then let it stand quietly and boil up. Itshonld be of the thickness of good er am. Obs.—M.lk mixes with the butter much more easily and more intimately than water alone can be made to do. N. B. If the butter oils, put a spoonful of cold water to it, and stir it with a spoon ; if it is verv much oiled, it must be poured backwards and forwards from the saucepan to the boat, till it is right again.60 SAUCES, &C. 216. White Sauce. Stew with n little water, a bit of lemon peel, some sliced onion, some white pepper corns, a little mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it, and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour, salt to the taste. 217. White Sauce, Take half a pint of cream and quarter of a pound of butteF, stir them over the fire one way till it be lb ck; then add a spoonful of mushroom pickle; pickled or fresh mushrooms may be added. 218. White Sauce Take half a pint or more of stock which has been prepared from ivory powder, set it on the fire in a saucepan, wi ll a few small mushrooms, a bit of mace, lemon-peel, white pepper, and salt; let it simmer till it tastes well of the seasoning, then take out the pepper corns, mace, and lemon-peel, and add quarter of a pint of cream ; if not thick enough, a little potato flour and butter may be added, stir it on the fire till ready to boil, then put in a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 219* Rice Sauce. Wash quarter of a pound of rice in warm water, then set it on the fire in a pint of milk, with a little onion sliced, white pepper corns, and mace, and a little horse-radish; when the rice is quite tender, take out the spice, and rub the rice through a sieve into a clean stew pan : if too thick, put a little cream or milk to it. 220. Mushroom Sauce. Pick and chop a pint of young mushrooms, put them into a. saucepan with a piece of butter, some salt and pepper, let them stew till tender, then have ready brown gravy, made •f vegetable or mushroom broth, to pour on them.61 SAUCES, &C. 221. Mushroom Sauce, White. Clean half a pint of young- mushrooms, take off the skins by rubbing them with salt; put them in a stew-pan with a little salt, half a pint of cream, a little mace or nutmeg : thicken the whole with a little flour and butter; let them boil, stirring them constantly, to pre\ ent them from curdling, 222. Currant Sauce. Boil two ounces of dried currants in a pint of water five minutes, then add the crumb of a roll, a lew' cloves or mace, and some butter, stirring it till it becomes perfectly smooth, 223. Piquant Sauce. Put two sliced onions into a stew-pan, with a piece of but-, ter, a carrot, turnip, parsnip, a little thyme, sorrel, basil, two eschalots, a clove of garlic, and some parsley; turn it over the fire till well coloured ; then add a little flour moistened with a little water, and a spoonful of vinegi r, let it boil gently a few minutes - thenskim and strain it through a sieve, season with pepper and salt. 224. Russian Sauce. To four spoonsful of grated horse-radish, put two tea** spoonsful of patent mustard a little salt, one tea-spoonful of sugar, and vinegar sufficient to coyer theingredi nts, 225. Fennel Sauce. Take a little fennel and parsley, wash and boil them till they become tender, drain and chop them fine; put all together into melted butter just when it is wanted, as the herbs lose their colour by standing. 226. Gooseberry Sauee. Put some gooseberries into cold water, set them on the fire, and let them simmer very carefully till tender; then drain them and add a little juice of sorrel, a little ginger and some melted butter. It is very good made with plain F62 SAUCES, &C. melted butter and sugar only, or with a little boiled parsley chopped small and put in. 2*27. Mint Sauce, Take young mint, pick and wash it clean, then chop it fine, put it into a basin, sprinkle it well with sngar, and pour in Vinegar to the taste. 228. Onion Sauce. Boil some large onions in water till they are tender, cfiangr ing the water twice ; put them into a colander; whew drained, pass them through the colander with a wooden spoon, put them into a clean saucepan, with an ounce of butter, a little salt, and a gill of cream; stir all together till it is ot a good thickness. 229. Brown Onion Sauce. Slice some large mild Spanish onions, fry them in butr ter over a slow fire, add some brown gravy, pepper, and salt, Cayenne, and a bit of butter rolled in browned flour ; skim it, and put in a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, or a dessert-spoonful of walnut pickle; it may be flavored with any pungent vinegar, minced eschalot, or made mus? tard ; or made more mild, by using celery, turnip, or cucumber, and only half the quantity of onions. 230. Sage and Onion Sauce. Slice two mild Spanish onions and a few sprigs of sage, stew them in a little water ten minutes, put in a tea-spoonful of salt and pepper, and two ounces of bread-crumbs, mix well together, then pour to it half a pint of vegetable broth, gravy, or melted bufter, stir well together, and simmer it a few minutes longer. 231. A common simple Sauce. Put a few raspings of bread in a saucepan, with two escha- lots chopped, or a little sweet leek, a little butter, half a spoonful of yinegar, pepper, and salt, and three spoonsful of63 SAUCES, &C. Vegetable! broth, or mushroom liquor, boil it Up a moment or two, but do not let it be too thick. 232. Apple Sauce. Pare and core some good baking apples, put them in a saucepan with very little water, cover the pan and set it oh a moderate fire, simmer till the apples are soft, drain the water well from them, and stir iu a little butter and moist sugar. Serve it hot. 233. Bread Sauce. Boil a small onion sliced, with a little mace and white pep- per, iu water, till the onion be quite soft; strain, and pour the water migrated white bread, and cover it; mash ii and put it in a saucepan, with a good piece of butter, some cream, and a little salt; boil the whole up together, and serve it hot. 234. To make Parsley Sauce when no Parsley Leaves are to be had. Tie up a little parsley seed in a bit of clean muslin, and boil it ten miuutes in some water; use this water to melt the butter, and throw into it a little boiled spinage minced, to look like parsley. 235. Caper Sauve. Take some capers, chop half of them vefy fine, put the rest in whole, chop some parsley with a little grated bread and salt, put them into melted butter, and let them boil up. 236. An excellent Substitute for Caper Sauce. Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become of a bad color, cut but do not chop it fine; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful ot salt, and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar; let it boil, then serve it up. Pickled cucumber cut in small bits and put into melted butter, is also a very good sub- stitute for caper sauce.SAUCES, &C, 64 237. Egg Sauce. Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces; then put them to melted butter, but do not boil it up afterwards. 238. Lemon Sauce. Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, put them into melted butter, and give it one boil. 239. Celery Sauce, White. Clean two heads of nice white eelery, shred it rather fine ; slew it in a pint of water and a tea-spoonful of salt till quite tender, mix an ounce of butter with a table-spoonful of flour, add quarter of a pint of good cream, and give it a boil up, stirring it all the time. Add a squeeze of lemon- juice. 240 Another Way. Cut small three heads of nice clean white celery, and an onion sliced, put them in a clean saucepan with a small lump of butter, sweat them over a very slow fire till quite tender, then put in a spoonful of flour, quarter of a pint of water, salt and pepper, and a little cream or milk; boil it quarter of an hour, and pass it through a small hair sieve with the back of a clean wooden spoon. 241. Cucumber Sauce. Chop small two or three pickled cucumbers, add a little grated lemon-peel, a little butter, salt, and pepper, a little flour, with two spoonsful of water or vegetable broth, just let it boil, then stir in two table-spoonsful of good cream or some brown gravy. It should be served up immediately. 242. Queen1 s Sauce. Simmer some crumbs of bread in a little vegetable broth, till quite thick and smooth, then add a few pounded sweet almonds, and the yolks of two hard boiled eggs pounded very fine, add pepper and salt, and a sufficient quantity ofSAticfcs, &c. 65 boiled cream to make it a proper thickness, make it hot without boiling* 243. Sorrel Sauce, Pound sorrel sufficient to draw two spoonsful of juice, mix with it some butter, worked with a little flour, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs. Make it hot without boiling. 244. Pdrsley Sauce, Wash and pick some parsley very clean; put a tea-spoon- ful of salt into half a pint of boiling water, boil the parsley about seven minutes, drain it on a sieve, mince it quite fine, then bruise it to a pulp, put it in a sauce-boat, and mix with it, by degrees, about half a pint of good melted butter. 245. Cheap Gravy, Boil half a pint of water with an onion sliced in it, a little salt, and whole pepper, add to it half a pint of ginger beer, (see No. ), brown a little butter with a little flour in a frying-pan, then pour in the mixture, with the addition of catsup, if approved : when well boiled, strain it. 246. Another. Brown a little flour and butter in the frying-pan, and add, by degrees, as much water, in which mushrooms, or mush- room peels and stalks have been boiled, as will make it a proper thickness; season with pepper and salt. 247. Thickening for Sauce; what the French call Roux. Brown —Melt some butter very slowly, stir into it browned flour till it is the thickness of paste, stir it well together with a wooden spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes, till it is quite smooth and a fine yellowish brown; this must be done very gradually and patiently, for if the fire be too66 SAUCES, &C. hot it will become bitter ; pour it into a jar or basin, and keep it for use. It will keep good a fortnight in summer, and longer in winter. A large spoonful is generally enough to thicken a quart of gravy; if at all burnt, it will spoil every thing it is put into. When cold it should be thick enough to cut with a knife like a solid paste. White.—Melt some good sweet butter slowly, and stir into it the best sifted flour till like a thin but firm paste ; stir it over a slow fire quarter of an hour, but do not let it brown. The latter is used for thickening white sauces. The browned flour is easily prepared by laying a quantity of fine flour on a dish, and placing it before the lire, or in a moderate oven, till it is sufficiently browned, and turning it frequently, that it may be equally coloured. 248. Oiled Bui ter. Put some fresh butter into a saucepan, set it a distance from the fire, so that it may melt gradually, till it becomes an oil, and pour it off quietly from the dregs. Obs.—This will supply the place of olive-oil, and by some is preferred to it, either for salads or frying. 249. To make Mustard. Rub out the lumps of the mustard w ith the back of a spoon, then add some salt and boiling water, beating it till per- fectly smooth; keep it covered close in a cool place, wipe the glass clean round the edges when there has been any used. 250. To make Mustard for immediate use. Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees till it be quite smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep well. A tea-spoonful of sugar to half a pint of mustard, is a great improvement. 251. Kitchen Pepper. One ounce of ginger, ten cloves, pepper, cinnamon, mace.a SAVOURY TIES, PUDDINGS, &C. and nutmeg, of each half an ounce, and six ounces of salt; mix all these well, and keep the mixture very dry. It is a great improvement to ail brown sauces. SAVOURY PIES, PUDDINGS, &c. 252. Herb Pie. Take lettuce, spinage, beets, a little parsley, and a little sweet leek, (or a small onion and a leaf or two of sage), cut them, and season with pepper and salt, lay them in a dish with some butter and some water, put a cup in the middle of the dish, lay a crust over and bake it; when the pie is enough, beat two or more eggs, take out the cup and pour in the eggs, lay on the crust again, apd set it in the oven a minute or two before it is taken to the table. 253. Herb Pie. Take lettuce, beets, leeks, spinage, and parsley, of each a handful, give them a boil, then chop them small, have ready a quart of groats and two or three onions boiled in a cloth, put all together in a frying-pan with half a pound of butter, a little salt, and a few apples cut thin, stew them over the fire a few minutes, fill your dish and lay over it a good crust—or bake it in a raised crust. The above quantity will make a large pie. 254. Herb Pie. Pick a haudful of parsley, the same quantity of spinage, two lettuces, mustard, and cresses, white beet leaves, and a small onion, wash and boil them a little, drain, press out the water, cut them small, mix and lay them in a dishSAVOURY PIES, PUDDINGS, &C. 68 sprinkled with salt. Mix a batter with a little flour, two eggs well beaten, half a pint of cream or good milk, pour it on the herbs, cover it with a paste, and bake it. 255. Force-meat Pie. Take of beets and parsley each a handful, half the quan- tity of leeks cut small, quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, about two ounces of butter rolled in flour, make the whole into balls; add water to keep them moist. Season with pepper and salt, and cover with paste. 256. Stewed Herb Pie. Cut young carrots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mush- rooms, pease, onions, lettuces, parsley, celery, or any of them you have; make the whole into a nice stew, with a large piece of butter, some pepper and salt, and a very little water. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from sink- ing. When baked, open the lid, take out the cup or dish, and pour in the stewed herbs. 257. Potato Pie. Put a layer of sliced potatoes in a dish, then a layer of eggs boiled hard and cut in slices, and a few' chopped onions, put in three ounces of butter cut in small pieces, quarter of a pint of water, season w ith pepper and salt; put a paste over and bake it; when baked, melt a little butter in a saucepan, add to it a little hot water, and if liked, a spoon- ful of mushroom catsup, pour it into the pie. The onions may be emitted if more agreeable. 258. Potato Pic. Cut the potatoes into squares, with one or two turnips, sliced; add butter and water just to cover the potatoes, season with pepper and salt, and then cover them with paste. A little walnut or mushroom catsup may be added. An onion sliced, and a little dried sage may be used instead of the turnips.69 SAVOURY PIES, PUDDINGS, &C. 259. Potato Pie Take two pounds of potatoes, pare and cut them, season with pepper and salt to the taste; put them into a disli with one ounce of butter and two tea-spoonsful of the best olive-oil: pour in water sufficient to cover them, put over them a paste, and bake it. 260. Potato Pasty. Peel, boil, and mash potatoes as fine as possible, mix them with salt, pepper, and a good piece of butter ; make a paste, roll it out thin like a large puff, and put in the potatoes, fold over one half, pinching the edges: bake it in a moderate oven. 261. Mushroom Pie. Peel some mushrooms, and if rather large cut them in pieces, take about the same quantity of potatoes, pared and sliced, season them with pepper, and salt, add some butter broken in small pieces, put in a little water, cover it with a good common paste, and bake it. Stew the parings and stalks of the mushrooms half an hour in some water, then strain it, and when the pie is baked, put in the gravy. 262. Carrot Pie. Slice as many carrots as will fill your dish, season them with pepper and salt, putina good lump of butter, and a little water; cover it with a paste, and bake it. 263. Onion Pie. Chop some onions small, rub in some dried sage, season with pepper and salt, put them in a dish with a good lump of butter and a little water ; boil some apples and mash them up with a little sugar, lay them upon the onions, put a I paste over and bake it. 264. Sage and Onions with Buttered Toast. Half boil some sage and onions in two waters, then frySAtOURY PIES, PLDDIKGS, &C. 70 them in butter, and season with pepper and salt, lay the mixture on buttered toast with a little brown gravy. It is yei y good with mustard and apple-sauce. A little water iii which pease, or asparagus have been boiled poured upon the toast is an improvement. 265. A Savoury Pudding. Take the crust oft’ a two-penny loaf, pour some boiling milk on it, cover it, and let it stand till cold, crush the bread very fine, add pepper, salt, four eggs, quarter of a pound of butter^ a few oilions chopped small, a little thyme, sage, and marjoram, bake it in a dish in the oven. This is very good eaten with potatoes. 266. A Groat Pudding. Pick and wash a pint of groats, and put them in a dish with a quart of water, a large onion chopped small, a little sage, sweet marjoram, a good lump of butter, and a little pepper and salt. 267. A Bread Pudding with Onions. Take the crumb of a penny-loaf and a middle-sized onion chopped s nail, a little sage pepper, and salt, mix these up with two eggs and a little milk, lay a good puff paste in a dish, and bake it in a quick oven. 268. }jushroom Patties. Put some water or vegetable broth in a stew pan with pep- per, salt, parsley, green onions, and a handful of chopped mushrooms well cleaned ; boil them over a stove or slow fire till thick ; beat six eggs or more according to your quantify, and mix all together, adding a few bread-crumbs. Then butter some small rups, put in the mixture, and bake the patties quick; put them into a dish, and serve them up with white sauce. 269. Vegetable Pie. Take some potatoes, turnips, carrots, celery, and oneSAVOURY PIES, PUDDINGS, ScC. 71 onion, cut tliem in pieces, and season them well with pepr per and salt, add some butter, cut in small pieces, and some water, cover it with a crust, and bake it. A little tapioca boiled in water to a jelly and poured into the pie when baked, is a great improvement: asparagus, or sea-kale is a pleasant addition. This pie is very good when co}d. 270. Turnip Pie. Take turnips, peel and boil them, but before they are enough, add some onions, ^bout half boiled, clipp them up together, with pepper, salt, and butter, put them in your dish with some of the water the turnips were boiled in, make a paste as for a potato-pie, cover it oyer, and bake it; when enough, add some more of tire water in which the turnips were boiled, if requisite. 271. Mushroom Dumpling. I.ine a basin with paste, put some sliced mushrooms, some bread-crumbs, a piece of batter, some pepper, salt, and a little water; cover with paste and boil it one hour and a hulf. It is also very good baked. 272. Onion Dumpling. Peel and boil six small onions, chop th em small, put to them some bread-crumbs, a little dried sage and thyme, add salt, pepper, and butter to your taste, bojl in a basin, as the i above. 273. Potato Pudding. Peel five pounds of potatoes, one pound of onions, and half a gill of groats, chop them small, tie them up in a cloth, boil them three or four hours. When boiled, season to your taste with pepper, salt, and butter. 274. Savoury Raised Pies. Take some cold plain omelet, and some hard boiled eggs, cut I in small pieces, a few sliced potatoes and mushrooms, season them with pepper and salt, put them into good raised crusts72 SAVOURY PIES, rUDDINGS, &C. with a dessert-spoonful of water in each, and some bits of butter on the top, close them up, and bake them. When they are enough, have ready some gravy made in the follow- ing manner, to put in each pie:—Boil some ivory powder in water the same as for jelly, the day before you want to use it; take the clear part, and boil it up with the liquid in which the mushroom stalks and parings have been stewed, strain it and put it in the pies with a small funnel, a small hole being made for the purpose in the top of each pie. These pies are very Rood cold, and may be made with- out the potatoes and mushrooms. 275. Pease Pudding. Wash the pease very well in warm water, and if whole, steep them two hours ; tie them up loosely, and boil them till they will pulp through a wire sieve, then add salt, pep- per, and two well-beaten eggs, stir in a good piece of but- ter, and tying it up firm, boil half an hour. Turn it out of the cloth, and serve it up with melted butter in a boat. 276. Herb Pudding. Steep a quart of groats in warm water an hour, put in half a pound of butter cut in little bits; take spinage, beets, and parsley, a handful of each, three or four leeks, three onions chopped small, a few apples, three sage-leaves cut fine, and a little salt, mix all well together, and tie it close in a cloth; boil it two hours, and take it up to loosen the string a little w hen boiling. Three quarters of a pound of rice may be used instead of groats, if liked. 277. A Green-bean Pudding. Boil and blanch some beans when old and mealy, beat them in a mortar with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg; a little spinage-juice will give a finer color, but it is as well without, boil it an hour in a basin that will just hold it; pour parsley and butter over. 278. Onion and Sage Pasty. Boil some onions, fresh sage, and a little parsley; chop them together, add some butter, pepper, and salt. Enclose them in paste, and when baked, pour in a little hot water.73 PREPARATIONS OF CHEESE, &C, 279. Toasted Cheese with Onions. Peel some onions, cut them in two, and boil them a little, changing the water once, then chop them and put them in the oven with a little pepper, salt, and butter; cover them, and let them stew till tender; when sufficiently done, spread them on a dish and coyer them well with good toasting cheese cut in thin slices, without the cru6t; toast it rather quick, and serve it up hot. This is an excellent dish, 280. Macaroni with Cheese. Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of milk till tender, then drain the milk frpui it, and put it in a dish over some good grated cheese, lay some bits of butler upon it, cover it with grated cheese and toast it, A layer of bread, crumbs may be put over the macaroni before the cheese, ;f preferred. 281, Macaroni with Parmesan Cheese. Boil four ounces of macaroni till it be quite tender, lay it on a sieve to drain ; then put it in a pan, with about a giU of good cream, a lurup of butter rolled in flour, boil it five minutes, put it on a plate, lay all over it Parmesan cheese toasted ; send it to the table on a water-plate, for it soor goes cold. 282. A Welsh Rabbit (or Rare Bit.) Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it; toast a *lice of cheese on one side, lay that next the bread, arid G74 PREPARATIONS OF CHEESE, &C. toast the other side with a salamander; rub mustard over* and serve it very hot, covered. 283. A Welch Rabbit. Cut a slice of bread about half an inch thick, pare off the crust, and toast it very slightly on one side so as just to brown it, without making it hard or burning it. Cut a slice of good rich mellow cheese, quarter of an inch thick, not so big as the bread by half an inch on each side; pare off the rind, and lay it on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster ; carefully watch it, that it does not burn, and stir it with a spoon, to prevent a pellicle (or thin skin) forming on the surface. Have ready good mustard, pepper, and salt. 284. A Scotch Rabbit. Toast a slice of bread on both sides of a fine light brown, butter it, toast a slice of cheese on both sides and lay it o» the bread. 285. A Ramahin. Take an equal quantity of Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, beat it fine with some fresh butter, (two ounces to half a pound of cheese), then add the crumb of white bread soaked in cream, three well-beaten yolks of eggs and one white, stir all together, and bake it in the dish you intend to serve it in quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. 286. Braised Cheese. Melt some slices of good rich cheese in a small dish over steam or a lamp, adding butter, pepper, (and mustard, if chosen); have ready soft toasts in a hot water-dish, or cheese-dish over hot water, and spread the cheese on them. 287- Fondue. Take half a pound of good grated cheese, the crumb of a roll steeped in hot milk, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the yolks of three eggs well beaten, mix all to*preparations oe cheese, &<:. 76 gether very weiil, then add the whites beaten to a frothy immediately before you put it in the overt* Bake it in a dish or mould in a quick oven; it has the appearance of a pudding, and is excellent. 288. Ro sled Cheeset Grate three ounces of rich Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, anti three ounces of butter; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper ; toast some bread and cut it into proper pieces, lay the mixture thick upon them, and set them in a Dutch oven before the tire covered with a dish till hot through, then remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little* Serve as hot. as possible. 289. Cheese Todst. Mix some fresh butter, made mustard, and salt into si mass; spread it on fresh-made thin toast; and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon it. 290. Potted Cheese. To a pound of grated cheese add three ounces of butter, a little mace, Cayenne pepper, and a tea-spoonful of irms* lard; beat all together in a mortar, put it in small jars, and pour clarified butter over. Keep it in a cool dry place. 291. Stewed Cheese. To a pint of water take four middling-si zed onions, three ounces of butter, pepper, and salt ; stew them till the onions are quite enough, then shred in quarter of a pound of good old cheese but not faded, keep stirring it about one minute after the cheese is put in ; have bread ready toasted on a dish and pour it over. 292. Cheese Fritters. Found some good cheese with bread-crumbs, raw yolks76 SANDWICHES of eggs and butter; make this mixture into small oval balls, dip them in stiff fritter batter, and fry them. SANDWICHES. 293. Cheese Sandwich. Take two-thirds of grated Cheshire cheese, and one of butter, a little cfeam, and a small proportion of made mustard; pound them in a mortar; cover small slices of bread with this, then lay a slice of bread over each, press th m gently together, and cut them in small pieces. A little Cayenne pepper may be added. 294. Beet-root SandtOick. Take slices of fried beet-root, as prepared in No. 192, and lay it between bread and butter, with mustard. 295. Egg Sandwich. Take fresh-laid eggs, boil them hard, put them in cold water till quite cold, then peel them, and after taking a little of the white off each end, cut them in slices and lay them between bread and butter with a little salt, and mustard, if approved. 296. Fried Egg Sandwich. Beat up some eggs, season them with pepper and salt, fry them in bntter as a pancake; when cold, cut it in small pieces, and put them between bread and butter. 297. Omelet Sandwich. Make a light batter, by beating up four eggs with twoW7DDINGS, &Ci 11 fable-spoonsful of water, and adding some bread-crumbs £ season with pepper and salt, fry it in small fritters about the size of a crown-piece. When they are cold, put then? between bread and butter with mustard. PUDDINGS, &c. 298. Apple Puddincf. Pare and core some good baking apples, put them in a pan* with very little water, cover the pan, and set it on & moderate fire, turning it now and then, that the apples may soften regularly. When nearly soft, drain the water from them, throw them in a basin to cool, stirring in a little sugar ; make a good common paste, roll it out, put it in a cloth, and enclose the apples in it; tie it up close, and boil it in plenty of water. If a large padding, it will take two hours to boil it. 299. Apple Dumplings. Pare some large good baking apples, cut them in two, take out the cores, and fill up the soace with sugar, put the halves together, and enclose them in paste; tie up each dumpling in a cloth, and boil them from three quar- ters of an hour to an horn , according to the size. 300. Baked Apple Pudding. Put five large apples into an earthen pot, set it in a pan of water on the fire, and let them simmer till they will pulp through a colander; grate into the pulp the yellow rind of * lemon and’ squeeze in the juicejput in two large spoorts--78 PUDDINGS, &C. tul of grated bread, six ounces of butter melted, sugar t# the taste, and six eggs well beaten ; bake it in a dish with puff paste. 301. Baked Apple Pudding. Peel and core ten large apples, boil them as for sauce, stir in quarter of a pound of butter till cold, beat five eggs and put in, the rind of a lemon grated and juice, sweeten it, aud bake it in putt' paste. 302. Apple Pudding. Put to a pint of cold cream enough of grated biscuit or French roll to thicken it, grate in some nutmeg, cut in some candied orange peel, sugar to the taste, and eight eggs well beaten with a little salt. Lay a puff paste in u dish, and slice in twelve pippins upon it, laid in regular layers; pour in the other ingredients, and bake it three quarters of an hour. Serve it up with powdered sugar sifted on the top. 303. Apple Pudding. Pare and grate three quarters of a pound of juicy apples ; put to them six ounces of butter beat cold to a cream* four beaten eggs, two Naples-biscuits pounded, the rind of a lemon grated, sugar to the taste, and a spoonful of orange-flower water. Bake in puff paste, and when done, strew candied orange sliced over the top. 304. Green Apple Pudding. Scrape some Keswick codlings, (Westmoreland pippins) as for a tart, rub them through a sieve with as much juice of spinage as will make the pudding green, add four eggs well beaten, quarter of a pound of butter, about two ounces of bread-crumbs, and a little lemon-peel chopped ; if the apples are not sharp, a little lemon-juice may b« added ; put a paste round the dish and bake it. 30a. Apricot, Gooseberry, or Apple Pudding. Put the fruit in ajar, set it in a saucepan of water on thePUDDINGS, &C. 70 Ire till it will pulp through a colander; to a pint of pulp put the yolks of six eggs, the whites of four, quarter of a pound ofbutter melted, three spoonsful of rose-water, and sugar to the taste; stir all well together, and bake it in a dish in puli' paste half an hour in a quick oven. 306. A Swiss Apple Pudding. Place alternate layers of sliced apples and sugar, with a very thin layer of rusk, pounded and soaked in milk; finish with the powdered rusks, and pour melted butter over the pudding. Grate sugar over it when to be served. 307. Nottingham Apple Pudding, Peel six good apples, take out the core with the point of a small knife, or an apple-corer, but be sure to leave the apples whole; fill up where you took the core from with sugar, place them in a pie-dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, prepared as for batter pudding, and bake aw hour in a moderate oven. 308. Boston Apple Pudding. Peel one dozen of good apples, take out the cores, cut them small, put them into a stew-pan that will just hold them, with a little water, a little cinnamon, and the pee! of a lemon; stew over a slow fire till quite soft, drain the water from them, then sweeten with moist sugar, and pass it through a hair sieve; add to it the yolks of four eggs and one white, quarter of a pound of good butter, half a nut- meg, the peel of a lemon grated, and the juice of one lemon ; beat all well together, line the inside of a pie-dish with good puff paste, put in the pudding, and bake it half an hour. 309. Apple Pudding with Cream. Grate four large apples, add to them quarter of a pound of Naples-biscuits grated, a little powdered cinnamoR, a pint of cream, sugar to the taste, a little salt, and eight eggs well beaten, leaving out half of the whites. Bake it, with a crust round the edge of the dish, for an hour ; when done, sift powdered sugar over it.PUDDINGS, &cr. £0 310. Apple and Hice Pudding. Take three or four apples pared and cut small, put them hi a pan with about two or three ounces of butter, and thiec quarters of a pound of rice, washed and picked clean, adding as much water as will keep them from burning ; when enough, add sugar to the taste. 311. Almond Pudding. Blanch six ounces of sweet almonds, and a dozen hitter ones, beat them in a marble mortar, with orange-flower water, add the juice aud rind of one lemon grated, quar- ter of a pound of butter melted, six yolks of eggs and four whites, a pint of cream, with sugar to the taste; bake it half an hour in puff paste, or butter some cups and fill them half full, and bake them. 312. Almond Pudding. Take half a pound of sweet almonds with a few bitter ones, blanch and beat them, half a pound of clarified butter, half a pint of cream, quarter of a pound of Savoy biscuits, the yolks of six eggs and half the whites; sweeten it to your taste. 313. Apricot Pudding. Pare ten or twelve apricots, scald, stone, and bruise them, with some of the kernels, put a pint of boiling cream to some white bread-crumbs, when cold add theyolks of four eggs, and sugar to the taste; bake it half an hour in puff paste. 314. Arrow-root Pudding. To a piut of boiling milk add two ounces of arrow-root,, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk, set it on fhe fire and let it boil, constantly stirring it; when cool add three eggs, a few bitter almonds blanched and beaten* lemon-peel, and sugar; bake it in’a moderate61 PUDDINGS, &C. 315* Boiled Arrow-root Pudding. Set a pint of milk c,n the fire, mix two ounces of arrow- root with a little cold milk quite smooth like starch, when the milk is near boiling pour it upon the arrow-root, stir- ring; it all the time, return it into the pan and set it on the tire a few minutes to thicken, but do not let it boil, stirring it briskly; when cold, add three eggs well beaten and a little salt, boil it an hour in a buttered basin. Serve it Up with melted butter and currant-jelly* 316. Batter Pudding* Take six ounces of fine flour, a little Salt, and three eggs, beat up well with a little milk, added by degrees till the batter is quite smooth, make it the thickness of cream, put into a buttered pie-dish, and bake three quarters of an hour, or into a buttered and floured basin, covered with a cloth and tied tight, boil an hour and a half* 317. Common Batter Pudding. Beat two eggs very well, put to them about the third of a pint of milk, a little salt, and as much flour as will make it a stiff' batter, when quite smooth thin it by degrees with the remainder of the milk, boil it an hour and a quarter, or butter a dish and bake it in a quick oven* 318. Yorkshire Batter Pudding. Mix some batter as above, melt some butter in a flat dish or dripping-pan, pour in the batter, and bake it in a quick oven ; when neariy enough, lay a little more butter on the top, to help it to browns cut it in squares, and serve it up, 319. A nice light Batter Pudding. Take four well-beaten eggs, one pint of new milk, four spoonsful of flour, and a little salt, mix it quite smooth, aud strain it; boil it in a basin an hour and a quarter. 320. Boiled Batter Pudding with Fruit. Beat the yolks of five and the whites of three eggs, add attJDOlN'W, SiC* §2 fey spoonsful of new milk to be taken from a quart (the quantity to be used), and a little salt, mix in s,x larger spoonsful of flour, and beat till quite smooth, add the re- mainder of the milk by degress ; put in the fruit, such as prunes, French plums, raisins or currants, and pour it into a basin well-buttered, and then dredged with flour; tie it in a cloth and boil it. This kind of pudding is very good baked, with fresh fruits, adding four spoonsful of cream, and a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger. 321. Batter Pudding without Eggs- Mix a pound of flour with a pint of milk, beat it till quite smooth, and add a little salt and some powdered ginger. Boil it in a cloth an hour and a half, N. B. If prepared ginger be used, mt quite a tea- spoonful ; it the common powdered ginger, double the quantity. T wo tea-spoonsful of tire tincture of saffron may be added, if approved. 3*22. Black-Cap Pudding. Make a fine smooth thin batter of a pint, of milk, three Well-beaten eggs, a little salt, and good fine flour; add about six ounces of currants, boil it iu a buttered basin an hour and quarter; serve it up with melted butter. 323. Bread and Rice Pudding. Boil quarter of a pound of rice in some milk till it is quite tender, put it in a basin and let it stand ill the next day. Soak some thin slices of bread an hour in cold milk, drain and mash it fine; mix it with the Fice, adding two well beaten eggs and a little salt; tie it up in a cloth, and boil it an hour. Serve it up with sweet sauce. 324. Baked Bread Pudding. Put quarter of a pound of butter to a pint of cream, or ne w milk, set it on the fire stirring it all the time, as so >u as the butter is melted, stir in it as much stale white bread83 ruDOINGS, Sec. grated as will make it moderately thick ; then pour it into a basin to cool, put in three eggs well beaten, a little salt, nutmeg or mace, and some moist sugar, butter a di^li and bake it three quarters of an hour. Half a pound pf cur- rants may be added. 325. Small Bread Puddings. Pour a pint of warm milk on a pint of grated bread, stir in two ounces of butter, when nearly cold add five eggs well beaten, a little grated lemon-peel, sugar to the taste, and two table-spoonsful of orange-flower water; bake in small cups buttered, half an hour. Quarter of a pound of currants, and candied orange or lemon may be added, if approved. 326. Plain Boiled Bread Pudding. Grate white bread enough to fill a pint measure, pour upon it a pint and a half of new milk raatje scalding hot, and let it stand uncovered till cold. Work this smooth with a spoon, putin sugar to the taste, and three eggs w ell beaten with a little salt. Boil this in a basin well buttered, for an hour and a quarter.—It is very good baked. 327. Coy/imon Bread Pudding. Pour a quart of boiling milk on as much bread cut in small pieces as will soak up the mjlk, cover with a plate, and let it stand till cool, then mash the bread, and add three well-beaten eggs, mix it up well, and put it in a wet cloth floured, and boil it an hour and a half. Serve it up w ith sweet sauce. 328. A Cheap Bread Pudding. Take some pieces of stale bread, and soak them well in j hot water, then press out the water and mash the bread, | add a little powdered ginger, nutmeg, salt, and sugar, and i a few clean currants, mix the whole well together, lay it I in a buttered dish, with a few' bits of butter on the top; i bake it in a moderate oven, and it will be good either hot i or cold. A spoonful of rose-water will be an improvement.84 PUDDINGS, &C. 329. Bread Pudding. Boil a pinf of milk with two ounces of butter and a little mace, pour it on two tea-cakes, or a French roll, when cold, beat it np well with three eggs, two spoonsful of sugar, quarter of a pound of currants, the peel of half a lemon grated and a little salt; bake or boil it, jf baked turn it out of the dish it is baked in. 330. A Bread Hasty Pudding. Set a quait of new milk on the fire, and, when scalding hot, put in grated bread, till it is about the thickness of common hasty pudding. Peat the yolks of two eggs with a little salt; lake out a few spoonsful of the milk before you put in the bread to mix with them; add this to the rest, and stir it over the fire two or three minutes. It must never be suffered to boil. Eat this with sugar, or sugar grid cold butter, It is very good without the eggs, 331. Bread Pudding. Boil a quart of new milk, wjth a little cinnamon and lemon-peel, fiye minutes, takeout the seasoning, and pour the milk on the crumbs of three two-penny rasps, or French rolls, cover it till cool, then add six well-beaten eggs, sugar, and nutmeg. It may be either boiled or baked. A Savoy pudding may be made the same way, with biscuits instead pf bread, 332. Breqd Pudding, Take a loaf of white bread, cut a hole in the bottom, add as much good milk as it will soak up, tie it in a cloth and boil it an hour, It may be improved by first boiling the milk with a little cinnamon in it, and when cold add two or three eggs before it is poured upon the loaf. Serve it up with melted butter, or sweet sauce. 333. Bread and Butter Pudding. Boil geutly for five or ten minutes a pint of good milk.PUDDINGS, &C. 85 with the peel of half a lemon, a little cinnamon, and a bay- leaf, then sweeten with good sugar: break the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three into a basin, beat them' well, and add the milk, beat all well together, and strain through a fine hair sieve; have some bread and butter cut very thin, lay a layer of it in a pie-dish, and then a layer of currants, and so on till the dish is nearly full, then pour the custard over it, and bake it half an hour. 334. Pearl-Barley Pudding. Take a pound of pearl-barley, wash it clean, put to it two quarts of new milk and half a pound of sugar, with a little nutmeg grated ; then put it into a deep dish, and bake it in a slow oven till it thickens. Take it out of the oven, beat up four eggs, mix all well together, butter a dish, pour it in, bake it again an hour, and it will be excellent. 335. Biscuit Pudding. fc cald a pint of cream or new milk, and pour it upon quar- ter of a pound of Naples biscuits, grated ; let it stand till cold, then add two spoonsful of powdered sugar, half a spoonful of flour, some orange-flower, or rose-water, a little mace or cinnamon, four yolks of eggs and two whites well beaten, with a little salt, mix all well together, butter a basin and dredge it with flour, put in the pudding and boil it one hour, sift fine sugar over, and serve it up with melted butter. 336. Butter-milk Curd Pudding. Turn three quarts of newr milk, warm from the cow, (or made milk-warm), with a quart of butter-milk, drain off the whey through a sieve, and when the curd is dry, pound it in a marble mortar, with half a pound of fine sugar, an ounce of sweet, and two or three bitter almonds, and a lemon boiled tender; when these are well beaten and mixed together, add two ounces of grated bread, quarter of a pound of butter melted, the juice of a lemon, a little salt, a tea-cupful of thick cream, five eggs with but half thePUDDING?, &C. 86 whites well-beaten, and a glass of rose-water, stir it well, and bake it in a dish or cups well buttered, turn it out carefully, and sift sugar over it. 337. Cabbage Pudding. Scald one or more nice tender cabbages, bruise and season it with a little mace or nutmeg, ginger, pepper and salt, put in some green gooseberries or barberries, aud either a few large spoonsful of swelled rice or bread-crumbs, add some butter broken in small pieces, mix it well with the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Wrap it up in a large cabbage-leaf, tie it in a cloth, and boil it an hour. 338. Castle Puddings. Take tire weight of two eggs (in the shell) in butter, the same of powdered sugar and flour, about half melt the butter in a basin before the fire, beat the eggs very well, mix the butter and sugar together, then the eggs and a little grated lemon-peel, then add the flour; butter some cups like coffee-cups with flat bottoms, fill them a little more than half full, and bake them about half an hour in a moderate oven. Serve them up with raspberry vinegar sauce. 339. Carrot Puddings. Scrape three or four carrots very small, mix them with about half a pound of bread-crumbs, pour over this three gills of boiling cream or good milk; when cold, add six eggs beaten to a froth, sugar, nutmeg, and a very little salt; bake it an hour in puff paste. 340. Carrot Pudding. Wash and scrape some carrots, and boil them till very tender in a good deal of w ater, take off’ the red part, and rub half a pound of the middle part through a sieve ; add to it four ounces of butter melted, half a pound of grated white bread, half a pint of cream, a little salt, six eggs well beaten, sugar to the taste, a wine glass of orange- f.ower water, and some candied orange or lemon-peel cutPUDDINGS, &C. 67 thin. Bake it half an hour in a dish, with puff paste lound. Sift fine sugar over it before it is served up. 341. Cheshire Pudding. Make a crust as for any other fruit pudding, roll it out a good length rather thin; spread it with raspberry-jam, or any other kind of preserved fruit, roll it np, and wrap it in a cloth ; tie it tight at each end, and boil it according to the size. It may be made without fruit, cut in slices, and preserves laid upon it. 342. Cheesecake Rice Pudding, Set quarter of a pound of ground rice, in a pint of milk, on the fire till it thickens, but not till it boils, stirring it constantly; put it in a basin with quarter of a pound of fresh butter, stirring it till the butter is melted ; throw a thin cloth over it, and let it stand till the next day, then add three eggs well beaten, with a little salt, cinna- mon, and sugar to the taste; add a spoonful of rose- water, and quarter of a pound of cun ants, well cleaned and dried. Bake it either in puff paste or without. 343. Cocoa-nut Pudding. Grate the nut, and mix with it quarter of a pound of but- ter melted, four well-beaten eggs, a little rose-water, mace, and nutmeg, sweeten to the taste; bake it in a dish with puff paste round it. 344. Charlotte Pudding. This pudding may be made of any kind of fruit, or of a mixture of such as blend well, as apple and apricot mar- malade.—Butter a mould or dish, and lay even slices of bread, two inches wide and half an inch thick, dipping each piece in clarified butter, or buttering them with cold butter ; put each piece half ever the other, and lay a piece well buttered at the bottom of the dish, cut to the size, fill the mould with apples slewed (not so much as for marmalade), with a little sugar rubbed through a sieve.PUDDINGS, &C. 88 soak slices of bread in melted butter and milk, and cover the top with them, lay on a plate and weight, and bake it in rather a quick oven; when nearly done, take off the plate and brush the top over with beaten egg, silt powdered sugar on the top, and brown it. This turned out of the mould when baked, is sometimes called an apple-loaf\ but any kind of ripe or preserved fruit may be used. 345. Cold Pudding. Take a pint of new milk and half a pint of cream, boil it with two ounces of almonds blanched and beaten, beat the yolks of six eggs and two whites, adding two spoonsful of rose-water, stir the boiling milk to the eggs, adding quar- ter of a pound ot fine sugar, boil all together on a slow fire two minutes, then put it in a cloth and tie it tight, let it drain an hour, then turn it out and beat it in a wooden bowl with a potato-masher; add some candied lemon and orange; return it into the cloth and tie it up very tight: hang it up another hour and it will be ready for use. Cover it with frothed cream with a little sugar in it. 346. Cottage Pudding. Two pounds of potatoes pared, boiled, and mashed, one pint of milk, three eggs, and two ounces of sugar, mix them well together with a little salt; bake it three quar- ters of an hotir. 347. Cowslip Pudding. Cut and pound the flowers of half a peck of cowslips, add quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits grated, three gills of thin cream, boil them a little, then beat six eggs with a little rose-water sweetened ; mix all together, butter a dish and pour it in. Bake it, and when done, sift fine sugar over it. 348. Boiled Curd Pudding. Rub the curd of two quarts of new milk well drainedPUDDINGS. &C. *9 through a sieve, mix it with six well-beaten eggs, a little cream, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, a little pounded mace, three spoonsful of bread-crumbs, three spoonsful of flour, currants and raisins half a pound each r boil it an hour in a thick well-floured cloth. 349. Cheese Curd Padding. Put a little rennet intos two quarts of milk, when it is broken put it into a coarse cloth to drain out all the whey, then rub the curd through a hair sieve, and put to it eight ounces of bread, four ounces of butter, a. little mace, ihe rind of a lemon grated, and a spoonful of rose, or orange-flower water, sweeten it, beat four eggs very well, mix all together, butter the cups, and bake them half an. hour. Half a pound of currants may be added. 350. Custard Pudding. Take two large spoonsful of fine rice flour, put to it a little salt, six eggs well beaten, some cinnamon, sugar to the taste, and a pint of cream or new milk ; stir it well, put it iu a cloth well floured, and boil it three quarters of an hour ; move it about some minutes after it is put in the pi n. 351. Small Custard Pudding. Take a pint of cream, boil it, let it stand till it be cold, then add the yolks of five or six eggs and half of the whites, two spoonsful of flour, and a lb tie lemon-peel, or cinnamon ; bake them in small cups half an hour in a slow oven. Just before yon set them in the oven, melt quarter of a pound of butter and put it in. 352. Cumberland Pudding. Boil a pint of milk, then mix a little flour and salt in it till it be about the thickness of hasty pudding ; when cool, add foure.ugs well beaten, mix it well together, and boil it an hour and a quarter, H 2PUDDINGS, &C. pa 353. Damson Dumpling. Make a good hot paste, roll it out, lay it in a basin, and put in what quantity of damsons you think proper, wet the edges of the paste, and close |it up, boil it in a cloth one hour and a half, if large two hours. You may make any kind of preserved fruit dumplings the same way. 354. A Dutch Pudding. Melt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk, mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs well beaten, and four spoonsful of yeast, set it before the fire to rise for an hour, add one pound of currants, and quarter of a pound of sugar. This is a very good pudding hot, and equally so as a cake when cold. 355. A Dumpling. Beat four eggs very well, add a spoonful of yeast, about half a pint of milk, a little salt and flour to make it as stiff as you can beat it, it must be beaten an hour; scald a wooden dish very well, then butter it and dredge it with flour, boil it an hour, and pour melted butter over it. 356. Eve’s Pudding. If you’d have a good pudding pray mind what you’re taught, Take two pennyworth of eggs when there’s twelve for a groat. Take of the same fruit, ’tis said, Eve did once cozen, "When par’d and well chopp’d, at least half a dozen ; Six ounces of bread (give a beggar the crust). And grater the crumb as small as the dust: Six ounces of currants, well cleaned from the dirt, Lest they break your poor teeth and spoil all your sport; The rind of a lemon, grated quite thin, Will do it no harm if the whole you put in. Six ounces of sugar w ill not make it too sweet. Some nutmeg add salt will make it complete :91 PUDDINGS, &C. Now boil it three hours without hurry or flutter, And then serve it up with some good melted butter* N. B. Mother Eve made this pudding so wondrous nice, That Adam cried out, “ Give me another slice” 357. Baked Gooseberry Pudding. Put some gooseberries in ajar, and set them over the fire in a pan of water till they will pulp; take a pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, stir in it an ounce and half of butter, three eggs well beaten and strained, a few bread-crumbs, or four ounces of Naples biscuits, sweeten it well, put a paste round a dish and bake it. 358. Gooseberry Pudding, Scald a quart of green gooseberries, rub them through a sieve, stir in quarter of a pound of butter, sweeten it, add two or three Naples biscuits, four eggs well beaten, mix it well, bake it half an hour. 359. Grateful Pudding. Take a pound of flour, a pound of white bread grated, and six eggs; beat the eggs up and mix with them a pint of new milk, then stir in the bread and flour, and a pound of raisins stoned, a pound of currants, half a pound of sugar, and a little ginger; mix all well together, and put it into a dish and bake it. 360. George Pudding. Boil very tender six ounces of whole rice in a small quan- tity of milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel; let it drain, then mix with it a dozen good-sized apples, boiled to pulp as dry as possible; add a glass of rose-water, the yolks of five eggs well beaten, two ounces offcandied lemon and orange, or citron cut very thin; sugar to the taste, line a mould or basin with good paste, beat the whites of the eggs to a very strong froth, and add to the other ingredients; fill the mould, and bake it of a fine brown color; turn it out of the mould when served up, make a sauce for it with a% «£>I>1NGS, &c. tea-eupml of sherbet, some sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut; simmer without boiling, and pour it to and from the saucepan till of a proper thickness, pour it on the pudding, or serve it in a boat. 361. Light German Puddings. Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream, let it stand till nearly cold, then mix two ounces of fine flour, two ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water, bake in small cups but- tered. half an hour; turn them out of the cups and serve them up the moment they are done. 362. Hard Dumplings. Mix some flour with a little salt into a stiff paste, either with milk or water, make it up into balls with a little flour, throw them into boiling water, and boil them half an hour. They are very good eaten with cold butter. A few cur- rants are a very good addition, but they require boiling a little longer. 363. Flour Hasty Pudding. Beat the yolks of two eggs with half a pint of cold new milk, and a little salt. Stir this by a little at a time into flour, and beat it to a very smooth batter. Set a pint and half of milk on the fire, and when it is scalding hot, pour in the batter, stirring it well that it may be smooth and not burn, let it be over the fire till it thickens, but it must not boil. Pour it the moment it is taken off*. This eats well with cold butter and sugar, add a little vinegar. Fine oat-meal used with the flour, an equal; quantity of each, makes this a very wholesome pudding. It is very good without the eggs, and boiled a few minutes. 364. Lemon Pudding. Take two large lemons, grate off the yellow rind very thin, then squeeze out the juice, and boil the lemons in plentyPUDDINGS, &C. 93 of water (changing the water frequently) till tender; then beat them in a mortar to a paste, add three ounces of grated bread or biscuits, four eggs well beaten, half a pint of good milk, and quarter of a pound of sugar, mix all well together, put it in a wooden dish well buttered, and boil it three quarters of an hour. 365. Lemon Pudding. Take quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and beat them, half a pound of sifted loaf-sugar, eight yolks of eggs and live whites, beat them very well, and put them to the sugar and almonds, melt quarter of a pound of butter and put in, grate the rinds of two lemons and squeeze in the juice, if the lemons do not yield much juice take three; put a puff paste round the dish, and bake it half an hour. 366. Lemon Pudding. Put half a pound of loaf-sugar and six ounces of fresh but- ter into a saucepan, set it over a slow fire till both are melted, stirring it well, as it is very liable to burn, but do not let it boil; pour it into a basin and grate the rind of a lemon into it, and leave it to cool; have ready two sponge- biscuits soaked in quarter of a pint of cream, bruise them fine, and stir them into the sugar and butter; beat the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs with a little salt, squeeze in thejjuice of a lemon, and mix it well in; lay a puli’ paste in a dish, strew it with pieces of candied lemon- peel, put in the pudding and bake it three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Sift fine sugar over it. 367. Lemon Pudding To six ounces of clarified or oiled butter, take six ounces of loaf-suuar grated, first rubbing the lumps of sugar on the rind of a large lemon till you have taken off all the outer rind ; add the juice of half the lemon, put all together in a jar, with the yolks of nine eggs well beaten, set the jar in a pan of cold water on the fire, stirring it constantly till it simmers and thickens; it is then ready for use, either for aPUDDINGS, &c. 94 pudding or cheesecakes. If cohered close, and kept in a cool place, it will keep good some weeks. 368. Lemon Pudding. Beat the yolks of four eggs, add four ounces of white sugar, rubbing some of the lumps on the rind of a lemon, to take out the essence ; boil the rind till it be soft, chang- ing the water to free it from bitterness ; then beat it in a mortar with the juice of a lemon, mix all w ith four or five ounces of butter melted ; put a paste into a shallow dish, mark the edges, and put the lemon, &c. into it, and bake it. Slide it carefully out of the dish upon another, when sent to the table. 369. Lemon Pudding. Set half a pint of new milk on the fire, when it begins to boil put in one ounce of bread crumbs, and let it boil a little, add the grated rind of a lemon, four yolks of eggs, three ounces of clarified butter, and sugar to the taste * line a shallow dish with puff paste, put in a layer of pre- serve and pour the pudding over it, and bake it half an hour. 3?0. Macaroni. Pudding* To three ounces of macaroni of the pipe kind, take a pint of new milk, a piece of lemon-peel, and a bit of cinnamon, stew it gently till tender, beat three eggs well, and mix them with half a pint of cold milk, a little salt, sugar to the taste, and a little grated nutmeg or powdered ginger, put a puff* paste round the edge of a dish, and lay a layer of the macaroni, and then a layer of preserve, such as goose- berry, or raspberry jam, orange or apple marmalade, &c. spread the remainder of the macaroni over this, and pour the milk and eggs upon it, and lay bits of butter on the top. An hour will bake it in a moderate oven. Sift sugar over it when done. 371. Millet Pudding. Put six ounces of millet, well washed, in three pints of95 PUDDINGS, &C. new milk, with a pinch of salt, set it in a moderate oven till it begins to thicken, then beat up three eggs, and add by degrees some of the milk from the millet, sugar to the taste, and a little nutmeg or cinnamon ; mix all together, and put it in the oven till done, 372. Nassau Pudding. Cover a dish with puff paste, spread it with marmalade or raspberry-jam the third of an inch thick, put eight yolks and four whites of eggs in a pan with quarter of a pound of butter and six ounces of lump sugar bruised, stir them together on a slow fire ten minutes; when cold, put it in the dish and bake it. 373. Northumberland Pudding. Make a hasty puddiug, with a pint of milk, a little salt, and flour to make it of a proper thickness; when boiled enough, pour it into a basin, cover it with a plate, and let ic stand till the next day ; then mash it well with a spoon, and add quarter of a pound of clarified butter, quarter of a pound of currants, two ounces of candied lemon cut in thin slices, anti a little augur. Bake it in tea-cups, turn them out on a dish, and serve them with raspberry vinegar sauce in a boat. 374. Oatmeal Pudding, Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best fine oatmeal; let it soak all night; the next day add two beaten eggs and a little salt, butter a basin that will just hold it, cover it tight with a floured cloth and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oatcake buttered. 375. An Orange or Lemon Pudding. Melt quarter of a pound of butter, and pour it on two ounces of grated bread ; grate in the yellow rind of two large lemons, or Seville oranges, and squeeze in the juice; put in the yolks of six eggs and four whites with sugar to96 PUDDINGS, &C. the taste. Bake it in a dish lined with puff paste, hi rather a quick oven. 376. Whittington Orange Pudding. Take half a pound of butter and melt it, half a pound of sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, mix all well together with two ounces of candied orange. Put puff paste all over the dish, and bake it half an hour. Two ounces of biscuits utay be added. 377. Oxford Dumpling, Take two ounces of grated bread, four ounces of butter» four ounces of currants, two large spoonsful of flour, a dessert spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a little pimento, or ginger in fine powder. Mix it with two eggs and a little milk into five dumplings, and fry them in butter on a slow fire of a fine yellow brown. When made with double the quantity of flour instead of bread, they are very good. They may also be made of eggs with biscuits, leaving out the whites, and made up into balls, about the size of an egg, rubbed over with the yolk, and fried a light brown. 378. Plum Pudding. Pour a pint of boiling milk on a pound of bread-crumbs, cover it with a plate quaiter of an hour, then stir well in it two ounces of butter, and sugar to your taste; when nearly cold, add six eggs well beaten, an ounce of sweet almonds and a dozen bitter ones, blanched and chopped small, a pound of raisins stoned, a pound of currants, a little gin- ger, nutmeg, or mace, and lemon-ped; a little ground rice or flour may be added if requisite, as it should he made very stiff'; boil it three hours. A little candied orange or lemon is an improvement. 379. Plum Pudding, Rub quarter of a pound of butter in three quarters of a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of raisins stoned, a pint of milk, two eggs, three spoonsful of moist sugar.97 PUDDINGS, &G. a little salt, and a small tea-spoonful of powdered ginger. Boil it four hours.—This pudding is very good without eggs, mixed up with only as much milk as will make it up very stiff, and leaving out the sugar. 380. Salford Plum Pudding. Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add a pound of currants, a pound of bread crumbs, a pound of raisins stoned and cut a little, thegrated rind ofalemon, six well beaten eggs, a little mace or nutmeg, four ounces of sugar, two ounces of candied orange sliced, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it up quile stiff: boil it in a floured cloth five hours. Serve with sweet sauce. This pudding will keep several months, boiled six hours, tied up in the cloth, and hung up folded in a sheet of cap-paper to keep out the dust, after it is cold. When to be used it must be put into a clean cloth and boiled an hour and a half. 381. Norton Plum Pudding. To a pound of bread-crumbs pour a pint of boiling milk, cover it with a plate for an hour, then stir in four ounces of butter, six eggs well beaten, a pound of raisins stoned, a pound of currants; lemon-peel, mace or nutmeg, and sugar to the taste; boil it three hours. If it be requisite to add a little flour, boil it an hour longer, 382. A good common Plum Pudding. To a pound and half of flour take five eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make it a stiff batter, add salt, Jamaica pepper, or nutmeg, and sugar to the taste, a pound of raisins and half a pound of currants; boil it four hours. 383. Carrot Pudding. Boil some carrots till they will pulp through a sieve, take quarter of a pound of the pulp, half a pound of potato boiled and mashed very flue, with a little salt, half a pound of flour, quarter < f a pound of moist sugar, quarter of a98 PUDDINGS, &C. pound of butter melted, two ounces of candied orange, and three quarters of a pound of currants; mix all well toge- ther overnight, and boil it full four hours. When the pudding is taken out of the pan, let it remain in the cloth about three minutes before you serve it up. This pudding is excellent, 384. Carrot Pudding. To three quarters of a pound of carrot, when boiled and pulped through a sieve, mix quarter of a pound of Savoy biscuits, four yolks and {wo whites of eggs well beaten, six ounces of butter beaten to cream, a little nut- meg, and two ounces of sugar, the rind of a lemon boiled till lender and pounded, and the juice of two. liuke it in puli paste, 385. Parlour Puddings. Slice half a pound of white bread, put it in a bowl with six ounces of butter, pour a pint of boiling milk upon it and let it stand uncovered ; when cool, work it well with a spoon, then add six ounces of sugar, six eggs well beaten, a little mace or nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel, a little salt, and half a pound of currants well Cleaned unddritd. Bake it in cups or patty-pans well buttered three quarters of au hour ; then turn them out on a dish, and serve them up with melted butler or sweet sauce in a boat. 386. Parsley Dumplings. Take half a pound of grated white bread, rub in quarter of a pound of butter, add six ounces of currants, a handful of parsley chopped dug, three ounces of sugar, three eggs well b»aten, some grated nutmeg, four spoonsful of rose- water, and three quarters of a pint of new milk, mix all w*ll together, and divide it into three or four dumplings, butter the cloths you tie them in, and boil them half an hour: serve with melted butter, sugar and vinegar. 337. Potato Pudding. Take a pound of potatoes, after they are boiled and peeled,PUDDINGS, &C. 99 fcml fecit them in a marble mortar, with quarler of a pound of butter. Boil an ounce of lemon-peel, and beat it in the mortar by itself; put to it the lemon-juice and mix it with the potatoes, add to them six yolks of eggs and four whites, with sugar to the taste. Put it into a dish with a crust round the edge, and bake it in a slow oven. 3S8. Potato Padding. To half a pound of boiled potatoes, beaten in a marble mortar with two ounces of butter, add quarter of a pint of cream, the rind of u lemon grated, and the juice strained in, sugar to the taste, two ounces of almonds beaten with orange-flower water, some candied orange-peel cut thin, and the yolks of six eggs well beaten, with a little salt. Bake this in a dish, with a puff* crust round the edge of it, for an hour, in a moderate oven. Sift powdered sugar over before it is sent to table. 389. Potato Pudding. Mix twelve ounces of boiled potatoes, well dried and mashed, one ounce of butter, a little salt, quarter of a pint of milk, and one ounce of good cheese grated fine, and a little boiling water to make it of a proper consistence* Bake it. 390. Po ato Pudding. Two pounds of potatoes boiled and mashed, one pound of flour, and a little salt, mixt well together into a stiff paste, tie it in a wet cloth dusted with flour; boil it two houis. A little butter mashed in the potatoes and a few raisins are an improvement. Serve it up with sweet sauce. 391. Puddings in Haste. Break some butter in small pieces into some grated bread, add a few currants, the yolks of four eggs and two whites, some grated lemon-peel and ginger, mix well together and make it up into small balls about the size and shape of an egg with a little flour; put them into a pan of boiliug100 PUDDINGS, kc. water, and when they rise to the top they are enough; about twenty minutes is the time required. Serve with sweet sauce. They may be made as New College puddings by adding sugar, nutmeg, and some candied orange, made up into balls the size and shape of a goose egg, and fried in but- ter over a slow fire a nice brown; but they are much nicer baked in cups or patty-pans. 392. Quaking Pudding. Mix a pint of cream or very good milk gradually to two spoonsful of flour, beat it quite smooth, add to it five well- beaten eggs, a little salt and sugar, strain it into a basiu well buttered, and boil it an hour and a half. 393. Quince Pudding. Scald six large quinces till very tender, pare off the rind and scrape them to a pulp, sweeten with powdered sugar; add a little powdered ginger, cinnamon, and a little salt; beat the yolks of four eggs, and stir a pint of cream to them, mix with the quince, and bake it with puff paste round the edge of the dish, three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven; when enough, sift powdered sugar over it, 394. Raspberry Dumpling. Make a good paste, roll it, spread over it raspberry-jam, roll it up, and boil it a full hour ; cut it into slices, lay it on a dish, and pour melted butter round it. 395. Common Rice Pudding. Wash and pick half a pound of rice very clean, put it in a dish with two quarts of milk, and sugar to the taste; bake it in a moderate oven. It may be made richer by adding butter, eggs, and powdered cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, but it is very good without. 396. Dutch Rice Pudding. Soak four ounces of rice in warm w ater half an hour, drain.101 PUDDING3, &C. and put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of milk, and half a stick of cinnamon; simmer till the rice is tender. When cold, add four eggs well beaten, two ounces of but- ter melted in a tea-cupful of cream, three ounces of sugar, quarter of a nutmeg grated, and some grated lemon-peel; put a light puff paste into a mould or dish, and bake it in a quick oven. 397. Rice Pudding with Apples. Boll six ounces of rice in a pint of milk, till it is soft, then fill a dish about half full of apples pared and cored, sweeten, put the rice over them as a crust, and bake it. A little lemon-peel or'nutmeg may be added. 398. Rice Pudding with Fruit. Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire, then mix fruit of any kind with it, currants, gooseberries scald- ed, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or blackcurrants; pui one egg into the rice, boii it well, and eat it with sugar. 399. Rice Pudding. Stew quarter of a pound of rice very gently in a pint and a h df ot new miik ; when the lice is tender pour it into a basin, stir in a piece of butter, and let it stand till quite cool, then put in four eggs, a little salt, some nutmeg and sugar. Boil it an hour in a basin well buttered. 400. Rice Pudding. Wash quarter of a pound of whole rice, and stew it gently in a pint of milk till it is pretty thick, then pour it into a basin and let it stand to cool, put to it a small tea-spoon- ful of beaten cinnamon, the rind of a lemon grated, four large apples pared and chopped small, two eggs, and sugar to the taste. Mix all well together, tie the pudding tight in a doth, and boil it an hour and a quarter. 401. Rice Pudding with Cream. Stew quarter of a pound of rice in wal‘T till it is tender, i 3102 PUDDINGS, kc. pour off the water, and set it over the fire with milk enough to make it moderately thick, till it is scalding hot; pour it into a basin, and stir in a piece of butter; when cold, add quarter of a pint of cream, the yolks of five eggs, and the whites of two, nutmeg and sugar to the taste, Boil it in a cloth three quarters of an hour. 402. Rice Pudding icith Raisins. Boil quarter of a pound of rice with half a pound of raisins, two hours; grate a little nutmeg and sugar over it; send it to the table with melted butter in a boat. 403. Plain Rice Pudding. To three quarters of a pound of rice, well cleaned, take two quarts of new milk and half a tea-spoonful of salt, bake it in a moderate oven; when enough, take the skin off the top and put the rice into a basin warmed and rub- bed over with a little butter, press it into the basin, then turn it out on a dish: serve it up with melted butter. Sugar, raspberry-vinegar, or preserved fruit may be eaten with it. Butter, sugar, powdered cinnamon, and a beaten egg may be added before it is put in the basin, if approved. It makes a pretty looking dish, to put the rice in small cups buttered, and turned out on a dish. 404. Boiled Ground Rice Pudding. Set a pint and half of new milk on the fire; mix six ounces of ground rice quite smooth with half a pint of cold milk; add this to the other milk when nearly boiling, and stir them over the fire till pretty thick, then pour it into a basin, leaving it uncovered till nearly cold, sweeten it to the taste, add a little salt, and six eggs well beaten. Boil it an hour and a half in a basin well buttered. 405. Ground Rice Pudding. Take a pint of milk and put into it six ounces of ground rice ; set another pint of milk over the fire with a little103 PUDDINGS, &C. cinnamon in it, when it nearly boils, pour in the rice gra- dually, and keep stirring it till it has boiled a few minutes, then pour it out and stir in it two ounces of butter; when nearly cold, beat four eggs and put in, some sugar, about a dozen bitter almonds blanched and beaten fine, and an ounce of sweet almonds; bake it in a dish, either with, or without paste. It is a very good pudding without butter and almonds. 406. Sago Pudding. Wash and pick very clean two ounces of sago, set it on the fire in about a pint of water; when it boils, pour the water from it, then put a pint of new milk and a pinch of salt to the sago, with some cinnamon, and boil it till thick ; when cool, stir in half a pint of cream, five eggs, leaving out two w hites ; add sugar to the taste, and bake it with paste round the dish. A few bread-crumbs or biscuit may- be added. 407. Sandy Lane Pudding. Cut fine stale bread in thin slices, boil a pint of milk and put to it, let it stand till cold, sweeten it with white sugar, and add two spoonsful of rose-water mixed with four eggs well beaten, beat all together till it is a fine batter; butter a wooden dish and put in the batter, dredge a little flour on the top, tie a cloth over, and boil it an hour. 408. Scalded Pudding. From a pint of new milk take out enough to mix three large spoonsful of flour into a smooth batter ; set the re- mainder of the milk on the fire, and when it is scalding keep it on the fire till it thickens but not till it boils, stir- ring it all the time. When of a proper thickness pour it into a basin, and let it stand to cool; then put in four well beaten eggs, a little sugar and nutmeg. Boil it an hour in a basin well buttered, 409. Sippet Pudding. Butter a dish, and put in a layer of bread and butter cut in104 PUDDINGS, &C. thin slices; strew over it soma currants, a little lemon- peel, and grated nutmeg, then a layer of bread and but- ter, and so on till the dish be full; beat three eirgs, put to them as much milk as will soak the bread, sweeten it and pour it into the dish, strew some currants on the top, and put a dish over it, or some thin crusts of bread, before it be put into the oven, to prevent the fruit at the top from being scorched. The crusts may be taken off when it is nearly enough. A few almonds blanched and cut in small pieces, candied lemon or orange, is a great improvement. Serve it up with melted butter. 410. Snoiv Balls. Pare and core as many large apples as there are to he balls, wash'some lice, about a large spoonful to an apple will be enough, boil it in a little water or milk with a pinch of suit and drain it, spread it on the dumpling-cloths, and put in the apples, boil them an hour. Put them into cold water Lefore they are turned out of the cloths. 411. Spinage Pudding. Pick and wash quarter of a peck of spinage, put it in a Saucepan with a little salt and covered close ; when boiled tender put it into a sieve to drain, then chop it and mix it with some grafed bread, half a pint of cream, a little nut- meg, salt, and two ounces of melted butter, add fonr well beaten eggs, set it on the fire till it thickens, then wet and flour a doth, tie it up and boii it an hour. Pour melted butter and sift fine sugar over it. 412. Another Spinage Pudding. A pint of grated bread, three ounces of butter cut in small pieces, half a pound of currants, sugar, nutmeg, and salt to the taste; mix all together with half a pint of spinage- juice, three spoonsful of cream and fhree eggs ; boii it an hour and a half in a basin well buttered. 413. Spoonful Pudding. A spoonful of Sour well beaten up with a spoonful of cream105 PUDDINGS, &C» or milk, one egg, a little salt, and a little powdered gin- ger ; boil it half an hour in a cup well buttered. 414. Suffolk Dumplings. Make a very light dough witn yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, add a little salt; let it rise an hour before the fire; have ready a large pan of boiling water, make the the dough into balls about as large as middling- sized apples, put them in and boil them twenty minutes; if you doubt their being enough, stick a clean fork into one, and if it come out clear it is done. When you eat them, tear them apart on the top with two forks, for they become heavy with their own steam. Eat them immediately, with melted butter and sugar, or common pudding-sauce. ' 415. Tansey Pudding. Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds with a little rose- water, add the crumb of a French roll, quarter of a pound of fresh butter melted, quarter of a pint of syrup of roses, and sugar to the taste, put all together into a stew-pan with a pint of boiling new milk or cream, let it boil up and pour it into a basin ; when cold, add six well-beaten eggs, two table-spoonsful of tansey, and two of spinage-juice. It may either be boiled or baked. 416. Tansey Pudding. Put as much boiling cream to four grated Naples biscuits as will wet them, beat them with the yolks of four eggs. Have ready a little juice of tansey, and as much spinage- juice as will make it a pretty green. Be careful not to put too much tansey in, as it will make it bitter. Mix all together when the cream is cold, with a little sugar, and set it over a slow fire till it becomes thick, then take it off, and, when cold, put it into a cloth well buttered and floured; tie it close, and let it boil three quarters of an hour; take it up in a bas;n, and let it stand ten minutes, then turn it carefully out, and serve it with melted butter.lod PUDDINGS, kc. 417. Another Tanscy Pudding. Scald some grated bread with boiling milk, cover it close, when nearly cold add spinage and tansey-juice, sugar and nutmeg, beat four eggs very well, mix all together; if too thin, stir in a little flour. It may either be boiled or baked. 418; Tapioca Pudding. Wash and pick quarter of a pound of tapioca very clean, then put it in a saucepan on the fire with cold water, when it has boiled two or three minutes, strain it; then return it into the pan with a pint of new milk; let it boil gently till the milk be nearly soaked up, then pour it out to cool, and stir in two ounces of butter; add sugar and nutmeg to the taste, the yolks of five and whites of two eggs well beaten, and a table-spoonful of rose or orange-flower water ; but- ter a dish, and put puff paste round the edge and bake it. It is very good boiled. A mixture of tapioca and rice make an excellent pudding made in the common way, without eggs, or mixed with ground rice. 419. Treacle Pudding. Take of currants, raisins stoned, and butter, half a pound of each, one pound of flour, two large spoonsful of treacle, a little sugar and lemon-peel, mix it with about half a pint ot water; candied orange, and a little nutmeg or maee may be added; boil it five hours. 420. Treacle Dumpling. Make a paste as for a preserved pudding, roll it out ra- ther thin, then spread it over with very stiff treacle, and roll it up ; wrap it in a cloth and tie it at each end; boil it according to the size in plenty of water; serve it up with melted butter, but do not cut it in slices tiil on the table. 421. A Welsh Pudding. Melt half a pound of butter in a basin, s'ct in a pan of hot water, mix with it gradually the yolks of eight and whites107 FRtTTEHS, Si.C. of four eggs well beaten; add fine sugar, grated lemon- pt»e!, and mace to the taste; bake it in a shallow dish with a border of puff paste, and *liek slices of candied citron or Orange round {lie edges. 422. IVincisor Pudding. Mr\i half a pound of butter, add to it half a pound of the cuuiih Oi French roll or light tea-cake, the grated rind of U lemon, half a pound of chopped apples, half a pound of currants, half a pound of jar-raisins stoned and chopped five eggs well beaten, and a little salt; mix all well toge- ther, and boil it in a basin or mould three hours. 423. Cream Sauce for Puddings. Boil gently some thin cream, with sugar, cinnamon and lemon-peel, when it tastes well of the seasoning take it out ami thicken it with a little butter and rice or potato flour ' let it just boil up, then pour it from qne vessel to another till quite smooth; set it in a pan of hot water covered close till wanted ; and immediately before it is served up add a glass of sherbet or raspberry vinegar. This sauce is very suitable for custard, rice, or bread pudding also for fresh fruit puddings, leaving out the vinegar or sherbet, 4^4. Apple Fritters. To four large spoonsful of flour, take half a pint of warm cream, two yolks of eggs, anil a dessert-spoonful of barm, set it to rise one hour ; pare and slice some good baking apples, melt several ounces of butter in a frying-pan on a slow fire, put in the slices of apple separately, after strewing on them sugar and nutmetr, then covering them with the batter; when done, drain the butter from them, and sift sugar over. 425. Apple Fl itters. To quarter Of a pound of flour, add four or five spoonsful of cream cr new milk, a little salt, and three eggs wellFRITTFRS, &C, 108 beaten, beat the whole into a smooth batter, pare and slice some apples, taking out the core, dip them in the batter and fry them: serve them up with powdered sugar sifW over 1 hem. Apricots, peaches, pears, peeled and sliced, may be used instead of apples; preserved fruits also of a solid kind, may be cut into proper-sized slices and used in the same way. The batter may be made with a pint of ginger-beer instead of milk, and as much flour as will make rather a thick batter, two ounces of butter melted and put in, three eggs, and a little salt. 426. Apple Fritters. Mix batter as for a pudding, only rather thicker, chop some apples small and put them in, fry them in oil or but- ter; a large table-spoonful will make them of a proper size. Another way of making them is to cut the apples (when pared) in slices, and dip them in a thick batter and fry them. The apples should be of a good baking kind, or they will eat hard. Sugar and butter may be eaten with them. Currant fritters may be made in the sum? planner. 427. Plain Breast Fritters. Pour a pint of boiling milk on half a pound of bread- crumbs; when cold, beat it smooth, adding the yolks of live eggs, two ounces of sugar, and a grated nutmeg, fry it in fritters, or as a pancake. 428. Apple Pancakes. fare and cut some apples in thick slices, fry them in but- ter a light brown, keep them as whole as possible, when tender, take them out, melt some butter in the pan, and put in some batter as for a pancake, then put in a layer of apples, then a little more batter, fry them a nice brown, and strew sugar on each pancake. 429. Apple arid Custard Pancake. Pare and slice some apples thin, fry them in good butter, beat four eggs with six spoonsful of cream, some rcse-109 FRITTERS, &C. water, sugar, and nutmeg, stir them together, and pour it over the apples, fry it a nice brown, then turn it carefully. Serve it up with fine sugar sifted over it. 430. American Pancakes. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonsful of fine flour, five eggs, and a very little salt; fry the pancakes very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Serve up six or eight at once. 431. Gooseberry Pancakes. Melt some good butter in a frying pan, put in a quart of gooseberries, fr y them till tender and mash them, beat six yolks of eggs and three whites, sugar to the taste, four spoonsful of cream, four large spoonsful of bread-crumbs, and three spoonsful of flour, mix all together, then put to them the gooseberries, and set them in a saucepan on the fire to thicken, then fry them in fresh butter and sift sugar on them. 432. Rice Pancakes. Stew half a pound of rice till very tender in as much water as will keep it doing properly, let it stand uncovered till cold, then mash it very fine and put to it balfapintof scalded cream, two ounces of butter melted, quarter of a pound of flour, a little salt and nutmeg or cinnamon, five I eggs well beaten; fry them in pancakes or fritters,and silt j sugar over them. It makes a nice pudding, either baked i three quarters of an hour, or boiled one hour. 433. Ground Rice Pancakes. I Set a pint of new milk on the fire, and when it is near boil ♦ ing stir into it three ounces of ground rice mixed up with quarter of a pint of cold milk ; keep it on the fire till it thickens, but do not let it boil, put it into a basin to cool, stirring in quarter of a pound of butter: when cold, add some sugar, salt, powdered cinnamon, and four eggs well beaten ; fry them a nice light brown, and sift sugar over the m.110 FRITTr.RS, &C. 434. Wafer Pancakes. Beat four eggs well, with two large spoonsful of flour, and two of cream, one ounce of powdered loaf-sugar, and a little grated nutmeg or mace; put a little butter in a bit of clean cloth, rub the pan well with it, pour in the batter as thin as a wafer ; fry them only on one side, lay them on a dish with grated sugar between each pancake. Serve them up hot, with sugar and a lemon. 435. Carrot Fritters. Beat two or three boiled carrots with a wooden spoon till they are quite smooth, put to each carrot two eggs, a little nutmeg and salt; to three carrots put a handful of flour, moisten them with a little cream or milk, add sugar to the taste, beat them well half an hour, and fry them in butter or fine olive-oil; squeeze over them the juice of a lemon, and sift fine sugar. 436. Currant Fritters. Put four yolks and two whites of eggs to a pint of milk, mix with it half a pint of bread-crumbs grated fine, a little nutmeg, six ounces of currants, quarter of a pound of butter melted, a little salt, and flour sufficient to make it of a moderate thickness; fry them the size of fritters. 437. flasty Fritters. Take half a pint of ginger-beer, and stir into it by de- grees as much flour as will make it a stiff batter, put in a few currants or chopped apples, beat them up quickly, and fry them in butler, drop a large spoonful for each into the pan, taking care that they do not stick together, turn them, and when they are of a fine brown, lay them pn a dish and strew sugar over them- 438. Rite Fritters. Boil quarter of a pound of rice in milk till it he rather thick, then mix it with a pint of good milk, four eggs, seine sugar, ciinamon, nutmeg, six ounces of currants, aFPITTERS, &C. Ill little salt, and as much flour as will make it into a thick hatter. Take a separate spoonful foreach fritter, fry them in butter a light brown. Serve them up with white sugar and butter. 439. Rice Fritters, Boil the rice in milk, put in a little cinnamon, and the peel of a lemon, sweeten it with sifted sugar; when the rice is done, take out the lemon-peel and cinnamon, and stir a piece of butter in, add four eggs and a little nutmeg, but* ter a pewter dish and spread the rice on it; when cold, cut it out with a cutter of what shape you think proper, then dip the rice in beaten egg. and fry the fritters in butter a nice brown. Serve them up with fine sugar. 440. Potato Fritters, Slice potatoes thin, uip them in smooth batter, and fry them. Serve them up with white sugar grated over them. Lemon-peel and a spoonful of orange-flower water may be added to the batter. 441» Potato Fritters. To half a pound of potato, mashed fine after it is boiled, add a large spoonful of cream, four eggs well beaten, a little salt, half a spoonful of lemon-juice, a wine-glass of sherbet, and a little nutmeg grated, beat these to a light batter, and fry them in butter the usual size of fritters. Serve them up with sugar sifted over them. 442. Tansey Fritters. Pour a pint of boiling milk on a pint of bread-crumbs, let it stand an hour, then add tansey-juice to the taste, and some spinage-juice, the grated rind of half a lemon, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, mix all well together and put them into a stew-pan with three ounces of butter, stir it over a slow fire till quite thick, then pour it out and let it stand two hours ; fry in butter the same as other fritters and sift sugar on them.112 FRI ITERS, &C. 443. Paste Fritters. Roll some puff paste very thin, put into it marmalade or any other sweetmeat, roll them up in what form you please and in different shapes, fry them in butter, sift a little powdered sugar over. 444. Egg Fritters. Take some well-drained poached eggs, brush them over with well-beaten yolk of egg, strew over them some good cheese grated, then bread-crumbs, fry them a moment in very hot clarified butter. Serve with fried or crisped parsley. 445. Spanish Puff's. Boil a stick of cinnamon, a piece of lemon-peel, and a little sugar, in three quarters of a pint of water for ten minutes; let it cool, then add to it three eggs well beaten and three large spoonsful of flour, beat them well toge- ther, then add three more yolks of eggs, and boil the whole over the fire till it thickens almost to a paste; melt some butter in a frying-pan, drop them in with a tea- spoon, and fry them a delicate nice brown. Sugar may be added, if preferred. 440. Sweet Toasts. Cut the crust off two small loaves, then cut them in slices and dip them in cream, or cold milk, lay them separately on a dish, beat three eggs with some grated nutmeg and sugar, adding quarter of a pint of cream, then melt some butter in a frying-pan, wet the toasts over with the egg and cream, and lay them in the pan the wet side downward, pour on the remainder of the egg, and fry it a nice light brown. Serve with rose-water, sugar and butter boiled up. 447. Spinage Toasts. Put some boiled spinage in a mortar with some sugar and butter, pound it fine, put in a spoonful of cream and aFRITTERS, &C. 113 little nutmeg, three beaten eggs, a handful of currants, and some grated lemon-peel; cut some toasts, heap your spiuage on it, wash it over with egg, and strew crumbs of bread over; bake it and serve it up. 448. Rice Eggs. Wash very clean in warm water three ounces of rice, boil it in a pint of new milk till soft, pour it into small saucers about the size of an egg when poached, or a little larger; the next day, turn them out of the saucers and lay hall of a preserved apricot on each. They are equally good with any other kind of preserved fruit. Blanc-inange put in saucers in the same way, has still more the appearance of eggs. 449. Vermicelli Pudding. Take four ounces of vermicelli, boil it in a pint of new milk, with a stick of cinnamon, till it is soft, then put in half a pint of cream, a little butter, the yolks of four eggs, sweeten it, and bake it in a dish without paste. 450. Dish of Rice and Apples. Blanch some of the best rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon-peel and a bit of cinnamon; let it boil till the rice is dry, then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish, having rubbed the dish over with egg to make it stick; then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half way up with marmalade of apples; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade, then sift the sugar over and set it in the oven, which should be hot enough to give it a beautiful color. 451. Buttered Riee. Wash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, just enough to swell it, over the fire; when tender, pour oft* the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon, dry it and shake it, that it do not burn, and serve. ' K2PIES, TARTS, &C. 114 452. A Supper Dish. Wash three ounces of rice, and boil it in milk till tender; strain off the milk, lay the rice in small heaps on a dish, strew over them some finely powdered sugar and cinna- mon, and put warm sherbet and a little butter into the dish. The rice put into small tea-cups and turned out, looks neater. 453. Sweet Omelet. To a gill of cream or good milk put four well-beaten eggs* sugar, nutmeg, or cinnamon, and a small pinch of salt, fry it a nice light brown on a slow fire, sift fine sugar over. 454. Rice Omelet with Cream. Mix two large spoonsful of rice flour with three eggs, a little salt, quarter of a pound of fine sugar, two ounces of good butter, and a pint of cream ; boil all together till it becomes thick, when nearly cold, add a little grated lemon- peel, six eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and a few almonds blanched and beaten; have a dish with white paper buttered on botn sides, pour in the omelet and bake it; when done, turn it out carefully on a dish, and silt fine sugar over it. PIES, TARTS, &c. 455. Apple Pie. Pare, core, and slice some good baking apples; cover the edge of the dish and about an inch down the sides with a shred of puff paste, put in the apples with moist sugar sufti. cient to sweeten it, cover the pie with puff paste, make a small hole in the middle, and put in a slip of writing paper rolled up, but not close, to keep it open. Stew the paringsPIES, TAR 13, &C. 115 and cores in a little water, strain it, and when the pie is baked, pour it into the pie through a small funnel. If the apples are good, seasoning is unnecessary;—if they are insipid, a little grated lemon-peel and juice, quince marmalade, or a little grated nutmeg, is an agreeable ad- dition. Bake in a moderately hot oven. The dish should be quite tilled with apples, as they shrink very much in baking. 456. Pear Pie. Pare and slice the fruit, boil the parings a little with some apple parings and a bit of lemon-peel, in w ater, then strain ihe liquor, and put it in a broad pan with the sliced pears, stew them about quarter of an hour, adding sugar to the taste; pour them into a dish, and, when cool, proceed in the same way as for an apple pie, leaving out a part of the syrup to put in after the pie is baked. Pears that are not good for eating raw, being rather hard, are generally the best baking pears, and make ex- cellent pies when prepared as above. They are also very good mixed with apples. If of the softer kind, they do not, of course, require stew ing. 457. Gooseberry, and other Fruit Pies. Gooseberries, cherries, and currants, should be fresh gathered, picked, and washed; lay any of these fruits in a deep dish heaped to the centre, cover the edge of the dish with a shred of paste, allow about quarter of a pound of sugar to a quart of fruit, cover it with paste, and bake it in a moderately hot oven. Plums, damsons, a mixture of currants and raspberries, or any other kind of fruit, may be used for pies in the same way. Black currants, though not in general use for fruit pies, make a very good pie, of which many persons are ex- tremely fond, but if not quite ripe, they should be stewed in a little water, with the requisite portion of sugar, about quarter of an hour, and remain till cold before made' into a pie.116 PIES, TARTS, &C. 468. Mince Pies. Take six good-sized lemons, squeeze out the juice, and scrape out all the pulp and skins, then boil the rinds till they are quite tender, changing the water five or six times to take out the bitterness; chop them in a bowl with half a pound of apples and a pound of raisins stoned, add a pound of currants, a pound of sugar, the juice of the lemons, and three quarters of a pound of butter melted and stirred up well amongst them ; put it close down in a pot and tie a paper or bladder over it, and it will keep six or seven weeks in a cool, dry place. A little mace, and candied orange or lemon may be added, if approved. 459. Egg Mince Pies. Boil six eggs hard, chop them small, melt six ounces of butter and put in, a pound of currants well cleaned and dried, half a pound of raisins chopped, the grated rind of a lemon and juice, mace, nutmeg, sugar, and a very little salt, candied orange and lemon. 460. Rhubarb Tarts, Take the stalk of rhubarb, peel and cut it to the size of a gooseberry, and make it the same way as a gooseberry tart. Gooseberries mixed with rhubarb make a very "ood tart. 461. Prune Tart. Give the prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them; put the stones into a little cranberry-juice, simmer with the prunes and sugar, and when cold make it into a tart. 462. Macaroni Tart. Boil tender in salt and water a little macaroni, strain it oil', put a little butter and your macaroni into a stew-pan, stew it a little, *put in some sugar, beaten cinnamon, and half a pint of cream, boil it pretty thick, then cool it;117 HES, 1 ARTS &c. cover the bottom of a tart-pan with puff paste, put in your macaroni with a custard over it, bake it a good color, and serve it up. 463. Spinage Tart. Scald, then drain and dry some spinage, chop, and stew it in butter and cream with very little salt, sugar, and bits of citron; add a little orange-flower water, and bake it in puff paste. 464. Cranberry Tart. Having picked and washed the cranberries, put them in a dish, with quarter of a pound of sugar to a quart of fruit, and a little water, line the edges of the dish with paste, and cover it; bake it as other fruit pies. American, Russian, and Swedish cranberries make very excellent tarts. It is not unusual to stew them a little with sugar and a few spoonsful of water, and let them cool previous to being used for tarts. Crow-berry (clusterberry), or bilberry tarts may be made in (he same way. 465. Fruit Pasty, or Turnover. Make a hot crust as for raised pies, allowing a little more 'butter, roll it out quickly and cut it in different forms ; lay apples stewed as for sauce, rhubarb, or scalded goose- berries, in the crust, with moist sugar, add to apples a little lemon-peel or cinnamon, double up the paste, and pinch the edges; bake it in a moderate heated oven. Pasties may be made in the same way, with any kind of solid preserves or jam. 466. Raspberry Tart with Cream. Lay some puff paste in a large patty-pan or shallow pie- dish, put in raspberries, sweeten with good sugar, cover it with a thin lid, and bake it; when enough, cut it open, and have ready the following mixture warm : half a pint jf cream, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and a littlePits, TARTS, &C. 118 sugar, add tins to the tart, and return it into the overt for five or six minutes. 467. Orange Tart. Line a tart pan with puff paste, put into it orange marma- lade chat is made with apple-jelly, lay small shreds of paste on crosswise. 468. Tarts made after the French manner. Having made a crust as directed for this purpose* roll it out, and cut it round by a plate, according to the size required for the tart. Lay the paste on a sheet of tin, then spread the sweetmeat upon it, which must be a jam or marmalade, not a sweetmeat made with syrup, but do not spread it too thick, leaving a border round the edge an inch, or an inch and a half wide, according to the size of the tart. Wet the border with a feather dipt in water, and then lay over it another border of the crust rolled toler- ably thick, so as to rise just above the sweetmeat. Orna- ment this border according to the fancy, and lay over the sweetmeat little ornaments of paste cut with the jagging iroh, or otherwise according to the taste; about an hour will bake it. Sift a little fine sugar over it before it is sent to table* If preferred, the border may be made of the light puff crust; it renders the tart rather more delicate. 469. A Crust for making the French Tarts. To a pound and half of flour allow three quarters of a pound of butter, and half an ounce of salt; put the flour in a bowl, make a hole in the middle, and put in the salt and butter cut in small pieces; pour in the water with great care, as there should only be water enough just to make it hold together and roll it smooth, work the butter and water up well together with the hands, and then by degrees mix in the flour; when the flour is all mixed in, mould the paste till it is smooth and free from lumps; let it lie two hours before it be used. It is also a very nice crust for putting round a dish for baked fruit pudding.no PIES, TARTS, &C. 470. Light Puff Crust. Mjs a pound and a half of flour with just water enough to make it into a paste, and a little salt, mould it lightly toge~ ther, and let it lie two hours ; then roll out the paste and put a pound of butter into the middle pfit, fold the ends of the paste over and roll it out, then fold it over again and roll it, repeat this six times in winter, and five in summer ; it should not be more than half an inch thick each time it is rolled, and a little flour dusted lightly over and undep it to prevent it slicking: this is a very light anil delicate crust. 471. Rice Paste for Sweets. B» il quarter of a pound of ground rice in the smallest quantity of water, strain from it all the moisture as well as you can, beat it in a mortar with half an ounce of butter, and one egg vyell beaten, and it will make excellent paste for tarts. 472. Rich Puff Paste. To one pound of flour take three quarters of a pound of butter, break a little butter into the flour, and mix it with as little water as will make it in a stiff paste, roll it out, and lay the butter on ip thin slices, clredge i{ well with flour, double it up, and rqll it out thin twice, handle it as little as possible. It is better to roll the but- ter in at twice. Bake it in a qpick oven, or it will not be light? A paste less rich may be made with two pounds of flour and half a popnd of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, two well-beaten eggs and a little salt; fold it up and roll it four times. 473. Another Way. Beat, the white of an egg to a froth, add as much water as w ill make tweh e ounces of flour into a stiff paste, roll it very thin, and lay five ounces of butter on in small slices, dredge it, fold it up, and roll it out three times.PlEP, TARTS, &C. 120 474. Puff Paste. Rub extremely fine six ounces of butter into one pound of flour well dried, and a spoonf ul of sifted loaf sugar, work up tbe whole into a a stiff paste, with as little hot water as possible. 476. Paste for Custards. To half a pound of flour put quarter of a pound of but- ter, the yolks of two eggs, and three spoonsful of cream, mix them up together, and let it stand quarter of an hour, then work it up and down, and roll it out very thin. 476. Excellent Short Crust. Take two ounces of white sugar pounded and sifted, and well dried, mix it with a pound of very dry flour, rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be seen ; beat the yolks of two eggs, and add as much cream as will make it into a smooth paste, roll it thin, and bake it in a more moderate oven than for puff paste. 477. Another. Mix an ounce of sugar, pounded and sifted, with a pound of flour well dried, rub three ounces of butter in it till it looks all like flour, and with a gill of boiling cream work it up to a fine paste. 478. Tart Paste, called Short Paste. To one pound of flour, rub in quarter of a pound of but- ter, make a hole in the middle, put in a little water, two yolks and one white of egg, work it tip to a proper con- sistence, and roll it out for use. W hen for tarts or sweets only, put two ounces of powdered loaf sugar in the paste. 479. Tart Paste for Family Pics. Rub half a pound of butler into a pound and quarter of flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt, mix it with half a pint of water, and roll it out well several times.PIES, TARTS, &C. m 480. Sweet and Crisp Tart Paste. To one pound and quarter of flour take ten ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of tvro beaten eggs, and three ounces of jilted loaf sugar, mix up well together, with half a pint of new milk, and knead it well. 481. Tartlets. Roll out puff paste quarter of an inch thick, cut it into pieces, line small patty-pans, little larger than a crown- piece, pare them round the edges, and put in a small quan- tity of apricot, raspberry, strawberry, apple, marmalade, or any kind of jam; string them crosswise with paste (No. 482) and bake them from six to ten minutes in a quick oven. They should be very lightly browned. 482. Paste fur stringing Tartlets, tyc. Mix an ounce of fresh butter with your hands in quarter of a pound of flour, and a little cold water, rub it well between the board and your hand till it begins to string; .cut it into small pieces, roll it out and draw it into fine strings, lay them across your tarts in any form you please, and bake them immediately. 483. Puff Paste. Rub two ounces of butter into a pound of flour, mix it up with a little cold water, then roll in at three times ten ounces of butter, spread on the paste in small bits, and dredged wjell with tjlour, and a littje fine salad oil sprinkled all over, fold it up and roll it, keeping the paste-roller from the edges of the paste as much as possible. A very little volatile salts dissolved in milk, mixed up with the paste, will make ii much lighter, and will have a good effect in puffs of all kinds. Rake in a quick oven. 484. Common Pie Paste. To one pound of flour take quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-spoonful of yeast put into quarter of a pint of cold water, rub half ol the butter in the flour, and the otfier h122 PIES, TARTS, &C. half spread on the paste, three thin layers of paste and three layers of butter, with (lour dredged on each ; when you have rolled the paste, cut it in pieces and lay one piece upon another, and roll it out three times. 485. A Plain Crust for Common Pies or Fruit Puddings. Pare the crust off a French roll, or two moderate-sized light tea-cakes, pour on it a pint of boiling new milk, 1< t il stand all night covered close ; when wanted for use, rub a little butter in as much flour as will make it of a proper consistence, mix all together, adding a little salt, and roll it out for use. White bread, or tea-cake dough mixed w ith milk, with a little butter rolled in it, makes a very useful and whole- some good crust for common fruit pies. 486. Hot Paste for Raised Pics. To one pint of water put two ounces of butter in a sauce- pan, take two pounds and a half of flour, break two eggs into it; when the water and butter boils, stir it by degrees into the flour wilo a wooden slice till well mixed, then work it well with ti.e hands till quite smooth and stiff, then put it into an earthen pan or bowl covered close, and set before the fire ten or fifteen minutes; if it appears too soft dredge a little flour in it, and work it smooth; raise your pies immediately. 487. Paste for Raised Fruit Pies, or Custards. Put half a pound of butter into a saucepan with a pint of water, take two pounds and three quarters of flour, make, a hole in the middle, and when the water and butter boils, pour it into the flour by degrees, stirring it with a slice till it is well mixed, then knead it with your hands till it becomes stiff; cover it close with an earthen pan or bowl till cold; it is then ready for use. 488. Icing for Fruit Tarts, Puffs, Sfc. Jkat up the whites of two eggs to a solid froth; lay some123 CHEESECAKES, CUSTARDS, &C. in the middle of the pie with a paste brush, sift over it plenty of powdered sugar and press it down with the hand, wash out the brush, and sprinkle by degrees with water till the sugar is dissolved, put it in the oven for ten minutes, and serve it up cold. CHEESECAKES, CUSTARDS, &c. 480. Cheesecakes. Set a pint of cream on the fire, when near boiliua put in six yolks of eggs and half the whites, well beaten; when it becomes a fine curd strain it through a lawn sieve, and while the curd is hot slice in quarter of a pound of butter. Let it stand till cool, then add two ounces of almonds blanched and beaten with orange-flower water, a little beaten mace, and sugar to the taste; bake them in puff paste. Add currants, if approved. 490. A hiiond Cheesecakes. Blanch six ounces of sweet and half an ounce of bitter almonds, beat them well with a little orange-flower water, two Naples biscuits grated, six ounces of butter melted, six yolks of eggs and three whites, the juice of a lemon or Seville orange, and the rind grated, sugar to the taste ; bake them in puff paste. 491. Almond Cheesecakes. Take six ounces of almonds, beat them with a little rose- water in a marble mortar, six ounces of butter beaten to a cream, half a pound of fine sugar, six eggs well beaten, a little mace ; bake them in small tins in puff paste.CHEESECAKES, CUSTARDS, &C. 124 492. Apple Cheesecakes. Grate half a pound of apples, add quarter of a pound of butter melted, and quarter of a pound of sugar, the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, the juice and gratedf rind of a lemon ; bake them in puff paste. 493. Bread Cheesecakes. Pour a pint of boiling cream on a sliced roll and let it stand two hours, add five or six r ell-beaten eggs, quarter of a pound of blitter melted, some pounded mace, beat them well together, add half a pound of clean dry currants, and a table-spoonful of sherbet, or orange-flower water; bake them in pufl'paste. 494. Curd Cheesecakes. Put a little rennet into about three or four pints of new milk, drain the whey well from the curd, then put it through a sieve with a little butter, when quite smooth, add the yolks of thfee eggs, a little cream, rose-water, and sugar, a few almonds, and a little nutmeg or mace ; just before it is baked, put in the whites of the three eggs beaten to a froth, and some currants. 495. Lemon Cheesecakes. Quarter of a pound of melted butter, four eggs, two ounces of Naples biscuits grated, the juice of a lemon and the rind grated, with sugar to the taste ; bake 1 hern in puff crust, and be careful not to over-fill them. Add more' lemon-juice if wanted. 496. Lemon Cheesecakes. Boil the rinds of two lemons till quite tender, changing the water frequently, pound them in a marble mortar, add six yolks of eggs and four whites, half a pound of sugar, a pint of cream, the juice of two lemons, and two Naples biscuits grated, mix well together and set it ever a slow fire to thicken, stirring it all the time ; when it begins to thicken take it off, stirring it till cold; bake them in125 CHEESECAKES, CUSTARDS, &C. patty-pans lined with puff paste; sift fine sugar over before they are set in the oven. 497. Lemon Cheesecakes. Blanch, and beat very fine, three ounces of sweet almonds, and half an ounce of bitter ones, add the yolks of four eggs, six ounces of sugar, and six ounces of butter melted, put in the rind of one lemon and a half grated; grate a little fine loaf sugar over before you set them in the oven. 493. Another Way. Take two large lemon-peels, boil, and pound them in a mortar with about six ounces of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, mix all well together, and fill the pans about half full. Orange cheesecakes may be done in the same way, but be careful to change the wt ter frequently, to take out the bitterness. 499. Plain Cheesecakes. Three quarters of a pound of cheese curd, and quarter of a pound of butter, beat together in a mortar. Add quar- ter of a pound of bread soaked in cream or milk, three eggs, six ounces of currants, sugar to the taste, and a little candied orange-peel. Bake them in puffcrustin a quick oven. 500. Potato Cheesecakes. After taking out the inside of two middling-sized lemons, boil them till tender, and beat them in a marble mortar with four ounces of sugar, then add six ounces of boiled mealy potatoes mashed quite fine and smooth, add four ounces of butter molted in a little cream, and the juice of tlie lemons ; when well mixed let it stand till cold. Put paste in pattv-pans and rather more than half fill them. Bake them in a quick oven, but before you set them in sift fine sugar on them. L 2126 cheesecakes, custards, &c. 501. Rioe Cheesecakes. Boil four ounces of ground rice in a pint of good milk ; •when nearly cold, add four eggs well beaten, six ounces of butter melted, a little cinnamon beat fine, a little rose or orange-flower water, sweeten it, and bake it in small tins lined with paste. 502. A Dish of Rice in Puff Crust. Boil some rice in clean water very tender, skim it, and when done enough pour it into a bowl, ^dd to it some but- ter, sugar, nutmeg, salt, rose-water, and the yolks of six or eight eggs ; put it into a dish lined with puff crust, lay a crust over it, and bake it. When done sift sugar over it. For a change, boiled currants and beaten cinnamon; maybe added, and the nutmeg omitted. 503. Cheese-curd Puff's. Take half a pint of chese-curd well drained from the whey, beat it quite fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and half of flour, three yolks of eggs and one white, a spoon- ful of orange-flower water, grated nutmeg, or powdered mace, and fine sugar to the taste ; lay this mixture in very small round cakes on a tin plate ; bake in rather a brisk oven. Serve with sweet sauce. 504. Excellent Light Puff's. Mix a little grated lemon-peel, mace, half a spoonful of rose-water, a little loaf sugar, and one egg; then fry it, but not brown, beat it in a mortar with four eggs; put some fine olive oil or clarified butter in the frying-pan, when qnite hot put in a dessert-spoonful of batter for each puff; fry them a light brown, and serve immediately. 505. Ahnond Custards. A pint of cream, quarter of a pound of almonds, blanched and beat fine with orange flower water, the yolks of fonr eggs, and sugar to the taste. Stir it over the fire till it thickens, and then pour it into cups.CHEESECAKES, CT^STAflDS, &C. 127 50G. Almond Custards. Take three; gills of cream, boil it well with a little cinna- mon, take it off to cool, blanch and beat one ounce and a half of almonds, five yolks of eggs, two whites, and some loaf sugar, set it on the fire, keep stirring it till tolerably thick, then take it off and let it stand to go cold, giving it a stir now and then ; when cold put it in cups. A few bitter almonds may be added if approved, 507. Baked Custards. Boil a pint of milk or cream with a piece of cinnamon or a laurel-leaf, let it stand till nearly cold; if cream add four yolks of eggs ; if milk, six; with sugar to the taste; pour them into cups and bake them. 508. Baked Custard. Boil a pint of cream with a little cinnamon, When cold add four eggs beaten and strained, a few bitter almonds beaten fine, nutmeg, and sugar; bake it in cups. 509. Biest Custards. Set a pint of biest over the fire, with a little cinnamon and three laurel-leaves, keep stirring it till it be scalding hot, then take it off; have ready mixed a spoonful of flour, and the same of thick cream ; pour the hot biest upon it by degrees, mix it well together, and sweeten it to your taste. 510. Biest Custard. Set some new milk on the fire, with a stick of cinnamon, and as much biest as will make it the consistence of almond custard, stirring it constantly, when it thickens take it off; add sugar and spice to the taste. 511. Boiled Custards. If made with cream, four yolks of eggs should be allowed to a pint; but where good cream cannot be had, they may be made w ith milk, allowing six yolks of eggs to a pint, and adding a tea-spoonful of Indian arrow-root, or fine128 CITfESECAKFS, CCSTAKD8, &C. rice flour. Sweeten them with fine sugar, and add a few bitter almonds pounded fine, or boil a laurel-leaf in them, which will have the same effect; a little orange-flower or rose-water may be put in, according to the flavor prefer- red. Be very careful to stir them all the time they are on the fire, to prevent their curdling. Preserved oranges cut in halves, and the inside taken out and filled with this custard makes a very nice dish. The French often flavor their custards with a veiy small quantity of coffee or cho- colate, or with vanilla, either of which are very pleasant, but the latter particularly. 512. Common Custard. Boil a little cinnamon in a pint of new milk; when taken off the lire, put to it some biest, and sugar to the taste; more milk may be added, but as biest varies in quality, it is better to try a little of the mixture in the oven before you bake it in the crusts. A few bitter almonds, blanched and chopped fine, boiled in the milk, is a pleasant addition. Bake either in raised crusts, or in dishes lined with custard paste. Egg custard may be made in the same way, allowing five or six eggs (according to the size) to a quart of milk. 513. Gooseberry Custard, Scald green gooseberries in water, drain them from the water, and pulp them through a sieve ; to a pint of pulp put four eggs, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and sugar to the taste. Set it over the fire till it thickens, when cold put it into custard cups. 514. Solid Custard. Boil one ounce of isinglass in a quart of new milk till dis- solved, beat well the yolks of five eggs and mix with the milk, then strain and set it on the fire till it thickens to the consistency of a boiled custard; sweeten to the taste, and pour it into a mould. A little cinnamon, or a few bitter almonds, boiled in the milk, is an improvement.129 CREAMS, FLUMMERY, See. 51'5. Almond Cream* Beat two ounces of sweet almonds and a few bitter ones irl a mortar, with a tea-spoonftil of water to prevent oiling* y put tue paste to a pint of cream, and add the juice of two lemons sweetened, beat it up with a whisk to a froth, lay the froth on the bottom of a sieve as it rises, then pour the cream into glasses and the froth on the top. 516. Almond Cream. Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds, with about half an ounce of bitter ones, adding a little fose-water to prevent them from oiling ; boil a quart of cream, and let it stand while you beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, mix them with the almonds, then stir them in the cream till well mixed, adding sugar to the taste, set it on the fire to sim- mer, stirring it one way till it thickens, then pour it into a glass or china dish. When the cream is quite cold, stick some almonds in, blanched and cut lengthwise. 617. Barley Cream. Take quarter of a pound of French barley, boil it in three or four waters till tender; then set a pint of cream on the fire with some mace and nutmeg ; when it begins to boil, drain out the barley from the water, put in the cream, and let it boil till it be rather thick and soft, then season it with sugar and salt. When it is cold serve if up. Two eggs and a little rose-water may be added. 518. Clouted Cream. Take a gill of new milk and set it on the fire, with si*1 30 CREAMS, FLUMMERY, [kc, spoonsful of rose-water, and four or five pieces of mace, put the mace on at bread ; when it boils, put to it the yolks of two eggs well beaten, stir them very well together, then take a quart of good cream, put it to the rest, and stir it together, but do not let it boil after the cream is in. Pour it otit of the pan and let it stand all night ; the next day take the top off it, and serve it up. 519. Codlin Cream. Pare and core some good codlins, beat them in a mortar with a pint of cream; strain it into a dish, and put sugar, bread-cruinbs, and a glass of sherbet to it. Stir it well. 520. Devonshire Cream. Put warm milk into a bowl, turn it with a little rennet, then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon on the top, without breaking the curd. 521. Dutch Cream. Take one pint of new milk, one pint of cream, the yolks of three eggs, two drachms of vanilla, and five ounces of loaf sugar, separate the vanilla and cut it small; dilute well the yolks of the eggs in the milk, mix all together, and putting it on a gentle fire, stir well with a slice, and when it sticks to it the cream is complete; when cold, serve it up. 522. Gooseberry Cream. Put any quantity of gooseberries when young into a sauce- pan with cold water, set them on a moderate fire till they begin to soften, then drain the water from them through a colander, and pulp them through a coarse sieve with a wooden spoon, sweeten the pulp, and let it stand till nearly cold, then add milk and cream, or yolks of eggs beaten and put to the milk, (about two to a pint) instead of cream, stirred on a slow fire till it begins to simmer ; then pour to it the gooseberries by degrees: let it be cold before it is used.131 creams, flummery, &C. 523. Gooseberry Cream. Put green gooseberries into an earthen pot, and set it in a pan of water; let them simmer till they are quite soft, then pulp theip through a sieve, add sugar to the taste; when nearly cold, mix with the pulp about an equal quantity of cream and milk. Apple cream may be made in the same way. 524. Lemon Cream. Take a pint of good cream, add to it two well-beaten yolks of eggs, four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up and stir it till almost cold, put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. Serve in cups or glasses. 525. Lemon Cream frothed. Sweeten a pint of cream with loaf-sugar, put in the rind of a lemon, set it oyer the fire, and just let it boil, strain the juice of a large lemon into a deep china or glass dish, when the creani is nearly cold put it into a tea-pot ami pour it upon the juice, holding the tea-pot as high as pos- sible. Let it remain in the same dish. 526. Snow Cream. To a pint of cream add the whites of two new-laid eggs well beaten, a little sherbet, and sugar to the taste, whip it to a froth, and serve it in a dish, or lay it on custard or trifle. 527. Stone Cream. Put in the dish for the table three spoonsful of lemon-juice with a little of the peel grated, some apricot or any other sweetmeat chopped small, then fake a pint of good craam with a little isinglass and some sugar, boil it till the isin- glass is dissolved, then strain into a jug with a spout, when about the heat of new milk pour it over your sweetmeats round and round in the dish till it be all in.—Jt should be made sonje hours before wanted.132 .CREAMS, FLUMMERY, &|G. 528, Velvet Cream. Take a large teg-spoonful of sherbet, the juice of a large Jemon, nearly half an ounce of isinglass, and sugar to the taste; let it boil till the isinglass is dissolved, then strain jt, and pour about a pint of cream to it, let it stand till cold, then pour it into moulds. 529. Apple Solid. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in half a pint of water, strain it, and put it to a pound and half of good tort baking apples, when pared and boiled to a pulp, and the water well drained from them; add the juice and grated rind of a Jemon, and bruised loaf-sngar to the taste ; boil all toge- ther till it will leave the sides of the pun, then put it into a mould.—If right, it w ill cut like citron. 630. Lemon Solid. Boil the rind of two lemons pared very thin, and half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of cream and quarter of a pint ©f milk, with sugar to the taste; when the isinglass is dissolved, strain it, and when nearly cold put in the juice of two lemons, stirring it till it is ready ior the moulds, which will be jyhen it begins to stiffen. 53 J. Lemon Solid„ .Grate the rind of a large lemon, w ith some lumps of sugar, into a china dish, and strain the juice upon it, boil a pint of thick cream, sweeten to your taste and pour it hot upon the lemon, but do not stir it; when cold, ornament with sweetmeat: this quantity will only he sufficient fora small dish. 532. Creapi Sponge. J3oil an ounce and half of isinglass in a quart of good cream, strain, and let it stand to cool, but not to set; take off the yellow rind of a lemon with lump-sugar, and grate the sugar into a howl, squeeze the juice of the lemon133 CREAMS, flummery, &c. upon it, mix this with the cream, and whisk all together till it begins to stiffen, then put it into moulds, and let it remain all night. 533. Raspberry Sponge. This may be made the same way as cream sponge, using raspberry-juice instead of lemon-juice and rind. Strawberry Sponge is made after the same manner, 534. Lemon Sponge. Dissolve one ounce pf isinglas in a pint of water, then strain and let it stand till nearly cold ; add half a pound of bruised loaf-sugar, the juice of three lemons, beat the white of one egg Jo a froth, and add tp the other in- gredients, beat them all together for an hour, then put it into moulds. The rinds of the lemons should be Steeped in the water the isinglass is dissolved in. 535. Gooseberry Cream. Boil one quart of gooseberries with just as much water as will cover them, stir in half an ounce of fresh butter; when soft, pulp them through a sieve, sweeten the pulp while hot with good sugar, then beat it up with the yolks of four eggs, serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. Good cream may be used instead of yolks of eggs, 536. Italian Cream. Take two parts of sweet cream and one of milk, about a quart in all, boil, and pour it on four ounces of fine sugar and the thin rind of a lemon; when well flavoured, add the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and beat the w^ole very well; set it on the fire stirring till it begins to thicken ; add three quarters of an ounce of isinglass, (which has been dissolved m as little water as possible), whisk it well, then strain through a lawn sieve, and pour it into moulds. ty would be well to try a little in a small cup. MCREAMS, FLUMMERY, &C. 134 •337. Quince Cream. Take quinces when quite ripe, pare and cut them in quar- ters, scald them till they are soft, pulp them through a hair sieve ; mix an equal weight of quince and Hue pow- dered sugar, and the whites of eggs beaten till as white as snow ; it is then ready to serve. Apple cream may be made in the same way. 538. Raspberry Cream. Mash the fruit gently, and let it drain through a sieve, sprinkling a little sugar on the fruit, which will pro- duce more juice, then put the juice to some cieam and sweeten it, then a little milk may be added, but the cream must be pu* in first or the milk will curdle. It may be made from jam or jelly when the fresh fruit cannot be ob- tained. If made with jam, put six ounces to a pr:t of cream, pulp it through asie^e, and add the juice of a lemon, whisk it in a shallow' dish ; lay the froth on a sieve adding a little mere lemon-juice; when no more froth will rise, put the ertam in a dish or glasses, and heap on the froth. Strawberry cream may be made the same way, 539. Raspberry Cream. Rub the pulp from a quart of raspberries through a hair sieve, mix it well with cream and fine sugar to the taste, put it in a stone jug and mill it with a chocolate mill of small whisk, taking off the froth as it rises, and laying it on a hair sieve, as mpeh as will be wanted, put the remainder in a glass dish, and heap the froth upon it. A mixture of strawberry and red currant cream, the fruit to be strained through a cloth strainer, may be made the same way. 540. Blanc-.mange. Simmer two ounces of isinglass in a quart of new milk half an hour, then add a pint of cream, one ounce of bitter almonds blanched and bruised a little, or a few laurel-leaves and cinijamon, stir it on a slow fire twenty minutes, add sugar135 CREAMS, FLUMMERY, &C. to the taste, stir till nearly cold ; let k stand to settle, then clear it oft' into moulds. Or take one ounce of isinglass to a quart of cream. Simmer them with two ounces of sweet almonds and one of bitter, blanched and bruised a little* sweeten and put in a very little fresh butter, keep stirring till it boils, strain, and stir it till almost cold, then pour it iuto Cups. 541. Blane-mange. Put an ounce of isinglass into a basin with boiling water enough just to cover it, let it stand till the next day ; then add a pint of cream, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and fine sugar to the taste; boil all together till the isin- glass is dissolved, strain through a fine sieve; when settled pour it into moulds. The moulds must first be scalded, then dipped in cold water, before the blanc-mange is put in, or it will not turn out. Bitter almonds may be used instead of orange-flower water. 542. French Flummery. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a quart of cream, boil gently over a slow fire quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time ; then take it oft' and add sugar to the taste, put in a spoonful of rose-water and another of orange-flower water, strain and pour it into a mould; when cold, turn it out. 543. Dutch Flummery. Pour three quarters of a pint of boiling water over an ounce of isinglass, and set it by till the next day; add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, half a pint of sherbet, lemon-juice, and loaf-sugar rubbed on the rind, to the taste; set all together over a brisk fire till the isin- glass is dissolved, stirring it all the time, then strain through a tiue sieve into moulds. Wetting the moulds. Boil some of the rind of the lemon pared thin, with the other ingr edienls. 544. Green Flummery. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in boiling water, and put136 CREAMS, FLUMMERY, &C. to it two ounces of sweet and one of bitter almonds and as much juice ot spinach as will make it green, set it over a slow fire till near boiling, then strain through a gauze sieve ; when it grows thick pour it into a mould, and the next day turn it out. 545. Rice Flummery. Boil quarter of a pound of ground rice slow ly in a quart of new milk, add a little lemon-peel, forty bitter almonds, chopped fine, quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar; stir it all the time when on the fire, and when boiled to a consist- ency pour it into a mould; let it stand all night ; serve with cream and preserve. 546. Biscuit Trifle. Soak sponge biscuits in sherbet till they will absorb no more, lay them in a dish, and pour round a custard, or cream, sugar, and lemon-juice, well whisked ; just before the trifle is served, sprinkle over it some nonpareil comfits, or stick a few blanched split almonds into it. Macaroon or ratafias may be used instead of biscuits. 547. Gooseberry or Apple Trifle. Scald any quantity of either of these fruits, as much as will make a thick layer at the bottom of a dish, when pulped through a sieve; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine; add sugar to the taste. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg, give it a scald over the fire and stir it all the time, but do not let it boil; add a little sugar, and let it stand till cold : lay it over the apples with a spoon, and then a whip made the day before as for other trifle. 548. A Froth to set on Trifle or Custard. Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other scalded fruit, add the whites of four eggs wrell beaten, beat the pulp with them until it will stand very high, put it on the trifle, &c. with a spoon; it will take any form, and should be rough, to imitate a rock.CREAMS, FLUMMERY, &C. 137 549. Ivory Jelly. v To six ounces of ivorv powder put two quarts of water, cover the jar, and set it in a moderate oven till reduced nearly one half; then strain, and either let it stand to be cold and set, or, if wanted immediately> put it in a pan and set it on the fire, with nearly half a pint of sherbet, the rind of a lemon pared very thin, the juice of two or more lemons according to the size, and sugar to the taste; stir in the whites of four new-laid eggs well beaten; Jet it boil five minutes, then run it through a flannel jelly-bag dipped in hot water and wrung quite dry. The flavor may be va- ried by adding two table-spoonsful of orange-flower water, or using Seville oranges instead of lemons, or a mixture of both. 550. Isinglass Jelly. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a quart of water, strain* and let it stand till cold, then clear it from the sedi- ment, and put it in a pan, with the rind of a lemon pared very thin, the juice of oranges or lemons, and sugar to the taste; add half a pint of sherbet, and clear with the w hites of eggs as before, the shells also may be added; when it has boiled about five minutes, put in half a tea-cupful of cold water, and boil a few minutes longer, then cover it with flannel and a plate, and h t it stand twenty minutes; run it through a jelly-bag as bove, returning it into the bag till it runs clear. 551. Spanish Rice Jelly. Boil a pint of thick cream with a stick of cinnamon, let it stand to cool, then strain, and set it on tire fire with three ounces of rice-flour sifted through a lawn sieve, the whites of three eggs well beaten, sugar to the taste, and a little rose-water, boil till about the thickness of hasty pudding, wet six cups or glasses with rose-water and pour it in ; when cold, turn it out on a dish and serve. M 2138 CREAMS, FLUMMERY, &C. 552. Cranberry and Rice Jelly. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and mix into it by degrees as much ground rice as will when boiled thicken to a jelly; boil gently, stirring it, and sweeten to the taste, put it in a basin or mould and turn it out; serve with milk or cream. 553. Hen’s Nest in Jelly. Make a small hole at one end of five or six eggs, take out the inside and fill them with blanc-mange; when quite stiff peel oft the shells; pour very clear ivory or isinglass jelly into a proper sized basin, as high as will make it a right shape; when set, turn it out and put it in a dish the round part downward, with lemon-peel shred like straws laid round and round the top of the jelly, and lay the eggs in the middle. 554. Orange Jelly. Dissolve an ounce and three quarters of isinglass in a pint of water, squeeze and strain the juice of six oranges jand two lemons, with as much of the rind of each rubbed off with loaf-sugar as suits the taste; grate the sugar into half a pint of sherbet, mix all together, and let it boil a few minutes, strain through (flannel, and if not a pretty color, take a little out and put in it a little saffron ; when of a good color, strain and mix it with the jelly. Put it in moulds. 555. Arrow-root Jelly. Put half a pint of water on the fire with a glass of sherbet, a little grated rind of a lemon and the juice strained, fine sugar to the taste; let it boil, then pour it by degrees upon a dessert-spoonful of arrow-root previously mixed smooth with two spoonsful of cold water, stir it well and return it into the pan, and boil three minutes. 556. Orange Butter. Take juice of six oranges, the yolks of three eggs, withcreams, flummery, &c. I $9 half a pint of sherbet; after beating the eggs Well, add the orange-juice, beat it a little more, then add the sherbet, strain through a thin cloth; set it on a slow fire stirring gently till it becomes thick, then take it off, and With a spoon lay it on a pewter dish till cold. Serve in a glass dish, or in any form you please. 557. Fairy Butter, To the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, take quarter of a pound of butter, three ounces of fine sugar, moistened with a table-spoonful of lemon-juice ; beat all together to a fine paste, let it stand in a cool place three hours, then rub it through a wire sieve on the plate intended for the table. 558. Fairy Butter. Boil four eggs hard, beat the yolks in a mortar with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and beaten to a paste; moisten with orange-flower water, and when all are mixed, mb it through a colander on a dish, and serve biscuits or ratafia drops between. 559. Irish Butter. Dissolve an ounce and a half of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water, strain, and add to it a pint and a half of cream, the whites of three eggs well beaten, a very little saffron to colour it, steeped in two table-spoonsful of orange- flower water and strained, add sugar to the taste; boil it quarter of an hour, then strain it through a lawn sieve, either into a mould to turn out, or into a basin to be cut out in slices or any other form. The mould should be dipped in cold water. 560. Italian Cheese, Take one pint of cream, and a tea-cupful of sherbet, sweeten to the taste, whisk it up, and put it into a hairCftEAMS, FIUMMERY, &C. 140 sieve, with a piece of muslin over, to drain till rtext da}', turn it out into a dish, strew it over with candied lemon shred fine, or almonds blanched and split. 561. Lemon Cheese. Take a quart of cream and half a pint of sherbet, grate imo it the rinds of two lemons, add the juice of three lemons strained, and sugar to the taste; Whisk it twenty minutes, then lay a thin cloth in a sieve and pour it in, the next day turn it carefully out of the cloth, and garnish with candied or preserved orange sliced thin, or nonpareil comfits. The above quantity makes a large dish. 56*2. Cream Curds. To a quart of cream take six eggs, be&t and strain them into it. and mix them well together, have three quarts of water on the fire, with a little salt in it, when it boils put in a table-spoonful of vinegar, or a pint of thick sour but- termilk ; stir in the eggs and cream, and as the curds rise keep sprinkling in a little cold water with your fingers; when sufficiently risen take the pan off the fire and let it stand a little, lay a cloth in a sieve or colander, and skim the curds into it. Hie}" will be ready to turn out the next day, and are excellent. 563. Whipt Syllabubs. Put a pint of cream into a large jug, add to it half a pint of sherbet, lemon-juice, and sugar to the taste; mill them well together with a chocolate mill, or froth it with a syr- inge, and as the froth keeps rising take it off with a spoon, and put it into the syllabub glasses. They should be made the day before they are to be used. Tbey are very nice in the summer-time made with led currant-juice, instead of lemon-juice. 564. A Lemon Syllabub. Hub quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar in one piece on the rind of two lemons till you have got all the essence out of them ; then put the sugar into a pint of cream and a gill of141 CREAMS, FLUMMERY, &C. sherbet, squeeze in the juice of both the lemons, and let it stand for two hours; then whip it with a whisk, or mill it with a chocolate-mill, and as the froth rises take it off, and put it on a sieve to drain. Let it stand all night, then put the clear into the glasses, and with a spoon put on the froth as high as you ean. 565. Seville Orange, or Lemon Posset. Squeeze Seville orange or lemon-juiceinto a glass dish, of mix them together, if preferred, and sweeten well with fine sugar; theu take cream, and warm it over the fire with a bit of lemon-peel, but not to boil, put it into a tea-pot and pour It into the juice, holding the tea- pot up very high, that it may lroth and curdle the better. Instead of cream, milk thickened with one or two yolks of eggs, may be used if more convenient. 566. Orange or Lemon Posset. Grate some crumbs of bread and put into a pint of water, with half the peel of a Seville orange, or lemdri grated, or sugar rubbed into it to take out the essence ; boil all toge- ther till it looks thick and clear, beat it well; to the juice of half a lemon or orange put a pint of sherbet, two ounces of the best almonds blanched and beaten, and half an ouirce of bitter ones, beaten very fine with a little orange- flower water, add sugar to the taste, mix well and put it to the posset: serve it up in a bowl or tureen. 567. A Dish of Snow* Put six apples over the fire in cold water; when they are soft, skin, and pulp them through a sieve, beat up the whites of six eggs to a froth, sift quarter of a pound of double refined sugar and strew it in the eggs; beat the pulp to a froth, then beat the whole together, till it be like stiff snow: heap it high on a china dish. 568. Floating Island of Apples. Bake or scald eight or nine large apples; when cold, pare and pulp them through a sieve; beat this up with fine142 fcRfiAMS, FLUMMERY, &C. Sugar, put to it the whites of four eggs that haVe been beaten with a little rose-watef ; mix it a little at a time, beat till light; heap it on alrtlond custard; or on jelly. 609. A Floating Island. Take the whites of four new-laid eggs and d little currant- jelly, put them in a large basin and beat them till they are very rtiiich frothed, then pour a little strong balm-tea iipon a pint of creartl. and put in as much rennet as will make it thick in the dish) lay the froth on and strew small comfits bii the top. 570. Lemori Honeycomb. Sweeten the j dice of a lemon to the taste, and put it in a glass or china dish; mix the white of an egg that is beaten with a pint of good cream; the rind of a lemon, and a little sugar ; \Vhisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon- jtiice. Prepafe it tlie day before it is to be used. 571. Raspberry Ice. Take One pint of cream, with as much raspberry pulp (the seeds having been strained out) as will make it a pretty color, sweeten to the taste ; dissolve an ounee of isinglass in very little water, strain, and let it stand till nearly cold; whisk the raspberry and cream five minutes, then whisk in the isinglass. 572. Loaf Royal. Take out nearly all the crumb of a small round or oval loaf of due white bread, put the crust in cream to soften, then fill it with raspberry jam, placing the crust on the top, which has been cut out to take out the crumb, after being soaked in the cream j put it on a dish, and pour over it a good custard. 573 Hedgehog. Take a pint of creanii and half a pint of fiew milk, a little inace, and a few bitter almonds blanched and chopped fine.m BftEAP, BUN$, &C. set ail together on the tire, when near boiling, qdd teq eggs weir beaten, stirring it on the tire till it tarns to >jhey and curds; take it off thp tire and add line sugar U> {he taste; put it in a thin cloth, gn4 hang it up [ill the >jliey be \yd] drained from the quid, or tilj the next day, then turn it out, and stick almondg blanched and sliced al| qyer it. Oustar4 «r jelly may he put round itqn the dish. g= - - • ■ =38 JJREAD, BUNS, &c. 574. To make Bread with Leaven. Take a piece of leaven the size of a goose egg to half a peck of flour, make a hole in the middle of the flour and break the leaven into it, and put as much water made milk.warm as will wet half the flour : mix the leaven and flour well together, then coyer with the remainder of the flour, and let it stand all night. The next morning the whole lump will he well fdrmented or leavened; add a little salt, and as much warm water (not warmer than new milk) as will mix it, knead it up quite stiff and firm till it be smooth and pliable, the more it is kneaded the better : let it stand by the fine about two hours, then make it up into loaves and bake them. In the noathern counties, where leaven is most used, it is common to mix some rye flour, in the proportion of about a fourth part, with the wheaten flour in leavened bread, and which, in all common household bread, is a great improvement. 575. To make Bread with Yeast. Put some water milk-iyarm to as much yeast as will be required, stir it well together, and let it stand lo settle five144 BREAD, BUVS, &C. or six minutes; then make a hole in the middle of your flour, and pour the water carefully off, leaving the brown sediment at the bottom, add more water, and mix it with a part of the flour into a kind of batter : strew a little flour over it, and let the remainder lie round it. This is called setting the sponge, and should he done two hours at the least previous to kneading, for a large quantity it should be done the night before, and by morning it will be much risen : add then more warm water and some salt, knead it exceedingly well into a pretty stiff dough, and let it rise two hours or less according to quantity, then make it into loaves. A quartern loaf requires about Byo honrs in a well-heated oven, larger ones in proportion. 676. Bread with Potatoes. To fourteen pounds of good sound flour, either coarse or fine, take five pounds of potatoes, pared and washed very clean, boil them in a proper quantity of water till quite soft, mash them and rub them through a wire sieve into the middle of the flour, adding water sufficient to make it of a proper heat, and some salt; when well mixed add a due proportion of yeast; cleared with warm water a§ in the preceding receipt, let it rise an hour or more in the sponge, and then knead it very well, let it stand to rise ail hour or longer according to quantity, and bake it in the usual way. This bread eats well, and is not so soon stale as the common bread. 577. To make BreqfL with a mixture of Rice. Boil a pound of rice in water till quite tender, pour off the water, and put the nee before it is cold to sjx pounds of flour, add the usual quantity of yeast, a little more than the usual quantify of salt and as much luke-warm water (adding the water the rice was boiled in) as will make it into dough, it will require the same time to rise, and is to be baked in the same way. 578. Bread for Toast and Butter. Take two pounds of flour after being gently w armed beforeBREAD; BUNS, &C. 145 ihe fire, and rub it into ’naif a pound of warm mealy pota- toes. When well mixed, add a proper quantity of yeast and salt, with warm milk and water sufficient to make it into dough, which must be allowed two hours to rise, before being formed into a loaf; then put it into a tin, and when in the oyen take care it be net over-browned. 579. Scalded Bread. Take about one third of the quantity of flour you intend to use, pour boiling water upon it, stirring it till it be rather a stitt’ paste, let it stand till cold, then knead with the re- mainder of the flour, adding warm water, yeast, and salt as for other bread: it must be extremely well kneaded, then let it rise two or three hours; bake it in tins that will hold about nine pounds; the oven should be hot as for other bread when first put in, but it should remain in the oven some time longer than that which is made in the usual way. It is usual to put it in the oven at night, whence it has obtained the name of night bread. When baked, fold it in a wet linen cloth, and put it in the cellar a day or two before it is cut, This is an excellent way of making bread, and will keep well if properly managed ; hut much depends on the kneading and the heat of the oven. It is only proper for coarse flour; that makes the best bread where the corn is ground all together, or only a little of the coarse bran taken out. 580. Household Bread. Take flour, six pounds; water, two and a half pints; yeast, four ounces or eight spoonsful; and salt one ounce and half. Let the water be made newr milk warm, put a p nt and a half of it to the yeast, mix, and let it stand to settle; then clear it off into the middle of the flour, stirring as much of the flour into it as will make it like batter, or w bat is generally understood by laying it in sponge; when it has risen sufficiently, dissolve the salt in the remaining pint of warm water, add it to the mass and mix all toge- ther; knead it well and set it again to rise, then make it up into loaves, and bake in the usual way. N146 BREAD, BUNS, &C. 581. Common Wheat en Bread on Mr. Cobbett's Plan, Make a hole in the middle of a bushel of flour; stir a pint of yeast into some milk-warm water, let if stand a little to settle, then pour it into tne middle of the flour, and stir it with a wooden slice about a minute, tiil you have a thin batter; sprinkle a little flour over the batter, and cover the whole with a cloth three or four folds to keep it warm ; set it at a proper distance from the fire, according to the state of the weather and the season of the year; when the batter has risen enough to make cracks through which it ferments, form the whole into dough thus:—strew in six ounces of salt, then work the flour into the batter round the edges, pouring in milk-warm water, or milk, as it is wanted, till the whole is moistened ; knead it extremely well. It may then either be immediately formed into loa\es, lettiug them rise twenty minutes befoie put in the oyen; or let the dough rise an hour in the mass, and then make it up into loaves. Bake according to the size. 58$. French Bread. Take a peck of fine flour, make a hole in the middle, put a quart of luke-warm milk and water to some good yeast, stir it well together aud let it stand five 'o’- six minutes to settle, then pour it carefully through a hair sieve into the flour (leaviug the brpwn sediment at the bottom of the basin), stir it till of the consist- ence of thipkish batter, throw a cloth over, and let it lise an hour in a warm place; then add an ounce of sifted sugar, a little salt, aud as much luke-warm milk w'ith half a pound of fresh butter melted in it as w ill make it into dough of a moderate stiffness; let it rise another hour, then mould it up into bricks, lay them on tins, and set them before the fire half an hour to rise, lightly covered with a cloth ; bake in a brisk oven. This is the French bread as made in England, but in France itis usually made with leaven. 583. Another Way to make French Bread. Take quarter of a peck of the finest flour, a little salt.147 llREAD, BUNS5, &C. Veast, and as much milk rather warm as will make it into a light dough, adding the yolks of three and the whites of two eggs beaten and strained ; stir it about and beat it a little, but do not knead it. Have ready three quart Wooden dishes, lightly rubbed over with a little butter, divide the dough into them, set to rise, then turn them out into a quick oven. Rasp them when baked. *584 Bread, with a Mixture of Wheat ond Indian- Corn Flour. Take one third of Indian-corn Hour to two thirds of Wheat- Hour ; scald the corn-flour by pouring on it, and mixing it up with a quart of boiling water to every four and half pounds, which will only just wet it in such degree as to leave part of it quite dry. Having thus scalded the Corn-flour, lay it out in small lumps on a clean board to cool; then take it and rub it well into the two-thirds of wheat-flour ; this being done, the whole will appear like dry flour, then proceed as directed in No. 581, to set the sponge, to let it rise, to make the dough and bake it. The finer the wheat flour is, the more water it will absorb ; but the very finest of Wheat-flour will not absoi'b so much water, pound for pound, as corn-flour. 585 Potato-Flour. The potatoes must be clean washed, pared, and lightly grated into an earthen pan of cold water; let it stand till the pulp falls to the bottom and the water begins to clear, then pom* off the water, and add a good deal more of spring water, stirring the pulp with your hand, rub it .through a hair sie^e, pouring plenty of Water upon it in passing through the sieve; let the water stand till the farina subsides and the water clears, then pour the water gently oli, add fresh water several times; then put the farina upon earthen dishes before the fire, covered with paper to keep out the dust; when quite dry, pound to a fine pow- der, and sift it through a lawn sieve. The fibre that remains in the sieve may be used with148 BREAD, BUNS, ScC. wheat-flour in making bread, as directed in the following receipt. The potato-flour keeps well in tin cannisters or bottles, and may be very usefully applied to a variety of purposes. 586. Potato Flour. Twelve pounds of wheat-flour kneaded with six pounds of the fibre of potatoes, will nroduce, when well baked, twenty-one pounds of excellent bread. The mode of pre- paring the fibre is as follows: •‘“••After washing it in two waters, place it about an hour upon a sieve to drain, and add to it in its raw state the usual quantity of yeast mixed with a little Warm water and salt; let it stand about an hour, then work well in the twelve pounds of flour. It requires very little addition of water, but rather a longer time to rise. A wholesome bread may be made with the potato fibre and either harley flour or oatmeal. The addition of some of the potato flour which has been separated from the fibre (by washing and afterwards dried), would make it more nourishing. 1 n a time of scarcity and bad harvest the corn is gene- rally unsound, and often very difficult and troublesome to make the flour into bread at all; in such a case, the com- mon soda will be found one of the most simple and best means to remedy that defect, in the proportion of quarter of a pound to every fifteen pounds of flour; in some in- stances more might be required, and others less, accord- ing to the state of the flour. The flour should be made as dry as possible, and the soda either powdered fine and mixed with it, or dissolved in the water you make up the bread with. It is a much more wholesome ingredient to mix in bread than alum, and many other things which are used for that purpose, and has been repeatedly tried. When a loaf is hard baked, it answers exceedingly well to wash it very well with a clean cloth and cold watei, a short tim ? after it is taken out of the oven, or while it con- tinues hot; fold it jn a cloth, and lay it in the cellar a day or two before you cut it.149 BREAD, BUNS, &C. 587. Bath Buns. To three pounds of flour take four spoonsful of yeast, three eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, melted in a pint and a half of milk* a few caraway seeds, and a little salt, mix all together in rather a light dough, let it stand till well risen, then roll it out in small cakes; dip a clean fea- ther in a little milk and wet them over, then bake them in a moderate oven. 588. Buns. Rub half a pound of butter in three pounds of flour, set it to rise with a little good yeast, and a pint and a half of warm milk ; when risen well in the sponge, add two eggs well-beaten, half a pound of good raw sugar, a few car- away seeds, currants, atid a little salt; mix all well together in rather a light dough, set it to rise again, then make it up into buns, and bake them in small tins in rather a brisk oven. Half a pound of raisins may be added. 589. Buns. Rub quarter of a pound of butter into two pounds of flour and quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar powdered ; add two eggs well-beaten, two table-spoonsful of yeast, and a table-spoonful of caraway seeds; mix the whole into a paste about the stiffness of bread-dough, with warm' milk; let it stand all night to rise, and the next day make it into buns and bake them. 590. Excellent Buns, To three and a half pounds of flour, take half a pound of butter, half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, three eggs well beaten, a pint and three quarters of new milk just warm, and four table-spoonsful of good yeast; let it rise well in sponge, then mix them up with currants, caraway- seeds, lemon-peel grated, or candied lemon. They should be verv light, and baked in cheesecake tins. They are very nice without the currants.BREAD, BUNS, &C. 150 591. Common Buns. To three pounds of flour put half a pound of sugar, rub in quarter of a pound cf butter and a little salt; warm nearly a pint and half of new milk, and mix with it five table- sponsful of yeast, when it has sto mI a little to settle, clear it off into the middle of the flour stirring it till of a thin batter, cover it and let it rise well in the sponge; then mix it up with three quarters of a pound of currants well cleaned, a tea-spoonful of ginger, and half an ounce of caraway-seeds. Make it up into buns, cover them with a cloth, and let them rise twenty minutes, or half an hour in cold weather, and bake them in a brisk oven. 592. Hard Biscuits. Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a stiff paste, beat it with a paste roller, and work it smooth, roll it out thin, and cut it into round cakes, prick them with a fork. Six minutes will bake them. 593. Biscuits or Cracknels. Take three pounds of flour, rub in six ounces of butter quite fine, very little salt, one egg well beaten with a small table-spoonful of well purified yeast, mix all together with as much skimmed milk as will make it a very stiff paste, knead it, and beat it with a paste roller till perfectly smooth ; cover with a cloth, and let it stand an hour and a half or two hours, then roll it out as thin as possible, cut the cakes with a tin cutter, and prick them with a stamp made with wire for the purpose the size of the biscuit, bake them on tins in rather a quick oven. The paste must be very stiff, or the biscuits will not be nice. They will keep good for many weeks in a dry place. 594. Excellent Biscuits. To a pound of flour, put a little salt and one egg well beaten, mix it up with as much water (with a tea-spoonful of yeast) as will make it up in a st'ff paste, knead it till151 BREAD, BUNS, &C- quite smooth, cover it up close half an hour, then roll it out, and put in quarter of a pound of butter, as for puff paste, dredge with flour, and roll it out well, stamp or prick, and cut it in squares or any form you please, bake in rather a quick oven. 595. Plain and very Crisp Biscuits. Take a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk, make them into a very stiff paste, beat it well, and knead it till quite smooth ; roll it out very thin, and cut it into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven till they are quite dry and crisp. 590. Crushers, or Stamped Biscuits. Rub quarter of a pound of butter in a pound of flour, mix with cold water, and a tea-spoonful of yeast, knead it till quite smooth, cover it on the board with a basin for half an hour, make it into balls, and put each into the mould of a small butter print, or roll out the paste about the third of an inch in thickness, and stamp it with the print. By adding two ounces of sugar, and a few caraway seeds to the above mixture, the biscuits will be very similar to w hat are called Aberncthy Biscuits. 597. Excellent Rolls. Warm an ounce of butter in a pint of milk, put to it a spoonful and a half of yeast, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour in a bowl, and mix in the above; let it rise an hour, then knead it well; make it into seven rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. A little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of the milk, and strained into the above, is an improvement. 598. Rolls with a mixture of Potatoes. Dry a pound and a half of flour. Bruise a pound of well- boiled mealy potatoes, mash them with half an ounce of butter, and half a pint of milk, till they will pass through a wire sieve. Put quarter of a pint of warm milk to three table-spoonsful of good yeast, add a little salt, and make152 BREAD, BtWS, &C. it the usual stiffness of dough. Let. it stand before the tire to rise, then work it up into common sized rolls, and bake them half an hour in a pretty quick oven. They eat well toasted and buttered. 599. French Rolls. Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; add to it one egg, two spoonsful of yeast, and a little salt, mixed with as much milk, just warmed, as will make it into a light paste. Let this rise half an hour, then make it into moderate sized rolls, and set them before the fire half an hour longer. Half an hour will bake them in a quick oven. 600. Brentford Rolls. Take two pounds of flour, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and two ounces of sugar finely powdered. Put to these, three Janie spoonsful of good yeast, and milk enough made just warm, to mix it into a light paste. Set this before the fire to rise for half an hour, then roll out the dough thin, make it into twelve rolls, let them stand before the fire to rise, and bake them in a brisk oven. 601. Breakfast Cakes. Rub quarter of a pound of butter into two pounds and quarter of flour, put to it a little yeast, three eggs and a pint of warm new milk, with a little salt, knead it up and let it stand on the hearth to rise, then make it into rolls or cakes, cover them with a cloth, and let them rise a little longer, bake them in a moderate oven. 602. Common Tea Cakes. To two pounds of flour take half a pint of new milk and nearly the same of water, hot enough to make the whole a proper warmth to mix with three table spoonsful of good yeast, let it settle a little, rub two ounces of butter in the flour, and a little salt, mix in the yeast, &c. and let it rise in sponge, then make it up in the usual way.153 BREAD, BUttS, kt. If wished to be made richer, mix entirely with new milk* and add two well beaten eggs. Currants may also be added. 603. Scotch Tea Cakes; Take three pounds of flour well dried, with a little salt iii it, warm a pint and quarter of new milk, put half of it to four large spoonsful of good yeast, stirring it well; when settled, mix it into the middle of the flour, and quarter of a pound of butter melted in the remainder of the milk, let it stand covered up three quarters of an hour, then add three well beaten eiigs> four table-spoonsful of warm cream, hall a pound of currants, half an Ounce of caraway seeds, and half a pound of good sugar, mix all well toge- ther, and when risen make it Up in cakes, lay them on warm tins, rubbed over with a little butter, cover them with a cloth, and set them on the hearth fifteen or twenty minutes, then bake them in rather a brisk oven. 604. Mts. Broom head's Crumpets. To a quart of good milk, rather warm, take four large spoonsful of purified yeast, and a little salt, mixiug it by degrees into as much flour (beating it a little to take out the lumps) as will make rather a thick batter, and add two well beaten eggs, then cover and set it on the hearth to rise; when well risen, keep taking the batter from the top with a wooden spoon, and bake it on a bake-stone or iron plate, rubbed over with a bit of butter in a clean cloth : about quarter of a pint of batter will make a good-sized crumpet; turn them as soon as possible after you lay them on with a tin slice the size of the cake; when browned, turn them again, and lay them on a cooler part of the stone to soak a little, always keep the hottest part to pour the fresh batter upon, and take care they do not burn. As they are baked lay them on a clean cloth, and keep them covered. When to be used, toast them, or lay them on a tin with a clean wet linen cloth over them, and set them in the oven, they will eat as if fresh baked. To dip them quickly in milk or water answers the same pur-154 BREAD, BUNS, &C, pose as a wet cloth. Be careful not to dry them, or they frill not be nice. 605. Common Crumpets. Take a pint and half of milk, just warm, mix with it five table spoonsful of good yeast, when it has stood to settle, pour it off by degrees into tfro pounds of Hour and a little salt, stirring it till well mixed, beat it till it become a thick batter. A small portion of salt of tartar dissolved in a little milk (in the proportion of about a tea spoonful to two pounds of flour) and stirred well in, is a great im- provement. When well risen bake them as above. 606. Potato Crumpets. Grate some potatoes of the most mealy kind into some clean water, rub them through a hair sieve adding plenty of water, then pour off the water leaving the starch quite clear at the bottom, mix it with the potatoes, and to about three pounds of potatoes mix half a pound of flour, an egg, and a little salt; bake them in the same manner as crum- pets, and butter them hot. A spoonful of yeast may be added. 607. Muffins. To three pounds of the finest flour, take a pint and a half of warm indk and water, with some good yeast well purified, and a little salt, strain the liquor into the flour, and beat it quarter of an hour ; set it an hour to rise, pull it into pieces the size of an egg, roll them in the hand like balls, put them on a cloth dredged well with flour a*nd laid on the hearth, lay a clean flannel over them as you roll them up, also keep the dough closely covered the whole of tve time. Ail the dough being rolled into halls, those first done will he ready for baking, and will spread out into the light form for muffins, lay them on the heated plate or stone, and as the bottom begins to change colour, turn them on the other side, but be cartful they do not burn.153 BItRADB, BUNS, &C. 608. Muffins another icay. Take three pounds of flour, make a hole in the middle, then mix ttyo or three large spoonsful of yeast with a little salt, ail'd as much milk rather warm as will make it into a light paste (it will take about a pint and half) pour it into the middle of the flour, stirring a little of the flour into it, let it stand ail night covered with a cloth, then beat it well together quarter of an honr, let it stand an hour to rise, then take the batter out with a large spoon and lay it on a board well dredged with flour in round pieces little larger than an egg, cover them with a flannel on the hearth till the stone be hot, then slide them off the board upon the stone of plate, when bfowned on the under side turn them. 609. Yorkshire Muffins. Take two pounds of flour with a little salt, warm a pint pt new milk, mix a part of it to four large spoonsful of fresh yeast, and melt two ounces of butter in the remainder, put it in the flour with two well beaten eggs, and when the yeast is settled, add it to the flour and mix all well toge- ther, beat the dough with a wooden spoon twenty minutes, make it up into balls on a hoard well dredged, lqy a cloth in a tray on the hearth, dredge it well with flour, and as you make them up lay them on at a proper dis- tance from each other, in order that they may not run together in rising; cover them with a cloth, and in about twenty minutes have your tins hot, lay them on quickly and shape them a little with your fingers, bake them in a quick oven and watch them well. A tea spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little of the milk, and mixed up with the dough, adds much to the lightness, and is a wholesome addition. 61Q. Rusks, or Tops and Bottoms. Beat four eggs with half a pint of new milk, in which has been melted quarter of a pound of butter, add to it two large spoonsful of yeast, und three ounces of sugar, putBREAD, BUNS, &C. 156 them by degrees into as much flour as will make a very light paste, rather like batter ; let it rise before the fire half an hour, then add more flour to make it a little stifler. Work it well and divide it into small cakes and flatten them; when baked and cold, slice them in two, and put them in a cool oven to dry and brown a little. 611. Rusks. To three pounds of flour take six ounces of sifted sugar,, six ounces of butter, and three spoonsful of yeast, mix it with as much new milk, rather warm, as will make it into rather a light dough, sel it before the fire to rise; when risen, roll it into cakes, about five or six inches in length and two broad, and bake them in a moderate oven ; when baked, cut them into thin slices and dry them upon tins in a very slow oven. 612. Italian Rushs. Cut a savoy or lemon cake in two and then into slices, lay them on a baking tin, and dry them in a slow oven, till they are of a nice light brown, and quite crisp. 613. Common Rusks. Take a pound of white bread dough, roll in it four ounces of butter; when well incorporated make it up into rolls bake in a quick in oven. When the rolls are cold and the oven cool, slice them and lay them on tins to dry. These rusks are very suitable for the weak and sickly. 614. Potato Cake. Peel, boil, and mash very fine, after being well dried, two pounds of potatoes, add three ounces of butter, two ounces of moist sugar, quarter of a pound of currants, and three well beaten eggs; bake it three quarters of an hour. 615. Irish Spotted or Freckled Bread. To six pounds of flour melt a pound of butter in little more than a quart of new milk, adding six table spoonsfulBREAD, BUNS, &C. 157 of yeast and a little salt, when it has risen mix in half a pound of sugar, the same quantity of currants well cleaned and dried, and raisins stoned and chopped a little, a few almonds blanched and chopped, and some candied orange. Bake it in two loaves. This Irish breachd, or mottled loaf, is the holiday-cake of Munster. 616. Common Seed Loqf. Xo about three pounds of white bread dough that has been mixed with milk, or tea-cake paste, put half a pound of brown sugar and some caraway-seeds, knead it well, and bake as conimon bread. 617. A Sally Lun. (A wcll-kjiown cake at Bath ) To two pounds of flour take half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, when a little warm, put to it three well-beaten yolks of eggs, three or four spoonsful of well-purified yeast, and a little salt, mix the whole together and let it rise an hour, then make it info cakes, and lay them on tins lightly rubbed over with* a little butter; let them stand on the hearth to rise about twenty minutes, covered with a thin cloth, then bake them in rather a quick oven. 618. Wigs. Two pounds of flour, mix with it half a pound of sugar sifted, and an ounce of caraway-seeds; melt half a pound of butter in a pint of milk, when about as warm as new milk, pnt to it three eggs leaving out one white, and a spoonful of yeast, mix them well t( gether, and let the paste stand five hours to rise; make it into wigs, and bake them on tins. 619. Wigs. Two pounds of flour, quarter of a pound of butter rubbed in it, quarter of a pound of fine sugar, very little salt, ODREAD, BUNS, &C. 158 and three spoonsful of new yeast, make it into a light paste with half a pint of warm cream, let it stand an hour to rise ; then make it up into wigs. Bake them on tins in a quick oven. Caraway-seeds may be added if approved. They may also be made into large round cakes, crossed so as to be easily divided in quarters, and stand before the fire to rise on the tins, before they are baked. 620. Yorkshire Cakes. Dry a pound and a half of flour before the fire ; beat up an egg with a spoonful of good yeast, add three quarters of a pint of new milk luke-warm ; strain the whole through a hair sieve into the flour, mix it lightly into dough, and lot it rise by the fire an hour, then make it up into ^akes. rub the tins with very little butter, and let them be warm w hen you lay the cakes on them, cover with a thin cloth and let them rise on the hearth about twenty or thirty minut-s; bake them in a brisk oven. This makes very good buns, with a little good moist sugar and a few caraway-seeds. 621. Oatcake. Mix some good oatmeal with a little salt and warm water, and a spoonful or two of yeast, beat till it is quite smooth and rather a thick batter, cover and let it stand to rise, then bake on a hot bake-stone, in the same manner as crumpets, but notqnite so quick. Those who like them soured should “ lay the leaven” as it is called, over-night. 622. Clap Bread. Mix some oatmeal and water well together, about the same consistence as common dough, then roll it out into cakes as thin as possible; bake them on a stone or iron plate of a moderate heat over the fire ; when baked on both sides set them on an edge before the fire till perfectly dry. This bread will continue good many weeks if kept in a dry place. It is very gor/d with cheese or butter, and may be toasted if preferred.BREAD, BUNS, &C, 159 623.. Potato Cakes. Boil and mash some good mealy potatoes with a little but- ter and salt, add a little good yeast and a few spoonsful of milk, with as much flour as will make it the consistence of dough, roll it into cakes, let them rise two hours, then bake in a moderate oven. The potatoes should be w ell dried after being boiled. 624. Ferment for Bread, used by the Inhabitants of Long Island, in the State of New York. Take as many hops as may be held between the thumb and three fingers, put them into a pint and a half or a quart of water, and boil them well together ; put in a few slices of apples; then pour the liquor off', or strain it through a coarse cloth, and add three or four spoonsful of molasses (treacle), and stir in as much flour as will mingle it to the consistency of thin batter. Set the whole in the corner of the kitchen fre-place, or in any temperature of moderate warmth, until a fermentation takes place, which will hap- pen in a few hour*, then mix it with flour. This will be sufficient for one baking, for a family of eight or ten persons. 625. The Method of making Leaven. (As practised in the Northern Counties.) When leaven is to be first produced, a lump of yeast dough muse be put into an earthen vessel, and set in a cool damp place. In about ten or fourteen days it will be in a proper state to use as a ferment for bread. At every making of bread, a sufficient quantity of the leavened dough should be laid by for leaven against the next baking. The makers of bread with leaven have learnt from experience, that it is best to use the same pan for keeping the leaven, and the same tub for making the bread, without ever washing them. They are kept clean by scraping. It is usual io borrow a piece of leaven to begin with; if this can be done, it is better than to make it for immediateICO BREAD, BUNS, &C. 626. To make and preserve Yeast. (As praotised in America.) To make it:—Boil a handful of hops in three pints of water three or four minutes: the water must boil when the hops are put in: strain the liquor, and then thicken it with flour to the consistence of starch. Let it stand till it is about milk-warm, and put it into a jar large enough to allow room for it to rise; then add a tea-cupful of yeast, and let it work. To preserve it:—After the yeast has risen sufficiently, add as much meal made from Indian corn (or coarse flour) as will make it stiff enough to be rolled thin ; then, imme- diately, and before it rises a second time, roll it, and with a tea-cup or tin cutter, cut it into cakes, and dry them in the shade, in an airy room, or any other suitable place. Turn them three or four times a day. After they are quite dry, put them into a basket or bag, and keep them aired, and free from moisture. One of these cakes, soaked about fifteen minutes in cold w ater, will be suffi- cient for two good-sized loaves. 627. Flour, or Perpetual Yeast. Take a pound of fine flour, and mix it up with boiling water about the thickness of moderately thick w ater-gruel; add half a pound of coarse moist sugar, and when it is luke-warm pour it upon three large spoonsful of well puri- fied yeast in a pan large enough to ghe room for the fer- mentation. As it ferments take off the yeast, and put it into a stone bottle with a small neck, cork it, and keep it in a dry warm place. When half used, replenish it with flour and water prepared as at first, but no addition of yeast will be required. This is to be the regular process to keep up the stock. 628 Flour Yeast. Boil one pound of good flour, quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water for an hour.BREAD, BtTNi, &C. 161 when milk-warm, bottle it ami cork it close. It will be fit tor use in twenty-four hours. One pint of this will make eighteen pounds of bread. 629. Flour Yeast. Thicken two quarts of water with three spoonsful of fine flour, boil it half an hour, and add half a pound of brown sugar; when nearly cold, put it in a large jug with four spoonsful of good yeast, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off, shake what remains, and cork it up for use. Take four large spoonsful of the old to ferment the next quantity, always keeping it in succession. 630. Russian Yeast. Make a thick wort of ground rye or malt, and for a gallon of this take three ounces or more of leaven, and dissolve it in a little of the wort; mix the whole, and add half a pound of ground malt; shake the mixture for some time, and in half an hour add two large spoonsful of good yeast; cover for forty-eight hours, and the whole will be good yeast. 631. Yeast. Boil two ounces of the best hops in a quart of water till reduced to a pint, strain it. To half a pound of flour dried and sifted, take an ounce of isinglass dissolved in warm water; mix the whole together in six quarts of warm water, and a tea-cupful of fresh yeasl; let it stand thirty hours in a warm place, and it will become excellent yeast, fit for any purpose. 632. Potato Yeast. Peel and boil a peck of potatoes, mash them very well, put to them about three quarts of boiling water, or as much as will make it about the thickness of yeast, then rub it through a tin colander, and add half a pound or three O 2BISCUITS, CAKES, &C. 162 quarters of good yeast; put it in an earthen pot and tie it close up, it will keep good several months in cold weather. The bread will require three times more of this than of common yeast, and rather more time to rise. 633. Potato Yeast. Peel and boil some mealy potatoes till they are soft, and when bruised add as much boiling water as will make them of the consistence of common yeast. To every pound of potatoes put in two ounces of coarse moist sugar or treacle, and two table-spoonsful of good yeast, stirred in while the potatoes are warm. Make this in a vessel large enough to admit of the fermentation, and keep it warm till it has done fermenting. It will then be fit for use. Let it be kept in the cellar, 634. To Keep Yeast. Put the yeast in a stone jar or wide-necked bottle, pour on it clean water and stir it well; cover the jar close, and set it on the floor in the cellar. By changing the water in summer every two days it will keep well, and purify it, that it may be used for any kind of bread. BISCUITS, CAKES, &c. 635. Almond Cake. Take six ounces of sweet almonds, half a pound of powdered sugar, seven eggs, six ounces of flour, and the rinds of four lemons grated ; pound the almonds very fine with a little orange-flower water, then add the lemon and yolks of eggs well beaten till it is as white as a sponge paste ; beat up the whites of the eggs to a strong froth like snow; mix them very light with the paste; then add the flour byBISCUITS, CAKES, &C. 103 degrees as lightly as possible ; butter a mould, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour, with many folds of paper under, and one on the top. 636. Almond Puff Cakes. Rub five ounces of butter in seven of flour, five ounces of sugar finely powdered, make it in a stiff* paste with a little rose-water; roll it out and strew on a few sweet almonds'1 blanched, chopped small, and steeped in sherbet with^a little sugar, then lay on a cover of paste, and bake them in squares in rather a brisk oven; when nearly enough mark them across, and when done, break them in the marks. 637. Queen Anne's Biscuits. A pound of flour well dried, half a pound of fine sugar powdered and sifted, a pound of currants well washed and picked, and half a pound of butter. Rub the butter in the flour, then mix in the sugar and currants, add ten spoons- ful of cream, the yolks of three eggs, three spoonsful of rose-water, and a little mace pounded fine. When the paste is well worked up, set it in a dish before the fire till it be thoroughly warm, then make it up into cakes, put them on a tin well buttered, prick them full of holes on the top, and bake them in a quick oven. 638. Banbury Cakes. Set a sponge with two table-spoonsful of thick purified yeast, half a pint of warm milk, and a pound of flour; when risen, mix with it half a pound of currants, well cleaned and dried, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a pound of candied orange and lemon shred small, one ounce of spice, such os powdered cinnamon, all-spice, ginger, and nutmeg or mace; mix the whole well together with half a pound of honey : roll out puff* paste quarter of an inch thick, cut it into rounds with a tin cutter about four inches across, lay on each with a spoon a small quantity of the mixture, close it round with the fingers in an oval form, place the joining underneath, press it gently with the164 BISCUITS, CAKES, &C. hand, sift sugar over, bake them on a baking-plate quar- ter of an hour in a moderate oven, and of a light colour. 639. Berkshire Cakes. To half a peck of good flour, take a pound and half of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of an ounce of cinnamon and mace together, and three pounds of currants well cleaned and dried, half a pint of yeast, and a little rose-water ; boil as much milk as will do to knead it, and when nearly cold put in some caraway-seeds, work all well together at the fire; pull it to pieces several times before it is made up, then make it into small cakes, flat- ten, and lay them on tins. Bake them in rather a moderate oven. 6JO. Bath Buns. Hub half a pound of butter in a pound and half of flour, quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, a little salt, and half an ounce of caraway-seeds; beat the yolks of four eggs and three whites, put half a pint of warm milk to four spoonsful of good yeast; when settled, pour it off to the eggs, and mix all into the middle of the flour, till about a third of the flour is mixed in ; cover it with flan- nel, and set it before the fire to rise about half an hour, then mix all up, and cover it till well risen ; make up the buns, and set them before the fire on a baking tin about quarter of an hour; bake them in a quick oven; when done, brush them over with sugar and beaten egg. 641. Bath Cakes. Rub quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, put a spoonful of good yeast, as much warm cream as will make it iuto a light paste, and set it to the fire to rise. When you make it up, add a little salt, sugar, and four ounces of caraway-comfits ; work part of them in, and strew the rest on the top. Shape it into round cakes about the size of a French roll; bake them on sheet tins, and serve them hot.BISCUITS, CAKfcS, &C* 1G 5 642. Biscuits. Take the weight of three eggs in lump sugar sifted, with the weight of two eggs in flour, beat the yolks with a little gitited lemon-peel, the sugar stirred gradually into the eggs all oite way ; beat the whites till the froth will stand ; heat it well, and stir in the flour very gently. Bake them in buttered tins in a quick oven. 643. A aplcs Biscuits. Put quarter of a pint of water, two spoonsful of braiige- flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar into a sauce- pan, and let it boil till the sugar be melted, then pour it Upon four eggs well beaten, stirring the whole as fast as possible while the syrup is poured iii; continue beating it well tiil cold, then stir in half a pound of flour, make clean white paper into mouius the proper size for the biscuits, pour the batter into them, and put them on tins to bake ; sift fine sugar on and set them in a brisk oven, taking great care that they afe not scorched. 644. Savoy Biscuits. Take six eggs, separate the yolks and whites, mix the yolks with six ounces of sugar powdered fine, and the rind of a lemon grated; beat them together quarter of an hour, then whisk the whites in a broad basin till they are a com- plete froth ; mix them with the volks, and add five ounces of flour well dried ; stir the whole weli together, then take some of the batter into a biscuit funnel,* and draw it along clean white paper to the proper size of a biscuit; sift fine sugar on, and bake them in a hot oven; they must he carefully watched, lor they are very soon done. 645. Scotch Biscuits. Take a pound and half of flour, pour the third of a pint of * Take fine brown Holland, make a bag iu the form of a cone, about five inches over at the top ; cut a small hole in the bottom, and tie in a small tapp- ing tin pipe; abont two inches long, and half an inch wide at the bottom, lay the pipe ciose to the paper, and press out the mixture as wanted.166 BISCUIT.*, CAKES, &C. boiling water on nine ounces of butter, let it stand till nearly cold before you mix it with the flour, adding a few caraway-seeds, and powdered sugar to the taste; roll them out, but not very thin ; wet them over with a little rose- water, and sift sugar on them. 646. Sponge Biscuits. Beat well the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four separately, to a strong froth, mix and beat them well with one pound of sifted loaf-sugar ; have ready quarter of a pint of boiling water,, with one good spoonful of rose or orange-flower water in it; as the eggs and sugar are beaten, add the water by degrees, then set it over the fire till scalding hot; take it off and beat it till almost cold, add three quarters of a pound of flour well dried and sifted, the peel of one lemon grated; bake them in small long pans, in a quick oven; sift sugar over before you put them in. An earthen or tin pan, set in a pan of water over the fire, should be used. 647. Lemon-Drop Biscuits. Take a pound of good lump-sugar, pound and sift it very tine, a little essence of lemon, and the whites of two eggs, beaten well with the lemon-essence, then mix with the sugar, and drop it on papers the size of half a crown; let them stand about ten minutes, then bake then; in a very cool oven. 648. Nun’s Biscuits. Blanch and beat half a pound of almonds, with a little rose or orange-flower water, add the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth; then beat the yolks very well, and add to them three quarters of a pound of sifted loaf-sugar; mix the almonds with the eggs and sugar, and add quarter of a pound of flour well dried, the rinds of two lemons grated, and some shred citron; bake them in small tins buttered, with sugar sifted on them ; only half fill them.BISCUITS, CAKF.S, &C. 167 C49. Yarmouth Biscuits. Take six ounces of currants, dean and dry them very well, nib a little flour among them to make them white, half a pound of sugar powdered, twelve otmces of sifted flour, and lialfa pound of fresh butter rubbed in it, beat three eggs, and mix all together in a paste; roll them about the eighth of an inch thick, and cut them in shapes; bake them on two papers on tins, in rather a quick oven. 650. Drop Biscuits. Beat well together one pound of sifted sugar with eight .eggs, for twenty minutes, then add quarter of an ounce of caraway-seeds, and a pound and quarter of flour well dried; lay white paper qn a baking tin, put the mixture in a biscuit funnel, and drop it out on the paper about the size of half a crown ; sift sugar over, and bake them in a hot oven. 651. Frost Biscuits. Take half a pound of potato flour, four ounces of powdered sugar, six ounces of butter beaten to cream, two well- beaten eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, beat cr whisk them well together twenty minutes; bake the biscuits in small tins in a moderate oven. 652. Caraway Cakes. Take two pounds of flour, with half a pound of fresh but- ter rubbed well in, ten eggs, (leaving out five whites), three spoonsful of yeast, a little warm cream, and two ounces of sugar, mix ail well together, and set it by the fire ; w hen risen, put in three quarters of a pounfl of car- away comfits, and the rind of one or two lemons grated ; make them up in small round balls; butter the tins, and bake them in a moderate oven. 653. Caraway Cake. Take three pounds and a half of the best flour, well dried, rub in a pound and a half of fresh butter, till the whole isBISCUIkS, CAKES, &C. 168 quite fine, then put in a pound of sugar powdered and sifted, four well-beaten eggs, four l^rge spoonsful of good purified yeast, half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and six spoonsful of rose-water. Mix all well together and let it stand before the fire half an hour to rise, then put in quarter of a pound of caraway comfits, and bake it an hour and a half or two hours; or divide it in two, gud bake it one hour.) 654. Cakes that xyill keep all the Year. Have in readiness a pound and quarter of flour w ell dried, take a pound of butter unsalted, work it with a pound of white sugar till it creams, and three spoonsful of rose- water ; boil the riqd of an orange till not bitter, and beat it w ith a little of the spgar; mix these together, thpn grate in a little nutmeg, add three yolks qf eggs and two whites, mix them well, and stir in the flour ; make them into small cakes, wet the top with sherbet or water, and strew it with fine sugar; bake them pn buttered papers well flourpd. 655. Plain Currant Cake, Take three pounds of flour, twelve ounces of butter; dis- solve the butter in hot water, put it in the flour with a little yeast, and set it to sponge ; when well risen, make it into a stiff batter, but do not knead it with the hands; one pound and half of currants well cleaned and dried, a little qutmeg, lemon-peel grated, and ten ounces of sugar; beat all together; when risen, bake it. 656. A very good Common Cake. Jlub eight ounces of butter in two pounds of flour well dried, mix in it three spoonsful of well purified yeast, with a pint of milk just warm, let it rise an hour and half, then mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs, beaten sepa- rately, one pound of good moist sugar, a wine-glass of rose-water, the rind of a lemon grated, and a tea-spoonful qf ginger; add either a pound of currants, or some169 JJISCU1TS, CAKES, &C. caraway-seeds, and beat it well. Bake in a brisk oven. 657. Mrs. Broomhead's Plum Cake. Take one pound of butter, one pound and a half of flour, the butter well rubbed in the flour, and six eggs, the yolks beaten and mixed with a little good milk, and about two good spoonsful of yeast, then beat the whites very well, and put them in ; when rising, strew in three quarters of a pound of raw sugar, and a little mace ; two pounds of cur- rants (when cleaned) wet with a little rose-water warmed, and put in with w hat candied lemon and almonds you like; hake tt three hours in a moderate oven. 658. Citron Cake. Work a pound of butter to cream, mix with it a pound of flnely powdered sugar, a pound of flour well dried and sifted, put lightly in, quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and chopped tine, a little mace, three or four ounces of citron, and eight eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately. Half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in a table-spoonful of rose-water, will add to its lightness. 659. Cinnamon Cake. Put six eggs and three table-spoonsful of rose-water into a broad basin, whisk them well together, add a spoon- ful of sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of pounded cinna- mon, and flour to make it into a good paste; roll it out, cut the cakes in any shape you like, and bake them on white paper. Keep them in a dry place. 660. Cracknels. Mix half a pound of flour, and half a pound of sugar; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonsful of cream, then with four eggs beaten and strained, make it into a paste, add caraway seeds; roll it out as thin as paper, cut the cakes170 BISCUITS, cakks, kc. with a tin cutter, wash them with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. 661. Cakes that will keep. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraway-seeds, with four eggs, wnd a few spoons- ful of water to make a stiff paste; roll it thin, cut the cakes in any shape, and bake them on floured tins: while baking, boil half a pound of sugar in a gill of water to a thin syrup, while both are hot, dip each cake into it, put them into the oven on tins, to dry for a short time, and when the oven is cool, put them in again, and let them remain in four or five hours. 662. Diet Bread. Beat the yolks of twelve eggs, then add by degrees a pound of loaf-sugar sifted very fine, the grated rind and juice.of a lemon, eight ounces of flour well dried, and lastly the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth ; beat it an hour, and bake it an hour in a moderately brisk oven. This is a very excellent cake. 663. Shrewsbury Cakes. Take one pound of flour, rub in half a pound of butter* half a pound of sugar, and a few caraway-seeds, mix them in a stiff paste with a little rose-water; roll them out, and cut them what size you please. 664. Shrewsbury Cakes. To half a pound of flour take six ounces of loaf-sugar powdered, and quarter of a pound of butter, mix all to- gether with one egg well-beaten ; roll it thin, and cut it in forms; dust a little sugar over before you set them iu the oven. 665. Shrewsbury Cakes. Beat six ounces of butter to cream, then add twelve onnee* of flogr dried, eight ounces of powdered sugar, a few cara-171 BISCUITS, CAKES, &C. Way-seeds, and one egg well-beaten; mix these well to- gether; roll it thin, cut it out in cakes, and bake them ozx tins in a moderate oven. They may be made up into balls, and just flattened on the tins with the hand. 666. Ginger Cakes for Cold Weather* Beat up three eggs in half a pint of cream, put them over the fire, and stir them till warm, then add a pound of but- ter, half a pound of powdered loaf sugar, and one ounce of prepared ginger, carefully stir them together over a moderate fire, to melt the butter, then pour it into the middle of two pounds of flour, and make it into a good paste, roll it out rather thin without any flour, and cut th« cakes with a tin cutter. They are generally baked on three papers, laid on tins in a hot oven. 667. Seed Cake. Yakc one pound and quarter of flour, three quarters of a pound of loif-sugar pounded, the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of five beaten to a froth, one pound of butter beaten to cream ; mix these well together, add nearly aa ounce of caraway-seed3 bruised ; butter the pan, and sift sugar on the top. 668. A light Seed Cake without Butter. Take the yolks of six eggs and three whites, beat them well half an hour, then add four ounces of powdered loaf- augar, mix it with the eggs; add eight ounces of flour and a few caraway-seeds; stir the whole well together, aod put in a tin or basin lined with writing paper buttered Half an hour will bake it, if the oven be quick. A nicer plaiu cake cannot be made, if care be taken in the baking. 669. A Plain Cake. Take rice and wheat flour of each six ounces, nine welK beaten eggs, half a pound of powdered sugar, and half anBISCUIiS, CAKES, &C. 17*2 ounce of caraway-seeds; having beaten this one hour, bake it the same time in a quick oven. This is a very light cake, and is very suitable for delicate stomachs. 670 Eccles Cakes. To a pound of flour take three quarters of a pound of but- ter with the salt worked out of it; mix the flour to a paste with waler that has a small portion of yeast in it, roll it out thin, and lay the butter on in small pieces the same as for puff paste, dredge it, fold it up and roll it out twice or three times, then fold it up and cover it with a cloth or bowl two or three hours in a cool place, then cutitin pieces about the size of an egg, make them round, and with the thumb make a hole in the middle of each, working it round till it will admit of a dessert-spoonful of currants and some sugar, moistened with as little water as possible, and a few drops of esseuce of lemon ; close the paste very well, and lay them on the board the closed side downward, roll them out, and bake them on tins iu a quick oven. If preferred, the sngar may be boiled to syrup with as little water as possible, and then mixed with the currants, which should always be very well cleaned. 671. Plum Cake. Take two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of currants, a little cream, lemon- peel, mace, and cinnamon ; first rub the butter in the flour, then put in the cream, a little yeast, and five eggs, and set it to rise: when risen enough, add the other in- gredients ; bake in a tin lined with paper well buttered. 672. Plum Cake. Three pounds of flour well dried, half a pound of powdered sugar, nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon finely powdered, half an ounce all together, ten yolks of eggs and five whites well beaten, and quarter of a pint of good yeast; melt a pound of butter in a pint of cream, add to it the eggs and yeast, mix it with the flour, and let it stand to rise an hourBISCUITS, CAKES, &C. 173 before the fire; then add three pounds of currants well cleaned and dried, and half a pound of raisins stoned and shred small ; candied orange, lemon, or citron, and sweet almonds may be added, if approved. Butter a tin, and bake it two hoars. 673. Small Plumb Cakes. Take a pound of flour, rub into it half a pound of butter, the name of powdered sugar, and a little beaten mace; beat four eggs very well (leaving out two whites) with three spoons- ful of yeast, put to it quarter of a pint of warm cream, strain them into your flour, and make it up light, set it before the fire to rise; just before you put it in the oven put in three quarters of a pound of currants. Bake it in small tins in a quick oven. 674. Wedding Cake. Beat two pounds of butter to cream with the hand, then put in one pound of fine sugar sifted, half a pound of almonds blanched and beaten a little with orange-flower water, two pounds of flour well dried, half an ounce of beaten mace and cinnamon, mix these well together; then beat the yolks and whites of sixteen eggs separately, put to them a glass of rose-water; put the flour and eggs to the butter and sugar by degrees, and beat it with the hand an hour; then put in two pounds of currants cleaned and cried, half a pound of citron, and half a pentad of candied lemon. Butter a tin and bake it three hou*s. An iceing should be put on this cake after it is baked, as follows: Almond Iceing Jar the Bride Cake.—Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong froth, beat a pound of almonds w;th an ounce of bitter ones very fine, with a little rose- water, mix a pound of powdered sugar very lightly with the whiles of eggs and almonds; have it ready when your cake is enough ; lav it on thick and even, then put it in the oven to brown. It will then be ready for the sugar iceing. Sugar Iceing for a Cake.— Beat two pounds of double refined sugar with two ounees of starch, or potato flour; sift P U174 BISCUITS, CAKES, &C. it through a gauze sieve, then beat, (he whites of five eggs with a knife half an hour, beat in the sugar by degrees, or the froth will fall ; when all the sngar is in, add a few drops of essence of lemon, beat it half an hour longer, then lay it on the almond iceing, and spread it quite smooth and eveu with a knife; if it be put on as soon as the cake comes out of the oven, it will be hard by the time the cake is cold. Another Iceing for a Cake.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with them by de- grees a pound of fine sugar powdered and sifted, a tea- spoonful of powdered gum-arabic, three spoonsful of orange-flower water, or lemon-juice; beat these well together, and immediately lay it v,n thick. The cake must be set into a cool oven, that the iceing may be hardened. 675. A Common Plum Cake. Three pounds and a half of flour, half a pound of sugar, some grated nutmeg or pounded mace, eight eggs well beaten, a wine-glass of rose-water or rose-syrup, half a pint of yeast, a pound of butter melted in a pint and a half of milk, and put just warm to the other ingredients; let it rise an hour before the fire, then mix it well together ; add two pounds of currants, butter a tin and bake it. Q U 676. Potato-four Cake. To one pound of this powder put one pound of eggs, Leat three quarters of a pound of butter with a wooden spoon till it becomes cream; beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, when the latter are well frothed, add a little of the flour, then put it to the butter, then the re- mainder of the flour and yolks; lastly, ten ounces of powdered sugar, with two spoonsful of rose or orange- flower water, and the grated rind of two lemons; put it in a hoop lined with paper and buttered, bake it an hour and a half in a quick oven, or bake it in small tins.BISCUITS, CAKP.S, &C. 175 677. Pound Cake. B at a pound of butter to a fine thick cream, add ten yolks oi e<>'gs and five whites beaten to a froth ; when well mixed, put in a pound of sugar sifted fine, a pound of flour; a little mace and rose-water; beat all together for an hour, then put in a pound of currants well cleaned and dried, or an ounce of caraway-seeds ; butter some paper well, put it in a tin, and bake an hour in a quick oven. 678. American Potash Cakes. Rub quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, stir quarter of a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of milk till dissolved; make a solution of about half a tea-cupful of salt of tartar, crystal of soda, or any purified potash, iii half a tea-cupful of cold water, mix all together, and work it up into a paste of a good consistence, roll it out, and form it into cakes or biscuits, and bake them on tins. The lightness of these cakes depends much on the brisk- ness of the oven. 679. Jumbal Is. Weigh a pound and quarter of flour, take out as much as will do to roll the cakes in, rub in half a pound of butter as for paste, add three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, leaving out a little to dust on the cakes before thev are put in the oven, add a little grated lemon-peel, or essence of lemon ; mix it up with two beaten eggs and a little cream; rollout the paste, cut it in narrow shreds, and form it into rings or knots, or any other form; bake moderately quick. 680. Lemon Cake. Half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, half a pound of flour, the grated rind of one lemon, two ounces of butter, two well-beaten eggs ; mix all well together, and roll out thin, lay it on a tin, and when baked cut it in small squares. 681. King Cakes. Take one pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of but-IJ9CUITS. LAKES, kC- 176 ter, half a pound of sugar, and half a pound of currants. First rub the butter in ihe flour, then add the sugar and currants, a little mace, and four eggs well beaten ; make them up in small round cakes, and butter the papers you bake them on; or, bake them in small tins. 6S2. Queen Cakes. Six ounces of butter beaten to cream, six ounces of sugar powdered fine, six ounces of flour, the yolks of four eggs and two whites, half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little orange-flower water, and a few cur- rants ; beat them together for half an hour, then butter imali tins, fill tharn half full* aud bake them; They are ftocn baked. 6S3. Ratafia Cakes, Take half a pound of sweet almonds and half a pound of bitter ones, blanch and beat them fine with rose or plain water, to prevent them from oiling, mix a pound of fine #»fted sugar with the almonds, have ready well beaten the whites of four eggs, mix them lightly with the almonds and sugar, put it on a moderate fire in a preserving-pan, stirring quickly one way till pretty hot; when a little cool, roll it in small rolls and cut it in thin cakes, dip your bauds iu flour and shake them on it, tap them lightly with your finger, put them on sugar papers, sift fine sugar over and immediately set them in a moderate o\ en. They may also be made the same as the French maca- roons, only half the almonds bitter and the other half sweet, and about half the size of macaroons. 684. Rice Cake. Put quarter of a pound of rice, well washed, intr a sauce- pan, with half a pint of water; when it begins to swell, add about half a pint of new milk; let it remain on the fire till the rice is well mixed with the milk and w^ter, and is beeoroe quite tender; take it off and stir in half a poun«i of butter j kt it stand till cold, then add a rounu and quarterBISCUITS, CUKES, &C, 177 of flour, half a pound of sturar, four eggs well beaten, and a little salt; mould the whole well together, make it up into a cake, or loaf, glaze it over with the yolk of egg, and bake it an hour in a tin well buttered. 685. Rice Cake. Mix half a potind of fine rice flour, and four ounces ol wheat flonr, with half a pound of finely powdered sugar; beat very well and strain eight eggs; flavour with a little orange-flower water and essence of lemon, or the rind ot a lemon finely grated; beat the whole together twenty minutes, and bake in a quick oven. 686. French Rice Cake. Wash and pick quite clean four ounces of the best rice, steep it an hour in boiling water, with a blade or two ot mace and a dessert-spoonful of salt, setting the pan in a warm place ; then drain the water very well from it, and dry it in the pan over the fire, shaking it, or stirring it up frequently with a fork ; ponr on it a quart of boiled cream, in which the yellow' rind of lemon has been infused ; let it remain till the rice has absorbed all the cream; add a lump of butter, fine sugar, and essence of lemon to the taste; when cool add the yolks and whites of eight eggs beaten separately ; then pour three ounces of butter melted into the mould, turning it round till the cooling butter adheres to all sides of it; cover the mould with fine bread crumbs, and pour in the mixture; bake it an hour in a moderate oven. Turn it out of the mould w hile warm. 687. Savoy Cake. Take the weight of four eggs in fine sugar powdered and sifted, the weight of seven in flour well dried, mix the yolks of the eggs .with the sugar you had weighed, a little grated lemon-peel and orange-flower water, beat them well toge- ther half an hour, then add the whites w hipped to a froth, mix in the flour by degrees, beating it all the time ; put it in a tin well buttered, and bake it an hour. This is a17# BISCUITS, CAKES, IcC. very delicate light cake, and may be baked in a melon mould or any other shape. 688. Wafer Cakes. To a pound and half of flour, take six ounces of fine powdered sugar, and half an ounce of caraway-seeds, mix all ap together with half a pint of good cream ; roll out the paste ntry thin, cut the cakes with a tin cutter ; prick them well, and bake on tin3 in a moderate oven. 689. Royal Cakes< Put into a saucepan, quarter of a pint of water, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, two ounces of fine sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, and a little salt, set it on the fire; when it has foiled about half a minute, stir in it by degrees four spoousful of flour, constantly stirring it till it becomes a smooth paste, pretty stiff, and adheres to the pan, then tike it off the fire, and add three eggs well beaten, put them in by degrees, stirring the paste all the time that it may not become lumpy; add a little orange-flower water and a few almonds pounded fine, bake them in small cakes on sheets of tin well buttered; half an hour will tike them in a moderate oven. 690. Ratafia Drops. Blanch and beat four ounces of bitter and two ounces of *weet almonds with a Lttle rose-water, a pound of sifted sugar, the whites of two eggs well beaten, and a tablc- •poonfui of flour ; drop them into balls about the size of a nutmeg, and bake them on wafer paper. 691. Sponge Cake. Grate the rind of a lemon to the yolks of seven eggs, beat them and fwe whites separately ; boil a pound of loaf- sugar in quarter of a pint of water, pour it boiling hot ■pun the eggs and lemon-peel, whisk it immediately very well for twenty minutes, then stir in three quarters of a pownd of flour weil dried and sifted ; put it immediately in170 BISCUITS, CAKRi, &X. mould? and bake it in a moderately hot oven. If baked in two, they will take near an hour. Be careful always to have your mould quite dry ; rub it all over the inside with clarified butter, then dust pound- ed sugar over it; tie a slip of white paper loundthe mould, fill it with the mixture about three parts full; when done, let the cake stand a while before it is turned out. 692. Turk's Cake. Take eight eggs, and the weight of them in fine sugar sifted, and the weight of six in flour; beat the whites to a snow, then beat the yolks, mix these with the sugar, and whisk it very well, grate the rind of a lemon to the flour, beat all well together; bake it an hour and a half, in a mould called a Turk’s cap. 693. The Vicarage Cake. A pound and half of flour, half a pound of moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg and ginger, two eggs well beaten, a table-spoonful of yeast, and the same of orange-flower or rose-water; mix it to a light paste with quarter of a pound of butter melted in half a pint of milk ; let it stand before the fire half an hour to rise, then add three quarters of a pound of currants, and bake it in a tin well buttered in a brisk oven. 694. Tunbridge Cakes. A pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter rubbed fine inio it, five ounces of fine sugar powdered, two eggs, and a few caraway-seeds; mix them to a paste with milk; roll it out very thin, and cut them into cakes with a tin cutter; prick and lay them on sheets of tin butterec), and bake them. 695. Wiltshire Cakes. Take two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and & pound of butter, wash the butter in orange-flower or row- water, dry the flour, and rub the buher in as for puffBISCUITS, CAKES, &C. j<80 paste ; beat three eggs well in three spoonsful of cream, a little mace, and salt; mix these well together, and make them into small flat cakes, rub them over with the white of an egg, and grate sugar upon them ; quarter of an hour will bake them in a moderate oven. 696. English Macaroons. Beat a pound of sweet almonds fine in a mortar with a wine-glass of water; mix a pound of fine powdered sugar with the almonds, and as many whites of eggs beaten to a froth as will make it of a proper consistency ; Jay sheets of clean white paper on tins, and then sheets of wafer paper ; drop the paste upon it, sift fine sugar over them, and bake them carefully in a quick oven. Let them stand till cold, then cut the wafer paper round, leaving it at the bottom of each macaroon. 697. French Macaroons. Take half a pound of sweet almonds, beat them very fine in a mortar, moistening them with the whites of eggis beaten to a froth, taking care they do notoil; then take one pound and half of sugar finely pow dered, and mix it well w ith the almonds; add whites of eggs beaten to a froth til! the whole is of a consistency that it will easdy drop Ironi the spoon : lay sheets of paper on tins, then wafer paper, and drop the paste upon it so as not to ruu together. Bake them in a brisk oven, but do not let them burn: w hen cold, take oft' the paper. 698. Portuguese Macaroons. Take five ounces of flour of potatoes, ten whites of eggs, one pound of sweet almonds, and a pound and quarter of moist sugar ; blanch the almonds and bruise them in a mortar; then beat the whites of eggs till they froth ; mix them with the almonds, sugar and flour; Beat the whole well together, and put it into moulds like Savoy biscuits, or in paper cases like common biscuits, and bake them in the same manner.BISCUITS, CAKES, &C. 131 699. Italian Macaroons. Take a pound of Valencia almonds blanched, pound them quite fine with 1 be whites of four eggs, add two pounds and a half of finely sifted sugar, and rub them well together, put in by degrees ten or eleven more whites, working them well as you put them in; to try their lightness, it is best to bake one or two, and if heavy, add one or two more well-beaten whites; put the mixture into a biscuit funnel, and lay them on wafer paper, about the size of a small walnut for each macaroon; have ready about two ounces blanched and cut info slips, put three or four pieces on each, iav the n on three or four folds of paper on tins, or on baking wires, and bake in a moderate oven. Almonds will be more easily pounded, if blanched and dried a few days previous to their being used. 700. Gingerbread. Take one pound of flour, six ounces of butter melted in half a pound of treacle, one ounce of ginger, and one egg, make it into a stiff paste, and bake it in squares, marked in slips about an inch broad, in a moderate oyen. 701. Another Way. Take three pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, the same quantity of butter, rubbed in very fine, one ounce of ginger, and some nutmeg, then take a pound of treacle and quarter of a pint of cream, warmed together; mix it into a sliff paste and roll it in thin cakes or nuts ; bake them in a slow oven on tins. If too soft to roll out, set the paste in a cool place two or three hours. 702. A good Sort ivithont Butter. Mix two pounds of treacle, candied ginger, orange, and lemor-, quart r of a pound of each, all sliced very thin, half an ounce of caraway seeds, half an ounce of * prepared ginger, and as much flour as will make a soft paste; lay it * in making gin e breed, &e. where powdtred ginger is to be used, the prepared ginger will be toumJ greatly preferab e to that commonly used. Q182 BISCUITS, CAKES, &C. cakes or balls on tin plates, and bake in a quick oven. Keep it in an earthen vessel with a cover, or a tin box, in a dry place, and it will keep some months. 703. Good Plain Gingerbread. Mix half a pound of butter with three pounds of flour, eight ounces of brown sugar, and an ounce of prepared ginger, make it into a paste with a pound and half of molasses warm. Form it in balls about the size of a walnut, and bake in a moderate oven. 704. Another Way. Mix half a pound of treacle, w ith half a pound of butter melted in it, into two pounds of flour, one ounce of ginger, and half an ounce of caraway seeds ; work it well, and let it stand an hour or more, then roll it into cakes, and bake them ou buttered tins. An egg well-beaten, and a little grated lemon-peel may be added. 705. Orange Gingerbread. Put a pound and half of treacle into a saucepan, with half a pound of sugar, and half a pound of butter ; set it over the fire till the butter is melted, stirring it several times well together; then pour it into an earthen dish, and when cold, put to it an ounce of ginger finely powdered, quarter of a pound of candied orange cut small, and one pound of flour, then roll it out, and cut it into cakes with a tin cutter, or cut it in squares. Bake them on tin plates buttered. 706. Excellent Gingerbread. Beat half a pound of butter to cream, pnt to it three quar- ters of a pound of flour, six ounces of sugar, two well- beaten errirs, one pound of warm t’earle, two ounces of hi. ■.:!!, orar-« ■ • me h ;• t*»«.; <• 1, ?T •• • • ' ef •» "Mi i.h-f i:biscuits, cakes, &c. 183 about half an inch thick in a tin warmed and well buttered ; bake in a moderately brisk oven. When baked, let it stand about eight or ten minutes, then cut it in squares, and lay it on a board till quite cold. Keep it in a tin box, with writing paper between each layer. , 707. Traveller’s Gingerbread. Rub half a pound of butter in a pound and a half of flour, add a pound ot sugar, some grated lemon-peel, ginger to the taste, two eggs well beaten, and half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little rose-water; mix all together in a stiff paste, roll it in balls, and bake in rather a moderate oven. 708. Transparent or Snap Gingerbread. Melt half a pound of butter, and mix it well with a pound of treacle and a pound of sugar, then put in ten ounces of flour, and quarter of an ounce of prepared ginger, a wine- glass of rose-water, and some grated lemon-peel; beat it a few minutes, and drop it on hot tins buttered ; bake it in a moderately quick oven. 709. Transparent or Snap Gingerbread. To three quarters of a pound of flour take one pound of sugar, melt quarter of a pound of butter in half a pound of treacle, and a glass of rose-water, with half a tea-spoon- ful of carbonate of soda dissolved in it, add mace and ginger, and a little grated lemon-peel, mix all well toge- ther, adding an egg well beaten ; let it stand two or three hours in a cool place, then drop it on warm tins well but- tered, and bake in rather a quick oven, and, while warm, after it has stood a short time, roll up the snaps lightly, the upper side outwards. As a crisp state adds much to the quality of this gingerbread, it will be found to answer best to make only a small quantity at once; and the paste keeps well in ajar covered close. 710. Parkin. Rub half a pound of butter into three pounds of oatmeal.BISCUITS, CAKES, &C. 184 add an ounce of ginger, and as much stiff tread- as will make it into a stiff paste, roll it out in cakes about half an inch thick, lay them on buttered tins, and bake them in a moderate oven. Observations on making and baking Cakes. Currants should be very nicely washed, drained in a sieve, dried in a cloth, and set before the fire, then spread them on a plate that you may more easily perceive i he grit and stalks, which should be carefully picked out. If damp they will make cakes or puddings heavy. A dust of dry flour shaken well amongst them is of use. Eggs should be very long beaten, yolks and whites separate, and always strained through a tin strainer. A large tin basin is best for beating eggs in for cakes, as the yolks can in this be heated a little over the fire while the whisking is going on, which greatly assists the process. It is a good test in beating eggs, when they are so thick as to carry the drop from the w hisk. Sugar should be rolled to powder on a clean board, grated with a fine grater, or pounded in a mortar, and then sifted through a fine sieve. Spices should be pounded fine, and kept in bottles closely corked. Almonds also, when blanched and chopped very fine, will keep many weeks in a bottle well corked. Lemon-peel should be first grated, it is much better than chopping it; when grated and sprinkled with salt, it will keep good several months closely corked in a bottle. After all the articles are mixed together for cakes, they should be well and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much on their being well incorporated. Plum Cakes made with yeast require less butter and eggs, and eat equally light and rich ; the butter shouldPRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, kc. 185 always be mixed in the flour before it be set to rise, either by beintr rubbed in, or melted in the milk. The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially those that are large ; if not quick the batter will not rise, and to prevent the cakes being scorched, a sheet or two of white paper may be laid over them. To know when a cake is soaked, take a broad knife that is very bright, plunge it into the centre, and draw it out instantly ; if the batter adheres to it at all, put it in the even again immediately. Yeast, when used for cakes or biscuits of any kind, should always be well purified, by stirring it in a large jar with plenty of cold spring water, and letting it stand a day or two covered close before it be wanted, then pour the water off and take out the yeast carefully, leaving the brown sediment at the bottom. It will keep good a week or ten days in the hottest weather, in a cool cellar, by pouring off the water every day and adding more, and covering it to keep it fresh. PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, SiC. 711. To preserve Apricots.} Gather the fruit quite dry before it be too ripe, weigh and split them in halves, lay them on dishes with the ht llow part uppermost, hate ready their weight of lump-sugar finely powdered, strew it over and let them stand twelve hours, blanch the kernels, and put them into a preserving pan with the fruit and sugar, let them simmer very gently tiil the fruit looks clear, taking off the scum; then take Q 2186 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. out the fruit carefully, ami boil the syrup a little longer till it is clear; pour it upon the fruit with the kernels. When cold, cover them with tissue paper dipped in olive oil. 712. Apricots whole. Pare the fruit, before it is too ripe, as thin as possible, and take out the stones with a common wooden skewer, taking care not to divide the fruit, strew on an equal weight of powdered sugar; let them stand twelve lours, then set them on a moderate fire in a preserving pan, with an ounce of white ginger (after scraping off' the ouL'ide) to every five pounds of fruit; simmer very gently, and when about half done, take the pan off' the fire, and cover it close till nearly cold, then put it on the fire again, and let them boil very gently tiii clear; lake nut the fruit carefully into small jars, laying a bit of stick crosswise to prevent the fruit from rising; boil the syrup a little longer, and when clear, pour it upon the apricots. 713. To preserve Green Apricots. Gather the apricots just before they begin to ripen, lay vine nr apricot leaves at tlie bottom of the pa", and the fruit in layers, with leaves between, and when all the fruit is in, put plenty of leaves on the top; fill the pan with spring water, and cover it close, set the pan at a distance from the fire, where they can he graduallv heated, and remain in a moderate heat for seveial hours til) they be- come rather soft, but not cracked; take out the fruit very carefully and drain it; make a thin syrup with some of the water, allowing a pound of sugar to a pint and a half of water ; when cold, pour it on the fruit in a preserving pan, 6et it on a very slow fire, or on a stove, till the apricots green, but on ho account to boil or crack; remove them very carefully into an earthen pan with the syrup for three days, then pour off as much as will be requisite, adding more sugar to make a good syrup, and a little white gin- ger sliced; boil it till clear, and when cold, pour it on thePRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 187 fruit after being well drained from the thin, syrup, which will serve to sweeten pies Cover them when cold with tissue paper. If,the fruit is not so green as it ought to be a small piece of alurn boiled in the syrnp will improve the color. 714. To preserve ripe Currants. To a quart of red currants, when picked, put half a pound of moist sugar, let them simmer gently twenty minutes; wh‘ii cold, put them into wide-necked bottles, and tie two bladders on each separately. Keep them in a cool dry place. 715. Another Way. To one pound of currants cut from the stalks, take six ounces of bruised loaf-sugar, sprinkle it gently amongst them and put them in bottles, cork them lightly, and set them in a pan of cold water on a slow fire, till the water is scalding, then take them off the fire, and let them re- main in the water till cold, then cork them tight, and rosin or tie down the corks. They should be kept in a cool place, and free from damp. 716. To preserve Gooseberries. Gather your gooseberries dry, just before they turn red, allow a pound of sugar to a quart of fruit, boil them nearly an hour, stirring them frequently, then add the sugar, and boil them three q.iarters of an hour longer, put them in jars, and when quite cold, cover them with tissue paper, cut very little larger than the top of the jar; another paper may be tied over if preferred, but it is not necessary. Ripe gooseberries are preserved in the same way, but require rather less boiling. 717. To preserve Green Gooseberries. At the time gooseberries are ready for bottling, pick outlb 8 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. the largest for preserving, to every two pounds of fruit take a pound and half of loaf-sugar bruised, put the fruit and sugar in an earthen vessel, cover it close, and set it in a moderate oven till the syrup will separate from the fruit; when cold, pour the syrup from the fruit, boil it and pour it hot upon the fruit; the next day boil all to- gently about twenty minutes, then take out the fruit, and boil the syrup quarter of an hour longer, then pour it upon ♦he fruit. If there be any gooseberries hard or discolour- ed amongst them, they should be picked out before the •yrup is cold. 718. To keep Damsons for Winter Pies. Put them in small stone jars, or wide-mouthed bottles; set them up to the necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when per- fectly cold, fill up with spring water. 719. Strawberries. To each pound of strawberries take an equal weight <>f loaf-sugar, dissolve it in currant-juice while cold, then set it on the fire, and when it boils, let the strawberries have a scald in it, but not boil, then take them out with a large slice, or spoon with holes in it, boil the sjrup and pour it on them hot; boil it several times, till you think they will keep. The scarlet strawberries are the b^st. 720. Raspberry Jam. Gather your raspberries when quite ripe and dry, mash them fine, and strew over them their weight of sugar, and to every three pounds of fruit, allow a pint of the juice of white or red currants; boil them three quarters of an hour over a slow fire, skim them well; and put them into pots or glasses, put papers over as before, and keep them dry. Strew on the sugar as soon as you can after the fruit is gathered; and in order to preserve its fine flavor, do not kt U stand long before you boil it. Or, boil the rasp-189 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, kc. berries with the currant-juice half an hour before the sugai is added, and half an hour afterwards. For white raspberries use white currant juice. Another Way—Is to weigh an equal quantity of fruit and powdered sugar, boil the frnit on a slow fire an hour, then add the sugar, and boil it three quarters of an hour more. 721. Gooseberry Jam. Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, when ripe, and gathered diy, into a preserving-pan, with a pint of raspberry-juice, strained as for jelly, boil rather quick, and mix them with a wooden spoon; when they have boiled about an hour, put to them six pounds of white Lisbon sugar, and simmer them slowly to a jam. It re- quires long boiling, or it will not keep; it is excellent for tarts or pulls. Look at it in two or three days, and if the syritp and fruit separate, it must be boiled longer. Cover with tissue paper dipped in olive oil. 722. To prepare Fruit for Children, a far more wholesome Way than in Pies and Puddings. Put apples sliced, or plnms, currants, gooseberries, &c, into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much sugar .as necessary among them; set the jar on a hot stove, or in a saucepan of water, [and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread, or rice, may be eaten with the fruit, the rice being plain boiled. 723. Currant Jam. Put any quantity of currants into a preserving-pan, with two pounds of sugar to every three pounds of currants, and a little raspberry-juice to dissolve the sugar; put in your currants, and boil them till, they are very clear. Put them into jars, and when cold, strew sugar over, cover with tissye paper, and keep them in a dry place.PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &LC. 190 724. Black Currant Jam. Gather your currants when quite dry, pick them from the stalks, and bruise them in a bowl; to every two pounds of fruit, add a pound and half of loaf-sugar finely beaten, boil them an hour stirring them all the time, then put them into pots. It is better to let the fruit boil a little before the sugar is added. 725. To preserve Fruit fo^ Tarts or Desserts. Che.ries, apricots, plums of all sorts, and Siberian crabs, gathei wheu nearly ripe, lay them in small jars that will hold a pound, strew over them six ounces of loaf sugar pounded, cover with two bladders separately tied down, then set the jars in a large pan of water up to the neck, and simmer them very gently three quarters of an h* ur. Currants and gooseberries may be done in the same way. Apricots should be pared very thin, and the stones thrust out with a skewer. Put the jars in the water when cold. Fruit for desserts should be preserved with the stalks on. Let them remain in the water till cold, and keep them free from damp. 726. To preserve Wine-sours. Clean your wine-sours very well with a cloth, run them down the seam, and prick them well with a needle; allow to every pound of fruit three quarters of a pound of loaf- sugar powdered, put a layer of plums and a layer of sugar till the jar be full; tie white paper over, and set them in a pan of water on the firi for half an hour ; when cold, take the fruit out singly and boil the syrup, skim it, and pour it hot upon the fruit, repeat it four or five times; put them into small pots, grate sugar over, and cover them with tissue paper, then tie bladders or leather on to keep out the air, or they will lose their color, and become purple. 727. To preserve Siberian Crabs. T-ke the crabs when quite ripe, prick them and put them in191 PRESERVED PRUfT, JELLIES, &C. a jug, pour boiling water over them, and tie them up close till next day, pick out any that may be shrivelled, and to a pint ol the water they were scalded with, put half a pound of lump-sugar; boil and skim it, then pour it upon the crahs; let them stand two or three days, then take them from the syrup, and add more sugar, boil it, and when cold, put in the crabs, and set them on a moderate fire to boil; they will require boiling two or three times till they look clear, and the syrup becomes thick. 728. To preserve Ripe Fruit without Sugar. The gooseberries, currants, cherries, raspberries, &c. should not be too ripe; being ready picked, fill bottles with the fruit till they will hold no more, allowing room for the cork ; and in filling, shake the bottles frequently. When filled, cork each bottle lightly, and then proceed to scald the fruit. This operation may be performed over a slow fire, either in a copper, or large kettle, fiist putting a cloth at the bottom to prevent the beat from cracking the bottles. The copper must be filled with cold water so as nearly to cover the bottles, which must be put into the water rather slanting till they reach the bottom, in order to expel the air that might lodge in the cavity at the bot- tom of them. The bottles should not touch the bottom or sides of the copper, and the heat of the fire should be such as gradually to raise the water in the copper to the temperature of 160 or 170 degrees by a brewing ther- mometer, in the course of about three quarters of an hour. For want of an instrument of this kind, the proper tem- perature may be determined by the finger, to which it will feel very hot, but will not scald. If the water should become too hot, a little cold water must be added to it, and when it has acquired the proper degree of heat, it must he kept at it as steadily as possible for about an hour, hut • '■! !(inc( r ns a g“rater In r,{. or !« :■:/• r : - : . » > ; k ;. * t. . i ■.. ,, .192 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. will reach, with boiling water, kept in readiness for the purpose, and which may be very conveniently poured into them from a tea-kettle, cork them immediately, pressing the corks down gradually, but make them very tight. In driving the corks the bottles must not be shaken, as that might cause the hot water to break them. When the bottles are corked, lay them on their side, which will cause the corks to swell, and prevent the air from escaping. When cold they may be removed to a cool, dry place, always observing to let them lie on their side, until required for use. During the first month or two, it is necessary to turn the bottles a little round, once or twice a week, to prevent the fermentation that will arise in some fruit from forming into a crust; the turning of the bottles keeps the fruit moist with water, and no mould will ever take place. After the first two months, it will be quite sufficient to turn the bottles a little round once or twice a month. The liquor which is poured from the fruit, makes a very agreeable syrup, when boiled up with sugar. 729. Cucumbers. Take large cucumbers, the greenest possible, and most free from seeds, put them into a broad jar or stew-pot, with a cabbage-leaf over them, cover and set them in a warm place till they turn yellow, then boil the salt and water and pour on them, repeating it till they are green ; then wash and set them over a slow fire in clean water, with a bit of alum pounded fine, and a cabbage-leaf under and over, till they just boil; theu take them off and 1 remain till cold ; cut them in two, and take out the seeds and soft pulp carefully, put them in cold spring water, and let them stand two days, changing the water each day, to take out the sait; then wipe them quite dry, and put them into syrup made as follows:—To every pound of sugar allow a pint of water, and to six pounds of sugar twoounces of the best white ginger, scraping off the outside, and to each pound of fruit one lemon, the rind pared very thin, and cut in shreds like straws, and the juice squeezed andRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 193 strained into the syrup when boiling. The syrup must be boiled two or three times a week for a month, and must be cold before it is poured on the fruit, adding more sugar if requisite. Melons, before they are too ripe, are preserved in the same manner, allowing an ounce of roche alum, finely powdered, to twelve melons. Vine-leaves are preferable to cabbage-leaves, when they can be obtained. 730. Damsons. Wipe and prick the damsons, and put them into a deep stew-pot, adding one pound of sugar to three quarts of fruit; set them in a cool oven till they appear warm through, and be careful they do not burst; when you take them out of the oven drain the syrup carefully from them, and set it on the fire with another pound of sugar; let it boil ten or fifteen minutes, then pour it hot upon the dam- sons ; repeat the boiling of the syrup if necessary once or twice, till you think they will keep well. Cover them with double tissue paper dipped in olive-oil, pouring a tea- spoonful of oil on the paper, then tie bladders over. Plums, cherries, cucumbers, or any kind of fruit pre- served in syrup, may be covered in the same way. 731. To preserve Damsons. Gather the damsons quite dry, and wipe them with a cloth, taking out those that are bruised; put them in jars that will hold about three gills, and to three gills of fruit put quarter of a pound of good moist sugar; tie two blad- ders on separately, then set them in a pan of cold water oa the fire, and simmer them very gently about an hour, let them stand in the water till cold. The bladders should be washed in warm water and wiped dry, allowing plenty of room in tying them on the jars, as they are apt to burst. 732. Another Way. W ipe the damsons, and take a pound of sugar to thr^e pints of fruit, put them in a large jar, and set it in a pan194 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, ScC. of water on the fire, or in a very cool oven, till the syrop will separate from the fruit; when cold, take out the fruit, boil the syrup and pour it hot upon it; repeat it several times, and the last time, simmer the fruit in the syrup quarter of an hour, then put it in jars, and boil the syrup quarter of an hour longer before you pour it on the fruit. When cold, paper them as in No. V30. 733. To preserve Cherries. Stone some of the finest Kentish cherries in the following manner; cut a quill as for a tooth-pick, only make the end round, press it down close to the top of the cherry ; bolding the stalk at the same time and pulling it gently, the stone will come out without tearing the cherry to pieces, then put the cherries in a jar with an equal weight of powdered sugar, a layer of fruit and a layer of sugar alternately ; let them stand two days, then set the jar on the fire in a pan of cold water, and let it remain till the fruit is scalded a little; the next day boil it gently about ten minutes, and the syrup a little longer; repeat the boiling of the syrup several times, just scalding the fruit each time. 734. To preserve Cherries. Stone the cherries carefully, and to every quart take a pound and a half of loaf-sugar, put a layer of cherries and a layer of sugar in a stone jar, set them half an hour in a pan of water on the fire, let them stand two days, then boil them gently about half an hour, then take out the fruit into small jars, and boil the syrup quarter of an hour longer ; pour it on the fruit, and when cold, paper tbeiq as directed. 736- To preserve Green-gages. Select the finest plums when they begin to soften, spht, but do not pare them ; weigh the same quantity of sugar as fruit, strew a part of it over, and cover them till the following day ; pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it gently with the remaining sugar eight minutes, skim it /196 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. tfell, then add the plums, and simmer till clear, observing to skim it. Lay the fruit singly into small stone jars, and pour the syiup upon it. The kernels may be added if preferred, 736. To preserve Seville Oranges. Take any quantity of Seville oranges, grate off the rind quite thin, and rub them very well with common salt, then wash them quite clean from the salt in cold water, then put them in clean cold water for five days, changing the water every day, then tie the oranges in muslin separately, put them in a pan of cold water, and boil them two hours, or till you can thrust a straw through them, then cut a bit out of the top of the oranges, take out all the inside, till they look quite clear, and wash them in hot water. To a dozen of oranges allow five pounds of good loaf sugar, and four pints of spring water, set it on the fire to boil, and skim it before you put in the oranges, then put them in, and let them boil till they look dear; when cold fill the inside with the syrup, and tie on the bits that were cut out with fine thread ; give them a boil the next day. The sweet Seville or Lisbon oranges are equally good preserved in this way, without the rinds being rasped, 737. Seville Oranges. Cut a small hole at the stalk end of the oranges, aftc" having rasped them a little; take out the pulp quite cleau, and put the oranges in cold salt and water for two days, changing it twice a day, then boil them rather more than an hour in spring water, changing the water frequently when boiling, aivd laying something on to keep them down, but do not cover the pan ; have ready a good syrup, allow- ing two pounds of sugar to a pint of water, boil the oranges in it till they look clear, leaving one out to be beaten in a mortar with the pulp, after the skin and seeds are taken out, weigh the pulp, and take an equal weight of powdered sugar, with very little water ; when dissolved, put in the1% PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. pulp and boil it over a slow fire till clear, when cold, put the marmalade in the oranges, fill them up with syrup, and tie on the bits that were cutout. It raiher injures the fla- vour of the pulp, if not taken out before the oranges are boiled in the water. 738. To preserve Jargonel Pears. Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup; let them lie a day or two ; then make the syrup richer, and simmer again, repeat this till they are clear, then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven for a short time. They may be kept in the syrup and dried as wanted, as it makes them more moist and rich. 739. To preserve Magnum- Bonum Plums; excellent as a Sweetmeat, or in Tarts, but not good to be eaten raw, Prick the plums with a needle, and slit the skin at the seam with a sharp knife, simmer them very gently in a thin syrup, allowing a pound of sugar to a pint of water; put them in a bowl, and when cold pour the syrup over. Let them lie three days; then make a syrup of three pounds 4 | of sugar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. Boil the plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from them. Boil them very gently till clear, and the syrup adheres to them. Put them singly into small pots, and pour the syrup over. These plums are apt to ferment, if not boiled in two syrups ; the first will make a pleasant liquor mixed with a little water, but will have too much acid to keep. Do not break them ; one parcel may be done after another, and thereby save much sugar. 740. Gooseberry Jam. To lour pounds of ripe red gooseberries allow a ponnd of fine sugar, cut the gooseberries in halves, then boil thtuaPRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 197 with the sugar till ihe jam will stiffen, it will take a great deal of boiling, and must be stirred carefully or it will buru. 741. Cheri'y Jam. To four pounds of cherries allow a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of red currant juice; stone the cherries, boil the whole together pretty fast till it will stiffen, then put it into pots for use. Boil the currant juice and sugar together before you put in the fruit. 742. Another way. To twelve pounds of Kentish or duke cherries when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar; break the stones of part, and blanch the kernels, then put them to the fruit and sugar, and boil all gently till the jam will leave the pan. Pour it on plates to dry. Keep it in boxes with white paper between each layer. 743. Black Plum Jam. Gather the plums when quite ripe, bruise them in a pre- serving pan as much as possible, and heat them over a slow fire till quite soft, pulp them through a colander or coarse sieve, rub the pan with a little fresh butter, and boil the fruit an hour, stirring it all the time, then put eight ounces of powdered loaf-sugar to every pound of jam; mix it off the fire, then set it on the fire again and boil half an hour, then put it in pots and sift powdered sugar over. The Magnum bonum plums prepared in the above manner, make an excellent jam, indeed it is considered by those who have tried it, to be the best and cheapest way of preserving that fruit, and it keeps well. The common red plums may also be used in the same way, with moist sugar. 744. Peach Jam. Take ripe peaches, and proceed as for plum jam, adding R 2198 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. half an ounce of bitter almonds mixed with a little pow- dered sugar to every pound of jam. Apricot Jam may be made the same way. 745. Strawberry Jam. Take ripe scarlet strawberries, bruise them, and add a little juice of red currants, put eleven ounces of sifted loaf sugar to every pound of fruit, set them over a clear fire, and boil forty minutes. When done put it in pots ; and when cold, paper them. 746. Apple Jelly. Fare and core some apples, put them in a stew-pan with as much water as will cover them, boil lery fast, when the fruit is all mashed add a quart of water, boil half an hour more, and run it through a jelly bag. Or, prepare apples as above, and add half an ounce of isinglass, boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly, put it to the apple water as strained through a coarse sieve, add sugar, a little lemon- juice and peel boiled all together, take out the peel and pour it into a dish. In summer, codlins are the best; in winter, golden rennets or pippins. 747. Another way to make Apple felly. Pare and core twenty golden pippins, boil them in a pint and half of spring water till quite tender, then strain the liquor through a colander: to every pint of liquor put a pound of fine sugar; add the grated rind of orange or lemon and boil to a jelly. Serve it up in jelly glasses. 748. Blackberry Jelly. Take blackberries when quite ripe, pick, and put them in a stew-pot covered close, set them in a pan of water, and let them stand over the fire till reduced to a pulp ; then strain and put to a pint of the juice, a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, and the juice of a lemon strained; boil it to a jelly, and pour it into pots for use. The rind of a lemon pared very thin may be boiled in it.PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 1 99 749. An excellent Receipt for Red Currant Jelly. Take two-thirds of red currants to one of white, squeeze them, (without picking) strain, and press the juice through a hair sieve, and immediately make it quite hot, hut do not let it boil; to every pint of juice allow a pound of sugar, powdered fine and also made quite hot, have it ready to put to the hot juice, add it by degrees, stirring it all the time till the sugar is melted, then put it into pots imme- diately. This is both an economical and expeditious way, and has verv much the flavour of the fruit. Black currant jelly made the same way with a mixture of white currants is very superior to that made by boiling, only put the currants in the oven to stew with a little water, the juice being much thicker and more difficult to strain. 750. Cranberry Jelly. Make a very strong isinglass jelly, wheu cold mix it with double the quantity of cranberry juice, which must be pressed and strained from the fruit after having been stewed in a jar with a little sugar; sweeten with fine loaf- sugar, boil it up, and then strain it info a mould, 751. Barberry Jelly, Pick the fruit and put it into an earthen jar, with water enough to cover it: set the jar in a pan of cold water on the fire till the fruit is all burst, and the water is well in- corporated with the juice; then run the liquor through a jelly bag, and to every pint allow three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and boil it till it will jelly. Black currant jelly may be made in the same way, but the jar must be only half-full of currants and filled up with water. 752. Orange Jelly. Grate the rinds of two Seville oranges, two China oranges and two lemons, squeeze the juice of six Seville and two China oranges and three lemons upon the grated rinds.200 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. t?ke three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar and a pint of water, and boil it to a thick syrup, when cold put it to the juice. Boil two ounces ol isinglass in a pint of spring water till dissolved ; strain it through a seive, and stir it till nearly cold, then put it to the syrup, pass it through a jelly-bag and put it in a mould. 703. Raspberry Jelly. Mash the raspberries well with a wooden spoon, set them on the fire in a preserving pan, stirring it all the time, when near boiling, take it off and strain it through a hair- sieve, measure the liquor into a clean pan and let it boil twenty minutes, then to every pint of juice put fourteen ounces of loaf sugar, stir it well off the fire till the sugar is dissolved, then boil it twenty minutes, stirring it well; pour it into pots or glasses, and when cold sift fine sugar over, the next day paper them. About a third part of currants may be added. Gooseberry jelly may be made the same way, or the gooseberries might be stewed without bruising, and then strained through a hair-sieve. 754. Quince Jelly. Take the liquor in which the quinces for marmalade have been boiled, run it through a jelly-bag, and to every pint allow a pound of fine loaf sugar: Doil it till it is quite clear and will jelly. See No. 759. 755. Apple Jelly. Take large, juicy, tart apples, slice them very thin into water without paring ; weigh the apples and put them in a pan, allowing a pint of water to a pound of fruit, boil till the apples are soft but not pulp, strain or squeeze it through a thin cloth or flannel; to every pint of juice allow a pound of loaf-sugar, and to three pints of jelly, the rind of two lemons pared very thin, the juice of three strained, and a little white ginger sliced, scraping off the outside, and the whites of two eggs beaten to clear it ; boil it twenty minutes.PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 201 Another way is to take the juice after being boiled, and drained as above, four pounds to one of loaf-sugar, and boil till it will jelly. 756. Damson Jelly. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, add- ing an ounce, of lump sugar, three quarters of a pint of damson syrup ; and two table spoonsful of lemon juice ; let it just boil up, then strain it through muslin, and when nearly cold, pour it into moulds. The rind of a lemon pared very thin and boiled in the syrup improves the fla- vour ; more sugar may be added if required. 757. Apricot Marmalade. When you preserve apricots, pick out all the bruised ones, and those that are too ripe for keeping ; boil them in the syrup till they will mash, then beat them in a marble mor- tar to a paste, take half their weight of loaf-sugar, and put as much water to it as will dissolve it, boil and skim it well; then boil the fruit till clear, and the syrup thick like a fine jelly; put it into glasses, or cups, and paper them as directed. 758. Apple Marmalade. Pare and slice some sharp apples into water; scald them till quite tender, and pulp them through si sieve; put three quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of apple into a preserving-pan, let it simmer over a gentle fire, skimming it well. Put it into sweetmeat pots when of a proper thickness. Pears may be prepared in the same way ; or, they may be mixed with apples. 759. Quince Marmalade. Pare,.core, and quarter the quinces, boil them gently in water till they begin to soften, but do not cover them in boiling; strain through a hair sieve, and beat them in a mortar to a pulp; allow to every pound of pulp three20*2 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. quarters of a pound of fine sugar; boil till the marmalade is stiff, then put it into pots. 760. Orange Marmalade. Rasp Seville oranges, or pare them very thin, then cut them in quarters, and take out the pulp quite clean; tie the rinds in thin cloths and set them on the fire to boil, changing the water three or four times to take out the bitterness ; when quite tender, take them out and cut them in thin slices; take out all the seeds and skins lrom the pulp, and mix it with some leinomjuice, put it to the sliced orange ; and to every pound of fruit take a pound and a half of good loaf-sugar and a pint of water; set the sugar and water on the fire, and when it has boiled a few minutes put in the orange, let it boil rather quickly, stirring it constantly, when quite clear, pour it into pots or glasses. Lemon marmalade may he made the same way. Smooth Orange Marmalade may be made as above, only the rinds, instead of being cut into chips, must be pounded in a mortar, and gradually mixed with the syrup ; boil it till clear. 761. Scotch Transparent Marmalade. To two pints of the juice and pulp of Seville oranges take two pounds of yellow honey, and boil to a proper consis- tence, and quite clear. 762. Raspberry Marmalade. Bruise and strain the fruit through a sieve, when quite ripe weigh the pulp and boil it quickly till reduced nearly one-half, then mix in half a pound of sugar powdered to a pound of fruit; boil till it becomes stiff, then pour it into sweetmeat pots or moulds. 763. Gooseberry Marmalade. Tut green gooseberries in cold water, set them on a slow fire with a small bit of alum till they are scalded, and203 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. become just soft enough to pulp through a hair-sieve; allow the same quantity of sugar, and boil it the same as the raspberry. 764, Apple Cheese. Pare and core your apples, put them in a deep stew-pot or jar, and put the parings and cores at the top, tie a paper ovei, and bake them in a moderate oven till they are quite soft; take off the parings and core, also any bits of hard apple which may be on the top, pulp the fruit through a sieve, and put it in a stew-pan with powdered sugar to your taste ; boil it four hours till it be quite stiff, then put it into moulds or cups, and paper them as the damson cheese : pet jt in a dry place, and in three weeks it will cut quite smooth. You may add the rind of a lemon grated, and a few blanched almonds cuf in small pieces, before you put it in the moulds. 765. Another way. Take four large apples, scald them till they will pulp through a colander, add a little cream and lemon-peel i take half an ounce of isinglass, boil it in a little water* strain and mix it jvith the pulp, add sugar to the taste, and two yolks of eggs, keep stirring it till cold, then put it iutq a mould. This will only do for present use. 766. Apricot Cheese. Put ripe apricots into an earthen jar, and set it in a pan of water, let the fruit boil till soft, then pulp it through a. colander, and allow to every pint of pulp three quaitersof a pound of loaf-sugar powdered, boil it fast till it becomes stiff. Some of the kernels blanched and put in are a great improvement. 767. Bullace, or Plum Cheese of any kind Weigh the fruit, and allow a pound of sugar to every four pouuda of fruit. Put the fruit into axi &irthen jar/ set it204 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. in a pan of water on the fire, or in a cool oven, till the fruit is softened, so that it will pulp through a sieve, then boil the pulp with the sugar till stiff. Some of the kernels of the fruit blanched and put in improve it very much. 768. Cherry Cheese. Stone Kentish cherries, blanch some of the kernels in boiling water, and mix with the fruit; to every twelve pounds of fruit put three pounds of powdered loaf-sugar ; boil it to a thick jam, and when the fruit no longer adheres to the pan it is done enough ; then pour it into pots. 769. Damson Cheese. Pick ripe damsons and put them in a jar, tie white paper over, and bake them in a slow oven till they are quite soft, or scald them in as much water as will just cover them, drain and rub them through a sieve while hot, put the pulp and juice into a stew-pan with fine powdered sugar to your taste ; boil it over a moderate fire till quite stiff; it will re- quire boiling near three hours ; keep it stirring, to prevent it burning to the pan, and a few minutes before you take it off the fire, mix the kernels of the damsons with it. Pour it into cups or moulds, and in a day or two co>er them with tissue paper dipped in sweet oil and put close over them : keep it in a dry place. It will keep several years. 770. Blaek Butter. Take gooseberries, currants, raspberries, strawberries, cherries, (plums, or any other kind of fruit may be added,) of each an equal quantity, boil them till reduced to a pulp, then rub them through a coarse sieve, and to every three pounds of fruit allow one pound of sugar ; boil it till quite thick, then pour it into pots. It is a very pleasant sweet- meat, keeps well, and will cut quite smooth. 771. Black Currant Rob. Gather your currants when quite ripe, pick them cleaaPRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 205 from the stalks, put them into a large stew-pot, and tie paper over; bake them two hours in a moderate oven, then take them out and squeeze them well through a thin coarse cloth, put six quarts of the juice into a pan, and boil it over a slow fire, stirring and boiling it till reduced to about two quarts, then pour it into flat pots and dry it; paper it as directed, and keep it in a dry place. 792. Elder Rob. When the elderberries are quite ripe, pick them clean, put them in a jar, and bake them in a slow oven nearly two hours, then squeeze out the juice through a coarse cloth, boil it over a slow fire till it be very thick, keep it stirring, three quarts should be reduced to one; put it into pots, and set it in the sun for two or three days ; paper it as before. This, as well as the black currant rob, is an ex- cellent thing 1 or a hoarseness or sore throat. 793. Black Currant Lozenges. Put any quantity ol black currants into a large jar, cover them close, set them in a moderate oven and let them re- main all night, then press the juice or pulp through a coarse thin cloth as dry as possible, set it on the fire with hall a pound of powdered loaf-sugar to about three pints of pulp, only let it simmer, stirring it almost constantly ; skim it, and when it becomes thick, rub a large flat dish with a little butter, pour in the jam, and set it before the fire or in a cool oven to dry ; when sufficiently dried, cut it into lozenges. 794. To dry Pears. Paie any kind of large baking pears, to half a peck, put two pouuds of sugar and three pints of water ; set them in a moderate oven in a large jar to stew, but do not let them be soft, then take them out, let them stand a fmv days, and boil the syrup again and pour it on them, and let them stand a day or two longer ; then drain them from the svrup, and lay them on dishes or tins to dry in a cool oven. S80S PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &c. 795. To dry Apples. Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and flatten them gently by degrees, when soft enough to bear it. If the oven be too hot they will shrink, and at first it should be very cool,—The biffin, the minshul crab, or any tart apples, are the best for drying. 796. To dry Apples. Boil them innew w ort on a slow fire for quarter of an hour, them take them out and press them rather flat; dry them in an oven or stove, put them in layers in a box, with Writing paper between, and they will keep all the year. 797. To dry Da?nso?is. Spread the damsons, when quite ripe, on thin coarse cloths, laid on large dishes or baking tins, set them several hours in a very cool oven, then take them out, and when cold put them in again, doing so repeatedly till dry enough to keep ; put them in a box w ith white paper between each layer, keep them in a dry place, and they will eat like fresh plums during the winter. 798. To dry Goosehcn ics. To six pounds of gooseberries, when they begin to turn red, take two pounds of bruised sugar, strew it on them and let them stand three days, then put them in a jar covered close, and set it over a gentle fire in a pan of cold water; when near boiling, take them off aud let them stand till the next day; then drain the syrup carefully from them and boil it a little, pour it upon the fruit, and let it remain a few days or a week, boil the syrup up again, and let them stand a day or two longer, then drain them from the syrup and pour water on; drain and dry them on sieves or dishes, in the sun, or a cool oven. Keep them dry. They are very good in puddings instead of raisingPRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 307 799. To dry Gooseberries without Sugar. Gather the large fed hairy gooseberries when dry and nearly ripe, lay them singly on sieves or dishes in the *un, or before the fire till quite dry, they may now and then be put in a very cool oven. Keep them from the air with white paper between the layers of fruit. 800. To dry Cherries. To four pounds of large Kentish cherries allow a pound of sugar ; stalk and stone the cherries, then make the sugar into a syrup with as much water as will cover them well; boil the cherries in it gently for about half an hour; let them stand three or four days, then boil the syrup, adding more sugar, and pour it boiling over the cherries, let them stand four days longer, then take them out and lay them on sieves to dry, either in the sun or in a slow oven ; and when they are sufficiently dried, put them in boxes, laying white paper between each layer of cherries. 801. To dry Cherries without Sugar. Slone the cherries and set them on the fire in a preserving pan, let them simmer in their own liquor ; shake them in the pan, and put them in earthen dishes, the next day give them a scald, and when cold, put them on sieves to dry before the fire or in a cool oven. Twice or three times, an hour each time, will dry them. Keep them as abo^e. 802. To bake Apples. Take large apples, core but do not pare them, cut them in two, then strew sugar on a flat dish, and lay the apples the flat side downwards, strew sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. 803. To bake Apples the French way. Cut the apples in two without paring, take out the cores and fill up the cavity with butter and sugar; bake them in a moderate oven.PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 203 804. Black Caps. Take some large apples, cut a slice off the stalk end* and scoop out the cores; set them on a tin in a quick oven till they are brown, then wet them with a clean fea- ther dipped in rose water, j?rate sugar over, and set them in the oven again till they look bright and nearly black, then take them out and put them in a deep dish, pour round them thick cream or custard. 805. To bake Pears. Wipe but do not pare them; lay them on tin plates, and bake them in a slow oven, when done enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon; they should be baked three or four times very gently. 806. To scald Codlins. Wrap each in a vine leaf, and pack them close in a clean saucepan ; when full, pour as much water in as will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, or cus- tard. Dust fine sugar over the apples. 807. To stew Pippins. Make a syrup of half a pound of loaf-sugar to a pint of water, clarified with the whites of eggs. Pare the apples, scoop out the cores, and stew them very gently in the syrup till thev look clear ; some lemon-peel cut in very narrow shreds, like straws, and scalded a few’ minutes in water, may be stewed with the pippins, to lay over them in the dish. Pears are excellent stewed in the same way. 808. To stew Pears. Pare the fruit, and cut out the blossom end with a sharp knife. To every two pounds of fruit allow' half a pound of sugar anil a pint of water. Boil the sugar and water to a syrup, then put in the fruit with some lemon-peel and203 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. cloves, cover and let them stew gently till the pears look red and are tender. The common baking pears are the sort generally used for this purpose, but swan-egg pears done this way are extremely delicate. They will keep several months. Any of the common baking pears are very good, when pared and stewed in]a cool oven, with as much water as will cover them, in which the peels of the pears, some apple parings and cores have been boiled, allowing two pounds and w half pf sugar to a peck of fruit; cover with a plate that will fit inside the stew-pot, and tie a paper over. 809. To stew Pears purple. Peel some large pears, put them in a stew-pot and boil the parings in water just sufficient to cover them, then strain the liquor and add sugar to make it a syrup, pour it over the pears, and lay a pewter plate close upon them, then put on the cover quite close, and set them in a pan of water in a boiler over a slow fire, let them stew till quite tender, and they will be a fine colour. 810. To bottle Black Currants. Cut the currants from the stalks, when dry and fresh ga- thered, put them in clean bottles, with eight ounces of powdered loaf sugar to a quart of fruit; cork them loosely, and set them in a pan of cold water, with some hay between and under the bottles, set them on a slow fire till the fruit begins to shrink a little in the bottles, then take the pan off the fire, and let them stand till quite cold, rosin or cement the corks, and set the bottles in a cool place free from damp. 811. To bottle Damsons. Gather the damsons carefully before they are ripe, put them into wide-mouthed bottles, cork them loosely, and let them stand a fortnight, then look them over, and if anv be spoiled or mouldy, take them out, wipe, and cork the rest close; set the bottles in sand, the necks downward, and they will keep till spring, and be as good as fresh ones.210 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. 812. To bottle Damsons. Gather the damsons quite dry and sound before they are too ripe, put them in wide-mouthed bottles, cork them loosely, and set them in a moderate oven for three or four hours. All kinds of fruit that are bottled may be done in the same way, and if properly done, will keep good for two years. When cold, rosin the corks, and set them in a cool dry place, with the necks downward, to prevent them from fermenting. Be very careful the oven is not too hot or the bottles will fly. Cork them tight before they are quite cold. 813. To bottle Green Currants. Gather the currants when the sun is hot upon them, cut them from the stalks, and put them in clean dry bottles ; set them in a dry cool place, or keep them in dry sand, with the necks downward. Black Currants, before they are quite ripe may be done the same way. 814. To bo(tle Cranberries. Pick them quite clean and put them in clean bottles, fill them up with cold spring water that has been previously boiled; rosin the corks, and keep them in a cool place. American cranberries and clusterberries are kept in the same way. When to be used (or tarts, stew them a little with a few spoonsful of the water they have been kept in, and sugar. 815. To bottle Gooseberries. Pick gooseberries of the small round kind, put them in clean dry bottles, cork them, but not tight, put them in a pan of cold water and set them on a moderate fire, when the gooseberries change colour and begin to shrink a little in the bottles, take them off the fire and let them stand till cold, then cork them tight and rosin the corks. Keep them in dry saud in a cool place, with the necks downward.211 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, ScC. They should be done very gently. It is well to put a little hay at the bottom of the pan and between the bottles. Green currants answer very well done in the same way. Rhubarb peeled and cut as for tarts, bottled and scalded in the same manner as gooseberries, will keep many months, and answers extremely well. 816. Another way. Pick the gooseberries as before into clean bottles, then fill them up with spring water that has been boiled with a small bit of alum in it, and stood till cold again ; set them on the fire in a pan of cold water, when they begin to look white in the bottles, take the pan oft’ the fire, and let them stand till cold, then take them out of the pan, cork and rosin them, and keep them in a cool place free from damp, 817. To preserve Apples during the winter. Spread a coarse cloth on the floor in an upper room, place a layer of apples, then a cloth, and so on alternately to any height you please; then throw a large coarse cloth over the whole, taking great care that the cloth be turned under the edge of the cloth first laid on the floor, all the way round so as to communicate with the floor on every side. The Americans fold them singly in papers, instead of laying cloths between the layers. 818. Another method of preserving Apples. Gather the apples rery carefully, and immediately lay them in heaps next the walls, on a board-floor one or tw o feet thick, without having any straw underneath them, it having been found by experience that the straw, when once moist with the sweat of the fruit, will soon cause them to decay. A room of the same temperature that is re- quired for drying cheese is most proper for the purpose, and when the weather is mild, air may be freely admitted, when frosty, the window must be carefully closed, and the apples well covered with sacks, or several folds of coarse212 PRESERVED FRUIT, JELLIES, &C. linen. They should be disturbed as little os possible, par- ticularly in frosty weather, taking out what are wanted very carefully. 819. Another way to preserve Apples. Put a layer of apples and a layer of dried fern alternately in boxes, aud cover them quite close : fern never gives the apples a musty taste, which straw is very apt to do. Chaff, or the husks of oats, answer very well for keeping either apples or winter pears. 820, Another. Dry a glazed jar perfectly well, put a few pebbles in the bottom ; fill the jar with apples, and cover it with a bit of wood made to fit exactly, and over that put a little fresh mortar. The pebbles attract the damp of the apples, and the mortar draws the air from the jar, and leaves the apples free from its pressure, which, together with the principle of putrefaction contained in the air, are the causes of decay. Apples have been thus kept quite sound and juicy till July. Observations on preserved Fruits. Sweetmeats should be kept in a cool place, but quite free from damp ; heat makes them ferment, and damp causes them to mould ; they should be looked at several times in the first two months, after they are preserved, that they may be boiled again a little if uot likely to keep; they keep best in small jars. In preserving gooseberiies, currants, &c. it will be found useful to dissolve the sugar in a little juice of fruit, before the pan is set on the fire, and when warm, put in the fruit, when it is preferred boil- ing the sugar with the fruit at the first; and even where that system is not adopted, a little juice will rather pre- vent the fruit from sticking to the pan, which it is very apt to do, when first set on the fire, without great care. The practice of rubbing the bottom and sides of the pan with a little fresh butter is frequently adopted, and answers very well. It will be fourjrd to answer the purpose id213 PICKLES, &C. economists, to half-boii the fruit before the sugar is added. Cherries, green gooseberries, Siberian crabs, and other fruits kept in syrups, should not be put into rich syrnp at the first, as it tends to make them hard and shrivelled ; a thin syrup of about a pound of sugar to a pint and a half or a quart of water, (according to the kind of fruit to b^ pre- served) will be found quite sufficient to begin with, adding more sugar each time of boiling, till the syrup is rich enough. PICKLES, 821. To pickle Red Cabbage. Slice it thin into an earthen dish, cover it close and let it stand two days, then drain it through a sieve; boil some good vinegar with ginger, whole black pepper, and a bit of alum the size of a hazle nut; pour it on the cabbage and cover it close. When cold, tie leather on the jar, and it will be ready for use in a few days. A few slices of red beet-root, or some small branches of cauliflowers, may be added, after being salted. 822. To pickle Red Cabbage. Hang the cabbages up in the kitchen, bottom upwards, for four days to dry ; then cut them into thin slices, put them into a stone jar, first a layer of cabbage, then a little salt, some black pepper, all-spice, and ginger, and so on till the jar is full; fill it up with vinegar, and tie it down close. 823. To pickle Mushrooms. Take only the buttons, rub them with a bit of flannel and salt, throw a little salt over, and put them in a stew-pan214 PICKLES, &C. with a little mace and white pepper; as the liquor comes out, shake them and keep them uncovered over a gentle fire till all the liquor is dried up ; then put as much good vinegar into the pan as will cover them, let it warm, then put them into small jars or glass bottles. They will keep two years. 824. To pickle Mushrooms whitCi Put some button mushrooms into milk and water, wipe them from it with a bit of new flannel, throw them into spring water and salt as you wipe them, boil them four minutes, then immediately drain them, cover them close between two cloths, and dry them well, then tfoil a pickle of double distilled vinegar, mace, and a very little white pep- per ; when cold, put it to the mushrooms, pul them in small glass bottles with wide necks, pour a tea-spoonful of olive- oil on the top; cork them well and tie leather on. When opened for use, tie a bit of cotton at the end of a small stick, or the small end of a tea-spoon, and take off the oil quite clean. Some scald them in milk, which is also a very good way. 825. Elder Buds. Gather elder buds when about the size of hop buds, put them into salt and water for nine days, stirring them two or three times a day, and proceed as for cucumbers. 826. To pickle Cauliflowers. Pull the cauliflowers in small pieces, put them in a jar and sprinkle them well with salt, pour boiling water over to cover them, tie them up close and let them stand till the next day, then drain them carefully, and spread them on a clean cloth, cover them with another, and let them remain till the next day when they will be quite dry : make a pickle of good pale vinegar with white pepper- corns, ginger a little bruised, a little mace, and scraped horse-radish ; lay the cauliflower in a stone jar, and pour the pickle boiling hot upon it.PICKLES, &C. 215 827. To Pickle Caulijloivers. Cut the Cauliflowers in small bunches, throw them for one minute only into boiling salt and water, drain, and put them into cold spring water, then drain and dry them very well, put them in good pale vinegar cold; let them stand a week or ten days, then change the vinegar, adding mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and scraped horse-radish. Keep it covered close, and let it stand at least three months before you use it. 828. To pickle Samphire. Take some fresh gathered samphire, sprinkle it with two large handsful of salt, cover it with spring water, and let it stand twenty-four hours, then put it in a brass pan with a handful of salt, cover it well with vinegar, then cover the pan close, and set it over a slow fire till green and crisp, for should it remain till soft it will be spoiled ; when cold, tie over it a bladder and leather. 829. To pickle Parsley. Make a strong brine that will bear an egg; put in any quantity of fine curled parsley; let it stand a week, then make a fresh brine as before, and let it stand another week, then diain it well and put it into spring water, changing it three successive days ; scald it in hard water till green, then take it out and drain it. Boil as much distilled vinegar as will cover it, with two or three blades of mace, a nutmeg sliced, and a shalot or two ; when cold, pour it on the parsley, with two or three slices of horse- radish; tie leather over it. 830. To pickle Cucumbers. Take half a pound of bay-salt to one hundred of cucum- bers, boil the salt and water and pour it hot upon them, coyer them up close for three hours, then take them out of the jai and wrap them in a cloth till cold, then put them in a pan with vinegar, mace, ginger, black pepper, and salt; let them simmer till they begin to turn green, then put216 PICKLES, &C. them ia jars, with scraped horse-radish, and tie leather over. 831. To pickle Cucumbers. Take the small long sort, fresh gathered, pour over them a strong brine of salt and water boiling hot, cover them close, and let them stand all night; the next day stir them gently, then drain and dry them in a cloth; make a pickle of good vinegar, ginger sliced, Cayenne and black pepper; when the pickle boils, put in the cucumbers, cover them and let them boil quick three imiuutes; put them into a jar with the pickle, and cover them close; when cold, put in a sprig of dill with the seed downw ard. They will be very crisp and green done in this way, hut if not quite green enough with once ^oiling, boil up the pickle again the next day. and pour it on the cucumbers imme- diately. 832. Another way. Put the cucumbers into an unglazed stone jar, cover them with brine made with quarter of a pound of salt to a quart of water, cover them with cabbage leaves and then a plate, set them on the hearth before the lire for two or three days till they turn yellow, then green them as directed in No. 729, for te Preserved Cucumbers ” then drain and wipe them quite dry ; make a pickle as above, and pour it hot upon them. The pickles should always be kept well covered with vinegar. 833. To pickle Beet Roots. Boil the roots till tender, peel and cut them in slices, gimp the edges in the shape of wheels, or any other form ; put them in a jar, and pour on them as much vinegar boiled with mace, ginger sliced, and some horse-radish, as will cover them. Pour it on hot, and tie it down close. A little bruised cochineal may be added.217 PICKLES, &C. 834. Indian Pickle. To every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of turmeric, and half an ounce of Cayenne pepper; put in gherkins, large cucumbers cut down the middle and the seeds taken out, small green melons, small apples, French beans, radish pods, nasturtium buds, capsicum ; also cauliflower, small onions, elder buds, cabbage, and small lemons, the latter pared very thin and cut in quarters, squeeze out some of the juice and lake out the seeds, but not the pulp ; cut the cauliflower into small branches, and the cabbage in slices, spread them on a dish, and strew' a good handful of salt over them, add fresh salt to them three or four days, first pouring away the liquor that drains from them, then spread them out on a dish, and set them in the sun or before the fire, till quite dry and shrivelled; when all are prepared, arrange them in a large jar, strew in some mus- tard-seed, a few cloves of garlic, sliced horse-radish and ginger, according to the quantity; then pour in the vine- gar, &c. The pickle may be replenished at any time; it never spoils, and is better with keeping. W hen more vinegar is added, turmeric and Cayenne mnst be put in as at first. The ginger should lie in salt and water twenty-four hours, then sliced and laid in salt three days before it is used for the pickle. If preferred, the cauliflowers may be scalded about four minutes, cabbages about eight minutes, and then well dried. French beans, cucumbers, ©r fruit, should be just scalded and dried. 835. Indian Pickle. Divide the heads of some cauliflowers into pieces, and add some slices of the stalk w hen pared, put to them two white cabbages sliced, with the inside slices of carrots, onions, and turnips. Boil a strong brine, simmer the pickles in it two minutes, drain them, and let them dry over a stove or before the fire till they are shrivelled, then put them into ajar, and prepare the following pickle:—To four quarts of vinegar, add two ounces of flour of mustard, two ounces TPICKLES, &C. 218 of long pepper, two ounces of ginger, four ounces of black pepper, half an ounce of cloves, with some horse-radish, and a few eschalots. Boil the whole, and pour it on the pickle while hot; when perfectly cold, tie it down, and, if necessary, add more vinegar afterwards; in a month it will be excellent. 836. White Cabbage. Take three white cabbages, cut, and salt them as you would red cabbage ; put the cabbage when cut in a deep earthen pot, cover it close and let it stand in the cellar a week, turning it every day; then take it out and shake it open on a coarse cloth, to drain the brine from it, then put it in a jar with half a pound of w hite mustard-seed, two heads of garlic, and one ounce of turmeric; boil one gallon of vinegar, one ounce of long pepper, two ounces of white pepper, a small quantity of Cayenne, one ounce of ginger, and quarter of an ounce of mace, all together, then pour it on the cabbage, &c., stir it well up, and keep it close from the air; stir it every day for a month, and it will be fit for use. 837. Onions. In the month of September, choose the small white round onions, take off the brown skin, have ready a very clean Btew-pan of boiling water, throw in as many onions as will cover the top ; as soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, anti lay them on a cloth ; cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in ajar, or wide-mouthed glass bottles, and pour over them the best vinegar, just hot, but not boil- ing. W hen cold, cover them. 838. Onions. Peel some small onions, and throw them as you peel them into salt and water, changing the brine once a day for three days together, then set them over the fire in milkTICKLES, &C. 219 and water till near boiling; drain and dry them, then pour on them the following pickle, boiled and stood till cold again: the white distilled vinegar, salt, mace, white pepper, and a bay-leaf or two. They will not look white with any other vinegar. 839. Lemons. Grate off the yellow rind of the lemons and put them in an earthen pot, cover them 'entirely with salt, and let them stand a fortnight; then scald them three times with salt and water, letting them stand till cold each time, then put them in a jar, and boil as much vinegar (with pepper, gin- ger, and a little mace) as will cover them ; pour it upon the lemons; when cold, tie a bladder over, and they will be ready for use in six months. 840. Barberries. Take out the worst of the barberries and put them into equal quantities of vinegar and water, to every quart of this liquor put half a pound of coarse sugar, boil all together, and skim it till it looks a fine color: when cold, strain it through a cloth, pressing it to get all the color from the fruit, let it stand to settle, then pour it clear to the best of the barberries. 841. Another Way. Pick the barberries before they are quite ripe, put them into jars with as much strong salt and water as will covet them, tie them down with leather; when any scum arises, put them into fresh salt and water; they require no vine- gar ; cover them close. Currants may be done in the same way, with equal quantities of vinegar and water adding a little cinnamon and cloves. 842. Radish Pods. Gather the pods when young, put them in salt and water twenty-four hours, then boil the salt and water, pour it220 PICKLES, &C. on the pods, and cover them close ; when cold, boil it and pour it on again, repeat it till they are green, then drain them and make a pickle of good vinegar, with mace, gin- ger, long pepper, and horse-radish; pour it boiling hot upon the pods, and when nearly cold, boil the vinegar again and pour it on. When cold, tie leather over. 843. Fennel. Set some spring water on the fire, and when it boils put in some fennel tied in bunches, with some salt, just let it scald but not boil; when it is of a fine green, dry it in a cloth ; when cold, put it in a glass jar with some bruised nutmeg, mace, and a few white pepper-corns; fill up the jar with good cold vinegar, and lay some tresh fennel on the top; cover it as other pickles, with bladder and leather. 844. Nasturtiums. Gather the knobs or seeds of nasturtiums while young, put them into cold salt and water, changing the brine once a day for three days; make a cold pickle of vinegar, escha- lot, pepper, mace, and horse-radish, put in the seeds, and tie them up close. 845. Codlins. Gather them when little larger than a large walnut; put vine-leaves at the bottom of a large pan, lay in the cod- lins, cover them with leaves, then with water, set them over a slow fire till they will peel, then peel them and re- turn them into the same water, with vine-leaves top and bottom ; cover them close over a slow fire till they become greeny when cold, cut off the end whole with a small knife, scoop out the core, fill the apple with garlic and mustard-seed, replace the end that was cut off and set that end uppermost in the jar; pour on them cold pale vinegar, with a little mace and cloves. Salt may be added.PICKLES, &C. 221 846. Melon Mangoes. Take the proper sort of melons for pickling fresh gather* ed, cut a small square piece out of one side, scoop out the seeds, and mix them with mustard-seed and shred garlic, till the melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece, bind it up with small new packthread ; boil as much vinegar (allowing for wasting) as will c6ver them well, adding black and Cayenne pepper, salt, and ginger, pour it boiling hot over the mangoes four succes- sive days, the last time, add flour of mustard and scraped horse-radish just as it boils up. When cold, cover them close, observing to keep them well covered with vinegar. Large cucumbers, called green turley, prepared as mangoes, are excellent, and are sooner ready for eating. 847. Cucumber Mangoes. Lay the cucumbers in a strong brine two days, wipe them dry, then cut open one end and take out the seeds; in every cucumber put a clove of garlic, a shalot, a small onion, a clove, a little sliced ginger, Cayenne and whole black pepper, fill them up with mustard-seed and scraped horse-radish ; stitch on the ends, put them quite close in your jar, and pour on boiling vinegar enough to cover them ; repeat boiling the vinegar every day till they are green. The large green cucumbers are the best. 848. Cucumber Mangoes. Take the largest green cucumbers, before they are too ripe, or yellow at the ends, cut a piece out of the side, and take out the seeds with an apple-scraper or tea-spoon, and put them into a very strong brine for eight or nine days, or till they are very yellow, stirring them well two or three times each day; then put them into a brass pan, with a large quantity of vine-leaves both under and over them ; beat a little roche alum very fine, and put it in the salt and water they were taken from, pour it upon your cucum- T 2m PICKLES, &C. bers, and set them upon a very slow fire for four or five hours, till they are a good green ; then take them out and drain them on a hair sieve, and wipe them dry; when cold, put into them horse-radish, mustard-seed, two or three heads of garlic, a few pepper-corns, a few slices of green cucumbers cut in small pieces, till you have filled them; then take the piece you cutout and sew it on with a needle and thread. Have ready the following pickle: to every gallon of vinegar put half an ounce of mace, the same of cloves, two ounces of ginger sliced, the same of black pepper, Jamaica pepper, three ounces of mustard- seed tied up in a bag, four ounces of garlic, and a stick of horse-radish cut in slices ; boil the whole fite minutes in the vinegar, then pour it upon your pickles, tie them down, and keep them for use. The jar will require filling up with good vinegar frequently. 849. Kidney Beans. Pour over them boiling brine, cover them close, the next day drain and dry them, pour over them a boiling pickle of good vinegar, Jamaica and black pepper, a little mace and ginger; repeat boiling the vinegar every day till the beans look green. Radish pods may be done in the same way. 850. Kidney Beans. Take cheese-whey after it is scalded, make a brine strong enough to bear an egg; let the beans be young, dry, and fresh gathered, put them in the whey brine, and let them remain till they become a bright yellow colour, then drain them through a sieve, and dry them with a coarse cloth ; put them in a brass pan, and cover them with good alegar, put in some dill, and cover them close; put paper round the edge of the cover to keep in the steam, set the pan on a slow fire, and let it remain till the beans become green; then take them out of this pickle, and put them in a jar with fresh alegar boiled up with black and Jamaica pep- per, and sliced ginger, taking care to have them well covered with alegar.223 PICKLES, &C. Cucumbers, gherkins, radish-pods, parsley, nastur- tiums, broom-buds, and elder-buds, may all be pickled in the same way. 851. Walnuts. Prick the walnuts well with a pin when young; to one hundred, put quarter of a pound of whole black pepper, quarter of a pound of ginger sliced or bruised a little, quarter of a pound of mustard, a handful of the tops of garlic or shalot, and sliced horse-radish ; fill up the jar w ith cold vinegar, adding four large handsful of salt: cover it close with two covers of leather, and as the vinegar wastes fill up the jar. Let them stand a year before you use them ; if preferred, the vinegar may he boiled with the seasoning, and poured hot upon the walnuts. When the walnuts are used, the vinegar may be improved and made useful for sauce, by boiling it up with cloves and garlic ; then strain it and cork it up in bottles. 852. Walnuts. Prepare a pickle of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, boil and skim it well, then pour it over the walnuts, and let them stand six days; then make a brine as before, drain and put them into it, and let them stand a week, then drain and dry them with a cloth; pour over them quite hot as much good vinegar, boiled with mace, cloves, nutmeg, all-spice, bruised ginger, scraped or sliced horse- radish, and Jamaica pepper-corns, as will cover them. A little garlic and mustard-seed may be added, if approved. When cold, tie the jar up close. They will be ready in six months, but be careful to gather the walnuts before the shells become hard. Walnuts are moie liable to become black and soft when they lie in brine previous to being pickled, but ate sooner ready for use. 853. Walnuts green. Take fine clean walnuts before the shells become hard, layPICKLES, &C. 224 them in strong salt and water twelve days, changing the brine every two (lays, then set them over the fire till they will peel; having peeled them, return them into the same water, cover them very close, and set them over a slow fire till they are green; then drain them well, and boil as much vinegar as will cover them, with whole black and Jamaica pepper, mace, ginger, and a few bay leaves, pour the pickle hot upon the walnuts and cover them close ; when cold, tie them down with leather or bladder. As the vinegar wastes add sufficient to keep them covered. 854. Sugar Vinegar. To six gallons of water, take nine pounds of brown sugar, the whites of four eggs well-beaten, put in while the water is cold; when near boiling, skim it well, and boil it quarter of an hour; put it in a cask when about new-milk warm, with a little yeast spread on a toast; keep it in rather a warm place, stirring it frequently, the oftener the sooner it will be ready for use. 855. Sugar Vinegar. To one gallon of water, put one pound and half of sugar, dissolve the sugar in part of the water over the fire till it will make the whole just warm, then put it in a cask with a little alum and a little yeast, bung it up very lightly, and let it stand in a warm place till sour, then bottle it. I)o not wash your cask, and the next making will be ready in a much shorter time. 856. To make Sugar Vinegar another way. Boil ten pounds of coarse sugar, twelve gallons of water, and half a pound of brown bread together for one hour, then take out the bread, and pour the liquor into an 0|ien Vessel to cool, and on the following day add half a pint of yeast. Let it stand twelve or fourteen days, and then put it in a cask, and set it in the sun till sufficiently sour, which will commonly be in about six months. The-bung-hole must merely have a bit of slate over it.PICKLES, &C. 2*25 $57. Gooseberry Vinegar. Take three gallons of water, and four quarts of gooseber- ries bruised; place the whole in a tub, in which it must remain three days, being stirred often; then strain it off, and add to every gallon of liquor one pound of coarse sugar; pour the whole into a barrel with a toast and yeast. (The strength can be increased almost to any re- quired degree, by adding more fruit and sugar.) It must then be placed in the sun, and the bung-hole covered as before mentioned. 858. Gooseberry Vinegar. The gooseberries should be full ripe and bruised till all are broken; to every quart of pulp put five pints of cold water ; let it stand two days, stirring it three times a day, then strain it through a sieve, and afterwards through a flannel bag ; to every gallon put a pound and half of good moist sugar; when the sugar is dissolved, put it in a cask and stop it: if made of white or green gooseberries, the color will be finer. 859. Gooseberry Vinegar. Take the gooseberries when full ripe, stamp them small ; to every quart put three quarts of water ; stir them well together; let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain it through a canvas bag; to every gallon of liquor add one pound of brown sugar, and stir it well together before you barrel your liquor. The old bright yellow English gooseberries are the best. 860. Cowslip Vinegar. To fifteen quarts of water put fi/e pounds of coarse sugar, boil them together ten minutes; when cold, put four quarts of cowslip flowers into the liquor, with a small tea- cupful of barm: stir it well twice a day for a week, and set it in the sun.226 PICKLES, &C. 861. Primrose Vinegar. To fifteen quarts of water put six pounds of brown sugar \ let it boil ten minutes, and take off the scum ; pour it on half a peck of piimroses; before it is quite cold, put in a little fresh yeast, and let it work in a warm place all night; put it in a barrel in the kitchen, and when done working, close the barrel, still keeping it in a warm place. 862. To make Acid, or Vinegar Jrom Clover- flowers. Take a quartern measure of clover-flowers, half a pound of coarse sugar, and one pound of treacle, to one gallon of water ; put the sugar and treacle to the water, and boil them twenty minutes ; when just warm, put a little yeast to it; put the flowers in a vessel, and pour the liquor upon them. Stop it up close, and let it remain 611 fit for use, which will not be many w eeks. 863. Raisin Vinegar. To every two pounds of Malaga raisins put four quarts of spring water, lay a bit of slate on the bung, and set it in the sun till it is fit for use. A large stone bottle will do as well as a cask, if it be kept in the chimney-corner, or near the side of the fire-place a proper flme. 864. Vinegar from Crabs. To one peck of crabs bruised, put nine gallons of cold spring water; let them stand about nine days, covering the tub with a cloth, and stirring them twice every day ; then strain the liquor through a hair-cloth, and put it into a cask iron-booped and painted. To every gallon of liquor, put one pound of sugar, and stir it in the cask several times to dissolve the sugar; set the cask in the sun, and cover it with a bit of slate or tile till ready for use. This makes good strong vinegar that will do for pickles.PICKLES, &C, 227 865. Vinegar of Roses. Take dried roses, put them in a stone bottle, a large hand- ful to a quart of distilled vinegar, set it in the sun or by the tire till the virtue is extracted, then strain and keep it for use, 866. Elder Vinegar, Strip elder-flowers from the stalk, and dry them on a sheet of paper; when quite dry put them into glass bottles, and fill the bottles up with vinegar; cork them close; it will be ready for use in five or six weeks. Put half a peck to ,a gallon. 867. Cucumber Vinegar. Put fifteen large cucumbers, pared and sliced thin, into a jar with a quart of vinegar, four onions sliced, a few eshalots, a little garlic, a very little Cayenne pepper, a little white pepper and salt; let it stand four days, then strain it off and bottle it with some whole pepper. 868. To strengthen Vinegar. Suffer it to be repeatedly frozen, and separate each time the cake of ice or water from it. See No. 870. 869. Lemon Pickle. To six lemons, each cut into six or eight pieces, put one pound of salt, four cloves of garlic, with uiace, nutmeg, Cayenne pepper, and all-spice, quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of flour of mustard ; to these ingredients add two quarts of good vinegar, boil them quarter of an hour in a stone jar set in a pan of water, then set it by for six weeks, stirring it well every day; pour it into small bottles, and keep them very well corked. 870. Essence of Vinegar. During a hard frost, expose vinegar to the weather in228 TICKLES, &C. shallow vessels; the watery parts will freeze, but the spirit will remain fluid. Repeatedly expose the fluid as it is obtained, and if the season be very cold, a pint of strong vinegar will be reduced, by the frequent exposure, to about a table-spoonful of fine-flavoured essence, and very pungent. 871, Vinegar in Balls. Take bramble-berries when about half ripe, dry them, and then beat them to powder, make it up into balls with strong vinegar, as large as nuts, dry them very well, and keep them in boxes. When wanted for use, dissolve a ball in some stale ginger beer, or vinegar that is not so sour and good as you wish, and it will become strong vinegar. Green bramble-berries, put into good sherbet or wine, will make good vinegar in a few hours. 872. Common Vinegar. Dissolve two pounds of molasses in nine quarts of water, pour it into a vessel with half a peck of cowslip pips, when cool add yeast, expose it to the rays of the sun and in three months bottle it for use. 873. Walnut Catsup. Wipe a hundred walnuts when fit to pickle, slice and pound them in a mortar with three quarters of a pound of bay- salt; boil two quarts of good gooseberry vinegar and pour it upon them, let it stand two days, then strain it off and bottle it, put a clove of garlic into each bottle; a quart more vinegar may be poured over the walnuts after the first is drawn eff; it will serve for present use if well stirred. 874. Mushroom Catsup. Take care to have the mushrooms fresh gathered and full grown ; put a layer at the bottom of a deep earthen pan, and sprinkle them with salt, then another layer ofPICKLES, &C. 229 mushrooms, then more salt, and so on alternately; let them remain four hours, then mash them well with your hands, and let them stand two days, stirring them well each day, then put them into a stone jar, with an ounce and half of whole black pepper, and half an ounce of allspice; cover the jar very close and set it in a pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling two hours; take out the jar, and pour the liquor through a hair sieve and boil it gently half an hour; skim it well and pour it into a clean jug ; cover it close and let it stand in a cool place till next day, then cieai it off carefully through a thick flannel bag till it is perfectly clear; let it stand two days longer covered close, then pour it off, leaving the sediment (if any), and bottle it in small bottles: cork them closely and seal them; or dip them in bottle cement. If kept in a cool, dry place, it may be preserved a long time, and only half the quantity is required. If badly corked, and kept in a damp place, it will spoil. Examine it from time to time, and if any pellicle appears about it, boil it up again with a few pepper*corns. 875. Mushroom Catsup. Take a stew-pan full of the large flap mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and stalks of any others; throw a handful of salt among them, and set them by a slow fire. They will produce a great deal of liquor, which must be strained ; put to it four ounces of eschalots, two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves. Boil and skim it very well; when cold, cork it close. In two months boil it up again, with a little fresh spice, and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep a long time; which mushroom catsup rarely does, if not boiled a second time^ 876. Quintessence of Mushrooms. This delicate relish is made by sprinkling a little salt over the mushrooms; in three hours after, mash them ; next day, strain off the liquor, and boil ittill reduced to half. It wd* not keep long, but is preferable to anv catsup, which, in ' U230 PICKLES, &C. order to preserve it, must have spice, &c., which ge- nerally overpowers the flavour of the mushroom. Obs.—The only general rules that can be given for the proper and safe preparation of pickles are, to have sound vegetables, not over ripe, dry, and fresh gathered, trim- ming and wiping them carefully ; washing only such things as are to be steeped or parboiled previous to pick- ling. The best common alegar and vinegar may in most, cases be used for pickling; it should always be made scalding hot, and stand till cold, when cold vinegar is re- quired, as raiv vinegar is apt to become thick and ropy ; the gooseberry and sugar vinegar both answer very well for many kinds of pickle, if well made, and not too new . If the vinegar is not good, the pickles will be bad. It is scarcely possible to give a rale for the quantity of spices to be used, except that it should not be so great as to over- come the natural flavour of the articles pickled. Stone jars are the best for keeping pickles, as they are not so porous as the common earthen jars; the pickles should also be kept well cohered with vinegar, and the jars well closed ; cork hungs to fit the jars, with a wrapper of blad- der or leather round, and a cover of the same tied over, answers extremely well for that purpose. Small glass jars or bottles are the best for mushrooms, nasturtiums, &c , dipping the necks in bottle cement. When necessary to ooil vinegar for pickles, do it in a stone jar, on a hot stove, or in a pan of water on the fire. By parboiling pickles in brine, they will be ready in less time than they arc when done by soaking them in cold salt and water for six or eight days: when taken out of the hot brine, let them be cold, and wiped quite dry, before you put them in the pickle. A wooden spoon with holes in should be used for taking pickles out of the jars; they should never be taken out with a fork or the fingers; and pieces of pickle, such as mangoes, cucumbers, &c. should never be returned into the jar to the stock, but be kept separate in a small jar of vinegar. When the pickles are used, boil up the liquor with a little salt andCHEESE, &C. 231 fresh spice; when cold, bottle and cork it for use, either for sauce, or to pickle nasturtiums and gherkins, where a fine colour is no object. CHEESE, &c. 8*77. Neiv-Milk Cheese. Put five quarts of strippings, or afterings, as it is some- times called, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan with a large spoonful of rennet ;* when it is become curd, cut it through with a saucer or skimming-dish, just to break it; let it stand two hours, then spread a thin cloth in a sieve, put the curd in it and let the whey drain from it; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat with a two-pound weight upon it; when it has stood twelve hours, bind a fillet round, and turn it every day till dry, from one board to another. It may either be used in that state, or ripened, with dock-leaves or nettles, under and over, between two plates. If the weather be tolerably warm, it will be ready- in three weeks. 878. Cream Cheese. To four quarts of new milk put two of cream, mix them to- gether when cold, add as much boiling Avater as will make it new-milk Avarm ; when sufficiently curdled, lay a thin Avet cloth in a vat, then put in the curd with a dish, lay a board on that Avill go within the vat, lay on it a ten pound Aveight, and let it drain fourteen hours ; then take it out, and if too thick to dry soon, cut it in two with a string of packthread, and dry the parts separately. Do not put in any salt. * In Bavbary, instead of rennet, especiallyin the summer-season, they turn the milk with the flowers of the great-headed thistle, or wild artichoke.232 CHEESE, &C. 879. Cream Cheese. Boil two quarts of cream, put it to four quarts of new milk, the yolks of three eggs, three spoonsful of sugar, and as much rennet as will turn it; mix all together, and run it through a clean hair sieve; when turned to curd, take it into a cheese vat that will hold it all at once, lay a sinker (a board that will fit within the vat) upon it, and a weight upon that; let it stand till the next day; changing the cloth several times, and drawing it tighter each time, till it will go into a smaller vat. Turn it into clean cloths every day till ready for eating. The cloths should be very thin at the first. 880. Another Way. Take five quarts of new milk, put to it a quart of cream and a quart of water boiled separately, add two yolks of eggs well-beaten, a table-spoonful of sugar, and as much rennet as will turn it, lay a thin cloth in a sieve and pour it in; change the cloths four or five times, then lay the cheese in clean grass or rushes under and over, changing it twice a day; put a clean hot flannel twice a day over the grass. 881. To make a Cream Cheese in Straw Vats. Take one quart of cream, two quarts of good new milk, a little sugar, and one spoonful of rennet; add as much warm water as will make it as warm as new milk ; when the curd is formed, do not break it up, but put it in a straw vat without any cloth, and as the whey runs from it, keep adding more, but do not press it; in twelve hours turn it on a new bottom, let it stand two days, and it will be solid ; strew a little salt on both sides and turn it twice a day, wiping it every time; as soon as it will stand on an edge, set it up, and keep it in a dry room before a window to ha\e air, and it will be ready for eating in ten days. 882. York Cream Cheese. To a quart of thick cream taken out of the cream-pot, put233 CHEESE, &C. two quarts of new milk and a little salt, let it stand a day or two to thicken, stirring it sometimes; then pour it into a clean wet cloth laid in a sieve, let it drain till the next day, then turn it into a clean wet cloth, and afterwards into a clean dry cloth, once or twice every day, till dry enough for use, whieh will be in about ten or eleven days. After the first two or three days, lay it in a cloth on a board instead of a sieve. 883. Fresh Cheese. Sweeten some new' milk to the taste, grate in a little nut- meg, add very little salt, and a little rennet, just enough to turn it to a very soft curd. It must be formed in the dish in which it is to be sent to table, after being drained through a thin cloth laid in a hair sieve. 884. To make Cheese to cat New. Take six quarts of new milk, turn if with a little rennet, and let it stand till it is a light curd; do not break it, but take it up in a dish, and lay it in a cloth iu a sieve, then cover it with a cloth and lay a board to fit within the sieve, lay a pound-weight upon it, and turn it into a dry cloth twice a day till all the whey is drained from it, then have boards to turn it upon, and keep wiping it often, till ready for use. 885. To keep Cream. Mix with any quantity of good cream, half the weight of finely powdered lump-sugar, stir it together till the sugar is dissolved, and preserve it in bottles well corked. It will then keep very good for several months. 886. To preserve Butter. Take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beat them well to- gether; to sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of this composition, work it well, and put it down in pots.234 CHEESE, &C. The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, and should not be used till it has been kept a month. This article should be kept from the air, in the best glazed earthen pots, that will hold from ten to fourteen pounds each. 887. To prevent Milk and Butter from tasting of Turnips. Pour a quart of boiling water to two ounces of saltpetre, when dissolved and cold put it in a bottle, or jug with a cover, and keep it for use ; put in two large spoonsful to every four gallons of milk immediately when brought in, stirring it well. This method, if constantly and regularly attended to, will effectually prevent both milk and butter from tasting either of turnip, cabbage, or any strong herb the cows may accidentally crop at any time. A little saltpetre, about the size of a walnut, may also be put in the cream-pot, stirring it well twice a day. 888. To purify rancid or tainted Butter. Melt and skim the butter as if for clarifying, then put in a piece of well-toasted bread. In a very few minutes the butter will lose its offensive taste and smell, but the bread will become quite foetid. 889. To make Salt Butter fresh. To every pound of butter allow a quart of new milk, put them in a churn with a little arnatto; churn them well to- gether, and in about an hour take out the butter, and treat it exactly as fresh butter, by washing it in water and add- ing the usual quantity of salt. By this process the but- ter gains about three ounces in the pound, and is equal to fresh butter. A common earthen churn will answer the purpose.235 LEMONADE, FRUIT SHERBETS, &c. 890. Ginger Beer. To five gallons of water, take three pounds of brown sugar, one pound and a half of treacle, two ounces of ginger, and one ounce and a half of hops; bruise the ginger, and boil it with the hops half an hour in about three quarts of water, adding a table-spoonful of salt, then strain it upon the sugar and treacle, adding cold water to make up the five gallons ; stir in it two table-spoonsful of yeast, and let it stand till the next day, then put it in the barrel, leaving the cork rather loosely in; and after two days, close it up, adding a little isinglass, dissolved in a little of the beer, and in two or three days it will be quite ready for use. It will keep fresher, if bottled off, when clear, into clean stone bottles, that will hold two or three quarts each, put- ting in each bottle a tea-spoonful of brown sugar, and half a tea-spoonful of rice, and keeping the bottles well corked. 891. Ginger Beer. To five gallons of water, add four pounds of brown sugar, two ounces of ginger (bruised), and one ounce and a half of hops; boil all together half an hour, adding about a table-spoonful of salt when boiling; then strain it through a sieve; when nearly cold, add two table-spoonsful of good yeast, cover it, and let it stand till the next day; then put it into a barrel or drink-pot, with two tea-spoonsful of sugar, highly browned in the oven, but not burnt; let it work two days; then dissolve a small portion of isinglass in half a tea-cupful of water or ginger beer, put it into the barrel, and close it up. It will be ready to drink in a day or two.236 LEMOKADE, &C. If it be drawn off into clean dry stoon bottles, soon after it is tapped, the beer will keep fresher; provided the bot- tles be well corked. 892. Treacle Beer. To ei'dit quarts of boiling water, put one pound of treacle, half an ounce of ginger, and two or three balm leaves ; boil all together quarter of an hour ; when cool, add a little veast"; the next day put it in a barrel, and in two days draw it off into clean dry stone bottles, and cork them well. 893. Imperial. To half an ounce of cream of tartar, add the juice of a lemon, and the rind pared very thin ; pour on them four pints of boiling water, stir it and cover it close; when cold, sweeten with loaf-sugar; strain it and it will be fit for use. It is better to be used fresh. 894. Imperial. Pour two gallons of boiling water on one ounce of bruised o-iii°-er, one ounce of cream of tartar, the rind and juice of a large lemon, and a pound of loaf-sugar ; when cold, add one Targe table-spoonful of good purified yeast; let it stand six hours, then strain it and put it in small stone bottles, tying down the corks. It may be used the second or third day. 895. Ginger Beer or Pop. Take of bruised ginger one ounce, cream of tartar one ounce, boiling water one gallon, citric acid forty grains, lump-sugar one pound. Mix well together, and when nearly cold, add to it three spoonsful of good yeast, and let it stand eighteen or twenty hours ; strain it, then bot- tle it and cork it up tight. It will be fit for use in twenty- four hours. > 896. Lemon Beverage. To ten gallons of water, take fifteen pounds of loaf-sugar.LEMONADE, &C. 237 the whites of eight eggs well-beaten ; stir them all toge- ther while the water is cold; when near boiling, skim it well, and when it boils, put in three ounces of bruised ginger, and boil it twenty minutes; pour the liquor boiling hot upon the rinds of twelve lemons thinly pared ; when cold, put it in the cask, and add to it two table-spoonsful of yeast, the juice of thirty lemons, and half an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a little of the liquor, and stand till cold. In two days close it up, and in three weeks bottle it. 897. Lemonade. Pare five lemons very thin, and put to the linds half a pound of loaf-sugar, and a quart of boiling water; cover it close, and let it stand till cold ; then add to the juice of the lemons nearly half a pint of cowslip or other pale sherbet; pour in a pint of boiling skimmed milk to break it; then run it through a jelly-bag till fine. If, while running, you find it is not acid enough, put a wine-glass of vinegar into the jelly-bag. 898. Lemonade. Squeeze in the juice of as many lemons as will flavour two quarts of spring water pleasantly, put in a little of the rind pared very thin, loaf-sugar to the taste, and the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth; set it over a clear fire, let it boil a few minutps, strain it through a jelly-bag, and when cold it will be fit for use. N. B. One yolk of egg may be added, if agreeable. Orangeade may be made in the same way. 899. Orangeade or Lemonade. Squeeze the juice of oranges or lemons, or both, pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover it close ; boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it; when all are cold, mix the juice, infusion and syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet, strain through a jelly-bag, or muslin, adding water and capil- laire.238 LEMONADE, &C. 900. Lemonade. Pour some boiling- water on the rind of lemon pared very thin, cover it close ; when cold, add lemon-juice and sugar to the taste. More water may be added, if re- quired ; strain it through muslin. A little cinnamon and ginger boiled in the water, is a pleasant addition. 901. A pleasant Drink. Pour two table-spoonsful of capillaire, and the same quantity of vinegar, into a pint of cold water. 902. Lemon Water, a dcligluful Drink. Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, with a bit of the peel, and a little sugar, or a large spoonfnl of capillaire; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close two hours. 903. Fresh Currant Water. Squeeze a quart of fresh currants through a sieve with your hands, put in two table-spoonsful of powdered sugar, squeeze in a lemon, and add a quart of water. A very refreshing and delicious liquor may be made in the same way, from any kind of fresh, ripe, juicy fruit. 904. To make the celebrated Eastern Beverage, called Sherbet. This liquor is a species of negus, without the wine. It consists of water, lemon or orange juice, and sugar, in which are dissolved perfumed cakes, made of the best Damascus fruit, and containing also a few drops of rose- water : another kind is made of violets, honey, fresh juice of grapes, ike. It is well calculated for assuaging thirst, as the acidity is agreeably blended with sweet- ness. It resembles, indeed, those fruits which we find so grateful when thirsty. 905. Sherbet. Take nine Seville oranges and three lemons, grate off the239 LEMONADE, &C. yellow rinds, and put the raspings into a gallon of water. Take three pounds of loaf-sugar, boiled to a syrup with three pints of water, then add to it the juice of the fruit, keep stirring it till almost cold, then mix it with the water, strain it through muslin and bottle it for use. 906. Raspberry and Currant Sherbet. To four quarts of juice, add twelve quarts of water, and fifteen pounds of sugar boiled briskly about half an hour, then pour it into a vessel to cool, reserving a little of the liquor to dissolve half an ounce of isinglass. When cold, put it into a drink-pot, or barrel, and the following day put in the isinglass; cork it up, and put4some clay over the top of the cork to keep out the air ; in one month clear it off, but if it be not sufficiently fine, run it through a jelly-bag, or clear it off into another vessel, and let it stand one month longer, then bottle it; put in the corks very loose for about a fortnight, then cork them fast. Any kind of fruit sherbet may be made in a similar way, such as gooseberry, strawberry, cherry, bkekberry, black currant, 6cc. 907. Another Way. bruise the fruit, and squeeze out all the stalks, then strain fhe pulp through a hair sieve, and add to it cold clear soft water, allowing three quarts of water to one of juice, and to every four quarts of liquor three pounds and a half of sugar ; stir all together till the sugar is dissolved, let it stand till the next day, then skim, and strain it through a cloth, put it in the barrel with some isinglass dissolved in a little of the liquor, or water, put in the corks rather loose- ly, and in about a week close it tight; in three weeks try it, and if fine, bottle it. 908. Lemon Sherbet. To five gallons of clear soft water, take fifteen pounds of sugar, and the whites of five eggs well beaten, boil it quar- ter of an hour, taking off the scum <juite clean; pour it on240 LEMONADE, &C. the rinds of twenty good-sized lemons, pared as thin as possible, and an ounce and half of the best Jamaica gin- ger, sliced or bruised, cover it close, and let it stand till the next day ; then clear it ofF into a cask, with the juice of the lemons strained and boiled half an hour with a pound of loaf-sugar; add half an ounce of isinglass dis- solved in a little of the liquor; close the cask, and in three weeks bottle it. 909. Lemon Sherbet. Pare six large lemons, and boil the peels in six quarts of water with a little ginger quarter of an hour, then add three pounds of sugar ; when cold, put in the juice of the lemons and strain it, and it is tit for use. 910. Coivslip Sherbet. To four gallons of water take twelve pounds of loaf-sugar, put in the whites of four eggs beaten to froth, to clear it; boil it half an hour, taking off the scum as it rises; then pour it on a peck and a half of cowslips, and the rinds of eight lemons; boil the juice of the lemons with half a pound of loaf-sugar, and put in; cover it and let it stand in a very cool place two days : then squeeze out the cow- slips, and strain it into a barrel or drink-pot, reserving a tea-cupful to dissolve quarter of an ounce of isinglass in, put it in the vessel, and close it up. In three weeks bottle it. {Cf* The color and flavor of the sherbet will be much improved, if the cowslips be cut taking a part of the cup as well as the flower, arid leaving the hard substance at the bottom of the pip. Primrose, and rose sherbet may be made in the same way. 911. Orange Sherbet. To five gallons of clear soft water, take fifteen pounds of loaf-sugar, and the whites of six eggs; mix all together while cold, boil it half an hour, taking off the scum, then pour it boiling hot on tire rinds of eighteen of the largestlemonade, &c. 241 Seville oranges, pared very thin ; squeeze the juice from the Seville oranges, and three dozen of large sweet oranges, boil it quarter of an hour with a pound of loaf- sugar ; when both are nearly cold, mix them together and strain it through muslin, put it in the cask with the rinds of the Seville oranges, and half an ounce of isinglass dis- solved in a little of the liquor, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth ; put the coik in loosely, and in a few days close it up tight. In two months try it, and if fine, bottle it. 912. Black Currant Sherbet. To fourteen pounds of currants, fresh gathered and bruised, put twelve quarts of water; let it stand two days, stirring it frequently, then strain it through a sieve, and add four- teen pounds of brown sugar, mix it well with the liquor, and put it in the cask, with the whites of three eggs well beaten, and the shells, one pint of raspberry juice, and half an ounce of isinglass; close it up, and when it has stood one month, try it, ai.d if fine, bottle it, if not, let it stand another month. 913. To Fine Sherbet. Take a sheet of writing paper, roll it up lightly in the form of a scroll, and put it in the cask; it will be fine enough to bottle in a week or ten days. To Jine sherbet, when it. will not fine in the usual way.—To every five gallons take one ounce of powdered gum arabic and one ounce of powdered chalk, mix them well together and put them to the sherbet; leave out the bung for a day or two, then take off the scum, and close it up for a few weeks, when it will be ready for use. 914. Raspberry Vinegar. Bruise eight pounds of raspberries, and pour on them three pints of good gooseberry or sugar vinegar; let them stand twenty-four hours, frequently stirring them with a wooden spoon; put six pounds ot loaf-sugar broken in W242 LEMONADE, &C. large lumps into an earthen vessel, and the fruit and vine- gar into a jelly-bag; let it drop upon the sugar till all the juice is drained out, pressing it gently now and then; pour the liquor into a preserving-pan and let it boil a little over a moderate fire, and when cold, bottle it. When wanted for use, put two large spoonsful in a tumbler of water, and if too sweet, add a few drops of vinegar. This is one of the most useful preparations that can be kept in a house, not only as affording a most pleasant and refreshing beverage, but being of singular efficacy in com- plaints of the chest. A stone jar is the best to boil it in, set in a pan of wa- ter; or it may be boiled in a block-tin pan. Red currant vinegar is prepared in the same way, ad- ding a little more sugar. It may also be made with a mixture of strawberries or raspberries. Black currant and elder-berry vinegar, prepared in the same mauuer, are extremely useful in cases of hoarseness or sore throat. 915. Orgeat. To half a pound of sweet almonds, allow one ounce of bitter almonds, blanch and beat them very fine in a mar- ble mortar ; mix with them gradually a pint of spring- water, then strain through a muslin sieve as dry as possi- sible, add more water to the liquor till properly diluted, then sweeten it with capillaire, or very fine powdered sugar. It should be put in a decanter, and shaken before it is poured out for use. 916. Orgeat for present use. Boil two quarts of milk with a stick of cinnamon, let it stand till quite cold ; blanch two ounces of the best sweet almonds and a dozen bitter ones, pound them together in a mortar with a little rose-water, then mix them well with the milk, adding sugar to the taste; just give it a boil, then strain it through muslin or a lawn sieve; when quite smooth, it will be ready for use. Serve it quite cold in custard glasses. Great care should be taken that the almonds do not oil.LEMONADE, &C. 243 917. Orgeat. Blanch and pound very fine three quarters of a pound of Jordan almonds, and two ounces of bitter ones, with quar- ter of a pint of orange-flower water, to keep them from oiling, stir in it by degrees one pint of rose and one pint of spring w ater, and three pints of milk, and strain the whole through muslin ; add a pint of capillaire or clarified sugar. By adding three quarters of a pound of fine powdered sugar to the almond paste, and putting it down in pots, it will keep several months. When wanted for use, take a piece the size of an egg, and mix it well with half a pint of water, and strain it through muslin. 918. Portable Lemonade. Take half an ounce of tartaric acid, loaf-sugar three ounces, essence of lemon half a drachm; pound the sugar and acid very well together in a marble mortar, gradually adding the essence; mix the whole very well, and paper it in twelve separate parcels, each of which, when mixed in a tumbler of w ater, will make a very pleasant and refresh- ing draught. A drachm of prepared ginger, mixed with the acid and sugar, is t n agreeable and wholesome addition. 919. Orange Juice, very useful to mix with water, when the fresh fruit cannot bs procured. Squeeze from the finest fruit a pint of juice, strain it through fine muslin, and gently simmer with three quar- ters of a pound of double refined sugar, and a little of the rind, twenty minutes; when cold, put it in small bottles. This, and any of the following syrups, mixed with wa- ter, make a very agreeable beverage. 920. Elder Syrup. Pick the berries from the stalks, put them in an earthen pot, cover them, and set them in the oven till they are sufficiently stewed to extract the juice from them ; to every pint of syrup add one pound (if brown sugar, and a littleLEMONADE, &C. 244 ginger, boil it half an hour, and when cold, bottle it, cork it up close, and keep it in a cool place. When to be taken warm at bed-time, as in cases of cold or sore throat, boil a little grated nutmeg, or lemon- peel, in water a few minutes, tlieu add one third part of syrup to two of water. Blackberry syrup may be prepared in the same way. 921. Syrup of Mulberries. Boil some mulberries with very little water, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and to every quart of clear juice put one pound and a half of loaf-sugar; boil it to a syrup over a slow fire. When cold, bottle it. 922. Syrup of Cherries. Stone, and strip from the stalks any quantity of very ripe cherries, and proceed as for mulberries. Syrup from an} kiud of juicy fruit may be made in the same way, adding sugar more or less, according to the sweetness or acidity of the fruit used. 923. Syrup of Lemons. Take strained lemon-juice one pint, put it in a stone jar covered close, set it in a pan of boiling water quarter of an hour; when cold, make it into a syrup with two pounds of loaf-sugar powdered, added gradually to the syrup, cover it close, shaking the jar frequently; strain it, and when cold, bottle it. Or, the juice may be boiled with the clarified syrup, allowing equal quantities of each. 924. Clarified Syrup. Break into small pieces two pounds of fine lump-sugar, put it in a clean well tinned pan, with a pint of cold spring water, stir it till the sugar is dissolved, set it over a moderate fire, beat about half the white of an egg, and put it to the sugar before it gets warm, and stir it well together; when it boils, take off the scum, and keep it boiling till perfectly clear, then strain it through muslin;24£ LEMONADE, &C. put it in a close stopped bottle, and it will keep for months. ft is an elegant article for sweetening at the table, Fruit-syrups are also much better when made with this clarified syrup, than when made with sugar only. 92 o. Capillaire. Beat up six eggs and the shells, put them to three quarts of cold water, fourteen pounds of lump-sugar, and three pounds of coarse sugar, stir it well together, boil and skim it well; when cold, boil it again, skim it as before, and add a pint of orange-flower water; strain it through a jelly-bag, and put it in bottles for use. A spoonful or two of this syrup, either with or without lemon-juice, makes a very pleasant drink. 926. Syrup of Roses. Pour four pints of boiling water on one pound of fresh rose- leaves, or half a pound of dried leaves, cover it close for twelve hours, then strain, and add four pounds of good loaf-sugar; boil it to a syrup, and when cold, bottle it. A table-spoonful or two of this syrup, put into a little water with a little lemon juice, makes a very pleasant liquor. 927. Syrup of Vinegar. Take of good vinegar two pounds and a half, refined sugar three'pounds and a half; boil it gently to forma syrup. This is a very pleasant syrup, and is often pre- ferred to the lemon syrup. 928. Syrup of Clove-gilliflowcrs. Pour t^ree pints of boiling water on one pound of clove- ilowers cut off from the white part, let them stand twelve hours covered close, then strain and boil it gently to a syrup, with five pounds and a half of refined sugar powdered. Syrup of marigolds may be prepared the same way.LEMONADE, &C. 246 929. Syrup of Violets. Pour five pints of boiling water on two pounds of the fresh pelals of blue violets in a glazed earthen vessel, cover it close, and let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain, and add seven pounds of refined sugai. 930. Syrup of Ginger. Boil two ounces of ginger in four pints of water, until the strength is sufficiently extracted, add four pounds of loaf- sugar, and boil till it becomes a thick syrup, take off the scum quite clear; when cold, bottle it. Or, pour five pints of boiling water on two ounces of prepared ginger, let it stand twenty-four hours; then strain it, and add seven pounds of refined loaf-sugar pow- dered ; boil it gently to a syrup. 931. Syrup of Cloves. Put quarter of a pound of cloves to a quart of boiling water, cover it close and set it on the fire, boil gently half an hour, then strain it, and to a pint of liquor add two pounds of loaf-sugar ; clear it with the whites of two eggs beaten up with a little cold water; let it simmer till it is a strong syrup; preserve it in vials closely corked. Cinnamon or mace syrup may be made in the same way. 932. Syrup of Orange-peel. Pour three pints of boiling water on four ounces of the fresh rind of Seville oranges, pared very thin, cover it close, and lei it stand twelve hours, strain and boil it to a syrup with five pounds of good loaf sugar powdered. 933. To keep Lemon Juice. Keep the fruit in a cool place two or three days, squeeze the juice into a basm, then strain it through muslin which will not permit the least pulp to pass; have ready half and quarter ounce vials perfectly dry, fill them with the juice so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonfulLEMONADE, &C. 247 of olive-oil into each, or a little more, if for larger bot- tles. Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bot- tle as you will use in two or three days ; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted, and when that is removed, the juice will be as fine as when first bottled. This will keep good for several years. 934. Toast and Water. Take a piece of the upper crust of bread, about twice the thickness toast is usually cut; toast it carefully till it be well browned all over, but not at all blackened or burnt; put this into a jug, and immediately pour on it as much boiling water as you wish, cover the jug, and let it stand till cold ; the fresher made the better. A bit of fresh- pared lemon-peel, or dried orange-peel, infused with the water is a giateful addition, and makes a very pleasant summer drink; it may be drank freely without danger; but cold wrater, just taken from the pump, cannot. This is decidedly the best way of making it, but if wanted im- mediately :—Toast a small piece of white bread till very dry and brown, but do not burn it, put it immediately into a jug of cold spring water, or distilled water, cover it w ith a plate, and let it stand one hour before you use it. 935. Milk and Water. Put one-third of new milk to two-thirds of spring or dis- tilled water. It is best to drink it cold, but if warmed, it should be by putting warm water to cold milk, and not warmer than new milk. Butter-milk alone, or mixed with milk and water, is exceedingly wholesome, both for children and adults, and may be made quite delicious, by adding a little sugar and grated nutmeg. A table-spoonful of oatmeal, mixed in half a pint of water, is very grateful, and highly useful in allaying thirst.SPOON-MEAT. 248 936. Whey. As whey from cheese-making cannot at all times be pro- cured, it may be made in the following manner:—Take a quart of new milk while warm, put in a little rennet to break it; let it stand in a moderately warm place till the whey looks clear, then put it through a thin cloth, but do not press it, that the whey ma^ be the purer. If made with skimmed milk, it should be warmed to the degree of new milk. 937. Apple Water. Cut two large apples in slices, and pour on a quart of boiling water, cover it close ; in two or three hours strain it, and add a little sugar. It is equally good made with roasted apples. If parents and others who have the care of children, cannot reconcile themselves to the giving them the most wholesome and salutary of all beverage, pure water, the above simple drinks will be found the best substitutes for it. SPOON-MEAT. 938. Oatmeal Porridge, commonly called Water or Thick Porridge. Set some water on the fire, and when it boils, put in some salt, then with a slice stir in by degrees some oatmeal, which should be sprinkled in very carefully, heating or stirring it all the time; when about the consistence of hasty pudding, and sufficiently boiled, pour it on plates. It is generally eaten with cold milk, buttermilk, or treacle, or with cold butter. This is excellent food. 939. Soivins, Mix five pounds of oatmeal with one quart of buttermilk, and five quarts of luke-warm water ; cover it, and place249 SPOON-MEAT. it at a little distance from the fire ; let it stand thirty-six hours, then pour off the liquid and add more water, re- peating the latter operation two succeeding days ; then put some of the meal into a hair sieve, adding plenty of water, and knocking the sieve with the hand to make the finer particles of the meal pass through, leaving the coarser part. Again let it stand eight or ten hours, then pour the water off, and put the remainder into an untinned iron pan with a little salt, adding water to make it about, the thick- ness of good melted butter. Stir it constantly while on the fire, and let it boil till it becomes smooth. 940. Oatmeal Flummery. To three pints of water, put one pint of bruised groats, let it stand two or three hours, then pour off the water, and put as much fresh water on as before, stirring it well; let it stand four hours, then strain it through a hair sieve, or cloth ; boil it, and keep stirring it all the while, put into it a little water now and then as it boils ; when boiling, drop a little on a plate, and if it do not stick to the plate, it is enough, 941. Oatmeal Flummery. Put a pound and half of very fine white oatmeal to steep a day and a night in cold water, then pour it off clear, add- ing as much more water, and let it stand the same time ; then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it be as thick as hasty pudding, stirring it all the time. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water ; pour it on dishes, and serve to eat with new milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. 942. Frumenty. Take some good wheat, just wet it a little, and put it in a coarse bag, beat it with a stick till the external husk will rub oft', then wash it very well in five or six waters, rub- bing it with the hands till it is perfectly clear of the looseSPOON-MEAT. 250 bran; then rub the pan you intend to boil it in with a littlebutter, to prevent the wheat from burning or sticking to the pan ; boil it in plenty of water till quite soft; when done enough, put it in a clean earthen pot, and when cold it will be quite a jelly, in which state it is called in some parts of England creed or creeled wheat; it will keep several days. When to be prepared for eating, put as much of the wheat with milk into a pan as will make it about the consistence of rice milk ; stir it constantly with a wooden slice or spoon, mashing the wheat, as it is very lia- ble to burn ; when near boiling, stir in a small portion of flour, mixed smooth with a little milk ; add pimento, sugar, and salt to the taste; when it boils it will be ready to serve. If preferred, the frumenty may be thickened with the yolks of eggs, beaten with a little milk, instead of flour, and instead of pimento, powdered cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Some currants or raisins, washed and picked very clean, and added to it, is a great improvement. The boiled or creeled wheat is very good eaten warm with cold butter. Scotch barley may be prepared in the same manner. 943. Milk Porridge. To a pint and a half of new' milk put half a pint of water, set it on the fire, and when just ready to boil, stir in about a dessert-spoonful of oatmeal and a little salt mixed with water ; when it boils take it off the fire, and pour it into a basin, either with or without bread. It is very good made with skimmed milk. 944. French Milk Porridge. Stir three large spobnsful of oatmeal into a quart of water, let it stand till clear, then pour off the water and add fresh water, stir it well and let it stand till the next day ; then strain it through a fine sieve, leaving the coarse part of the meal at the bottom, set it on a clear brisk fire, adding about half the quantity of new milk by degrees as it warms; when ready to boil, take it off the fire, adding a little salt. This is very light and proper food for weak stomachs.SPO(‘N-MEAT. 251 945. Egg Porridge. Set a pint of spring water on a clear lire, mix a spoonful of good flour with the yolk of an egg and a little cold water; when the water nearly boils, pour in the mixture, stirring it till ready to boil, by which time it will be of a proper thickness; add a little salt, and pour it into a basin to cool without stirring. 946. Rice Milk. Wash and pick half a pound of rice very clean, soak it twelve hours in cold water, then pour off the waler, and set the rice on the fire with three quarts of milk and a little cinnamon, stirring it frequently; when sufficiently boiled, mix a spoonful of wheat or rice flour with a little water, and stir it well in; add sugar and salt to the taste. 947. Rice Milk. lake half a pound of rice, boil it in a quart of water, with a little cinnamon; let it boil till all the water is absorbed, taking care that it does not burn ; then add three pints of milk, a little salt, and the yolk of an egg well beaten, keeping it stirring while you put them in. When it boils, sweeten it to the taste. 948. Rice Milk the French way. After washing the rice well, set it over the fire half an hour with a little water, then add by degrees some warm milk, till it be sufficiently tender and of a proper thick- ness ; let it simmer very slowly; add salt and sugar to the taste. 949. Ground Rice Milk. Set a pint of new milk on the fire with a little cinnamon, and when scalding hot (not boiling) stir in a large spoon- ful of ground rice, previously mixed smooth with two or three spoonsful of new milk; keep stirring it on the fire till it thickens, but do not let it boil; add a very little salt, and sugar, if preferred.SPOON-MEAT. 252 950. Millet Milk. Wash three spoonsful of millet-seed in hike-warm water, then put it in a quart of new milk with very little salt; let it stew gently till it becomes moderately thick ; add sugar to the taste. 951. Sago with Milk. Prepare a large spoonful of sago by washing it well, then soaking it in cold water an hour, pour oil the water, and add a pint and a half of new milk, simmer till reduced to a pint; sugar or salt may be added. Tapioca may be prepared the same way. 952. Arrow-root with Milk. Seta pint of milk on the fire, when near boiling, pour it upon a dessert-spoonful of arrow-root powder, previously mixed smooth with cold water, pour the milk gently upon it stirring it constantly, return it into the pan and stir it on the fire a minute or two. The powder will mix better if the sugar be mixed with it previous to being moistened with water. Salep, potato-flour, and the patent sago pow der, may be prepared in a similar way. 953. Panada. Put a large piece of crumb of bread into a saucepan, with a quart of water and a blade of mace; let it boil two minutes, then take out the bread and bruise it very fine in a basin ; mix as much water as you think it will require, pour away the rest, and sweeten it to the taste ; put in a piece of butter as big as a walnut, and grate in a little nutmeg. 954. Panada, made in fine minutes. Set a little water on the fire with a glass of sherbet, some sugar, a little nutmeg or cinnamon, and lemon-peel, the moment it boils up, put in some grated crumbs of bread.253 SPOON-MEAT. letting it boil as fast as possible ; when of a proper thick- ness just, to drink, take it off. Panada may also be made by boiling a bit of lemon-peel in water, adding bread- crumbs as before, and when nearly boiled enough, put in some orange or lemon-syrup. All the ingredients must be boiled, for if any be added afterwards the panada will not jelly. 955. Oatmeal Porridge for Infants. Set two-thirds of a pint of milk on the fire, mix one-third of a pint of water with a spoonful of good oatmeal, stir it into the milk just before it boils, let it remain on the fire till near boiling, then pour it from onejug to another seven or eight times, which will incorporate the fine part of the meal with the milk ; set it on the fire, and when again ready to boil, take it off and let it stand in the p3u a little while to fine, then pour it carefully oft, leaving the brown husky parts of the oatmeal at the bottom of the pan. A little salt may be added, and sugar, if approved. Equal quantities of barley-water, or water-gruel and new milk, is very good and proper food for very young infants. 956. Flour Porridge for Infants. To two-thirds of new milk, after it has stood five or six hours, add one-third of spring-water, and set it on a clear fire, and just before it boils, put in a spoonful of good flonr and a little salt mixed smooth with a little water, stir it till near boiling, then pour it out, and it will be ready for use. Infant’s food should never be warmed more than once after it is first made. 957. Bread Porridge for Infants. Pour boiling water on some thin slices of good light white bread, let it stand to cool, then drain oft* the water and bruise the bread very fine, mix it with as much new milk as will make it of a proper thickness; it may be warmed as wauled, but should not be boiled. For very young in- iants, half w ater and half new milk is best to mix with the XSPOON-MEAT. 254 bread, then strain it through a coarse hair sieve. Sugar may be added, but it is better without. Husks, or French rolls are very nice for the purpose, when made of good sound flour. Where milk is too heavy for the stomach it may be made with water only; it should then be boiled. 958. Mush, or, as the Italians call it, Polenta. To two quarts of boiling water with a little salt in it, take a pound of Indian corn meal; let it fall carefully from one hand into the boiling water, while you stir it constantly with a slice held in the other hand ; let it boil three quar- ters of an hour, keeping it stirred all the time, and taking care that it does not burn. When boiled, pour the mush into a deep dish ; it may be either eaten hot with milk, or remain till cold, then turned out of the dish upside down, when it will be quite solid. It is very good echl; also cut in slices and fried in but- ter, to which fried onions and sage with a little parsley may be added, with pepper and salt. A slice laid in a cheese- toaster, with cheese upon it, either sliced or scraped, makes an excellent Welsh rabbit. The mush may be used in a variety of w ays. The Indian corn meal, mixed with a little water and an egg, in a stiff paste and rolled out thin, makes very good biscuits. 959. Hommony. Take of the white Indian corn, skinned and split, put any quantity on the fire with plenty of water, adding more boiling water as it wastes; it requires long boiling, ten oi twelve hours is not too long; when enough, add butter, pepper and salt. It is better to boil it seven or eight hours the day before it is wanted. This is excellent food. 960. Macaroon Rice. Put a pound of rice into five pints of cold water, boil it gently for two hours, when it will be of the consistence ofSPOON-MEAT. 255 thick paste; then add two pints of milk, and two ounces of strong Cheshire cheese, grated fine, season it with pepper and salt. Boil it gently another hoar. It will produce eight pounds of good wholesome food. 961. Savoury Rise. Put one pound of rice into three quarts of boiling water, let it boil twenty minutes, then skim the water, and add one ounce of butter, a little salt, and spices; let it simmer gently on the fire, closely covered, an hour and quarter, and it will be ready to serve. 962. A Mixture of Rice and Scotch Barley. To one pound of rice and one pound of barley, put two gallons of water, let them boil over a slow fire four hours; before it is taken off the fire, add four ounces of sugar, and one of salt. 963. Mucilage of Rice. Boil two ounces of fine rice flour with quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar in a pint of water till like a clear jelly, strain it through a thin cloth ; let it remain till cold ; it affords a pleasant and nourishing jelly. A little cinnamon may be boiled in it, if approved. 964. Vermicelli with Milk. Put your vermicelli in boiling milk, and stir it quickly to prevent its becoming a paste or doughy. Let it be well salted, or well sugared. Half an hour is sufficient to break the vermicelli. 966. Frumenty, or Furmity, as it is sometimes called. Take a quart of ready-boiled wheat, tw o quarts of milk, a quarter of a pound of currants or raisins, clean picked and washed; stir these together and boil them; beat up the yolks of three or four eggs, with a little salt, nutmeg, and two or three spoonsful of milk, and add them to the wheat;2jC SPOON-MEAT. stir them together for a few minutes, ami sweeten to the taste. 966. Turkish Yourt. Let a small quantity of milk stand till it be sour, then put a sufficient quantity of it into new milk, to turn it to a soft curd. This may be eaten with sugar only ; or both this and the fresh cheese (see No. 883) are good eaten with strawberries and raspberries, as cream, or with any sort of preserved fruit, 967. Preserves with Cream. To any quantity of raspberry, gooseberry, or other kind of jam, mix in some good cream according to the taste. If cream cannot be procured, new milk thickened over the fire with a spoonful of rice or potato flour, or half a spoon- ful and the yolks of two eggs, will be a very good substitute for it. This is a very simple and pleasant dish, taken with bread. 968. The best and most simple way of making Water Gruel. Set a pan of water on the fire, then mix as much oatmeal in a basin with cold water, as will make it a proper con- sistence; when the water is hot (but not boiling), pour it upon the meal and water, and stir it well; take out the spoon, and leave it to settle about two minutes, then pom it carefully into the pan, leaving the coarse part of the meal at the bottom of the basin ; set it on the fire, stirring it till it boils, and in five minutes you will have excellent smooth gruel. Do not put any salt in, unless intended to be eaten with pepper and butter. It is very good without anything ; a little sugar and nutmeg may, however, be added, if preferred. A mistaken idea almost generally prevails, that water gruel is not nourishing ; it is, mi the contrary, a light, cleansing, nourishing food, either in sickness or in health, both for young and old.257 SPOON-MEAT. 969. Rice Gruel. Wash, and soak two large spoonsful of rice in cold water an hour ; pour off the water, and add a pint and quarter of new milk and a little cinnamon; stew it gently till the rice is sufficiently tender to pulp through a sieve, return the pulp and milk into the pan, with a very little salt, and let it simmer on the tire ten minutes; if too thick, add a little more milk or water very gradually, so as not to pre- vent it from simmeiing Add sugar to the taste. 970. Groat Gruel. Pick some groats very clean; boil them in spriug-water till quite tender and thick, then reduce it with boiling water to '.he consistence of gruel, letting it boil up with some currants, nutmeg, and sugar to the taste. Sherbet or lemon-juice may be added, il approved. Groats, when creed, are very good boiled in milk with a little salt. 971. Onion Gruel. Slice an onion and boil it in plenty of water till tender, then add a spoonful of oatmeal mixed with cold water, a lump of butter, some pepper and salt; let it boil a few minutes, and eat it with bread. 972. Arroiv-root Gruel. Pour a pint of boiling water on a dessert-spoonful of arrow- root, mixed smooth with a little cold water, stirring it well, return it into the pan and let it boil a few minutes, adding sugar and lemon-juice, or raspberry vinegar. By adding more of the powder an excellent jelly may be made, (see No. 555) Arrow-root is also very good prepared .with milk as above, adding a little sugar only. 973. Currant Gruel. Make a quart of water-gruel, strain, then boil it a few minutes with two table-spoonsful of currants till they are quite plump ; add nutmeg and sugar. X 2SPOON- ’MEAT. 258 973. Barley Water. To two quarts of water, put two ounces of pearl barley ; when it boils, strain it very clean, then put fresh water to it with a bit of lemon-peel, and let it boil till reduced nearly one half, then strain it off, and add lemon-juice and sugar to the taste. It is very good made with common barley, and less apt to nauseate than the pearl barley. 975. Tapioca Jelly, Wash the tapioca in three or four waters, then soak it in freshwater five or six hours, and simmer it in the same till it be quite clear; add lemon-juice and sugar, or raspberry vinegar. 976. Another way of preparing Arrow-root. Take two large table-spoonsful of preserved black currants to a quart of boiling water, cover the pan, and let them stew gently half an hour, or till all the strength is extract- ed from them, then strain the liquor, and set it on the fire ; when it boils, mix a spoonful of arrow-root with cold water, and pour the boiling liquor upon it, stirring it well, return it into the pan, and boil it gently a few minutes, adding sugar if requisite. 977. The following Receipe for a weak Stomach, as recommended by Sir John Sinclair, has been found extremely efficacious. Beat up in a basin a fresh laid egg; add six table- spoonsful of cold water, then twro table-spoonsful of farina (flour) of potatoes, (see No. 585), to be thoroughly mixed with the w ater and egg ; then pour as much boiling water upon it as will make it into jelly, stirring it well. It may be taken for breakfast, either alone, or with the addition of a little milk and good moist sugar; and not only for breakfast, but at any other time, in cases of great sto- machic debility, or consumptive disorders. The food is light, easily digested, and extremely wholesome and nou-SPOON-MEAT. 259 risliing. Bread, biscuit, or rusks, may be taken with it, as the stomach gets stronger. 978. Bread Jelly. Toast a slice of bread very dry and brown, then pour as much water on as will cover it, let it simmer or stew very gently, and as the water boils away keep adding more, and simmer gently for four hours, it will then be a complete jelly ; strain it, and when you want to use it, add a little lemon-peel, or sugar, and a little new milk. This is very light nourishing food for a weak stomach. 979. Gloucester Jelly. Take rice, sago, and pearl barley, of each an ounce, wash them very well in warm water, add one ounce of harts- horn shavings and one ounce of eringo-root, simmer the whole with three pints of water till reduced to one, and strain it. When cold, it will be a jelly; of which a large spoonful may be taken, dissolved in milk or sherbet, several times a day. A little sugar may be added. 980. Isinglass Jelly. Boil an ounce of isinglass, forty Jamaica pepper corns, and a bit of brown crust of bread in a quart of water till reduced to a pint, then strain it. This is a pleasant nu- tritious jelly ; a large spoonful may be taken at any time, in sherbet and watei, milk, or tea. Sugar may be added, 981. To mull Milk. Boil a quart of new milk live minutes, with a stick of cin- namon, nutmeg, and sugar to the taste, then take it off the lire and let it stand to cool, beat the yolks of five eggs very well, adding to them a little cold cream, then pour the milk gradually upon the egg and cream, stirring it all the time, return it into the pan, and stir it on the fire till it thickens, but not to boil, then pour it from one jug to another the same as mulled beer, and it will be ready for use. Serve it up with dry toast or biscuit.260 MISCELLANEOUS. 982. To mull Sherbet. Set half a pint of sherbet, and half a pint of water, or ginger beer, on the fire, beat three eggs very well, adding a little cold water ; when it boils, pour it by degrees upon the egg, stirring it, then return it into the pan, with sugar and nutmeg to the taste, stirring it a little on the tire, but do not let it boil; strain and serve it with toast. Ginger-beer atone may be midled the same way. MISCELLANEOUS. 983. To make Coffee a simple and easy ivay. Pour a quart of boiling water on a tea-cupful of fresh- ground coffee, set it on the fire, and keep it on the point of boiling for three or four minutes, holding it over the fire and taking it off at pleasure, so as to keep up the temperature, but to prevent any violent ebullition ; pour out a cupful two or three times, returning it into the coffee-kettle; set it on the hob a few minutes till the coffee clears. Coffee may be made at the table in a coffee-pot with a strainer in it, by infusion only, in the proportion of one cup of coffee-powder to six cups of boiling water, and it requires only a very few minutes to have good, clear coffee. 984. Another Way. To six ounces of fresh-ground coffee, put a pint of cold water, two raw eggs with the shells, and a large tea- spoonful of mustard-flour; mix them well together in a pan, then pour in full three quarts of boiling water, set it on the fire, let it boil a few minutes, pour a little out two or three times, returning it into the pan, then cover it261 MISCELLANEOUS. close, and let it stand on the hob to settle, and in a few minutes yon will have rich and excellent coffee. 985. Another Way. Put the ground coffee into a vessel with a strainer, and pour the water on it quite cold ; cover it close, and plunge this vessel into another filled with boiling water, which must be kept at the boiling point till the process is com- pleted. This method preserves the fine flavour of the coffee. Dr. Kitchener, in his last edition of The Cook’s Oracle, has the following observations on Coffee, which he re- ceived from an intelligent traveller, who had passed some years on the Continent. “ Coffee, as used on the Continent, senes the double purpose of an agreeable tonic, and an exhilerating bever- age, without the unpleasant effects of wine. Coffee, as drank in England, debilitates the stomach, and produces a slight nausea. In France and Italy it is made strong from the best Coffee, and is poured out hot and trans- parent. In England it is usually made from bad Coffee, served out tepid and muddy, and drowned in a deluge of water, and sometimes deserves the title given it in the ‘ Petition against Coffee, 4to., IG74, p. 4/ abase, black, thick, nasty, bitter, stinking, puddle water.” 986. Coffee Milk. Boil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, quarter of an hour ; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass to clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to fine. This is very suitable for a weak stomach. 987. Substitute for Coffee. Two-thirds of good rye to one of wheat, roasted and pre- pared in the same way (as coffee. A very little salt may be added when the coffee is made.262 MISCELEANE0U3. 9S8. Substitutes for foreign Tea. Agrimony, Sage, Balm, Peppermint, and similar spicy plants, the flowers of sweet Wood roof, Pimpernel Bose, the leaves of Peach and Almond trees, the young leaves of Bilberry, Black Currant, and common Raspberry, the blossoms of Sloe-tree or Black-thorn, Red Sage, Wild Thyme, John’s Wort, Mint, Meadow Sweet, La- vender, Rosemary, Wild Marjoram, Wood Betouy, Ground Ivy, Hyssop. The whole, or any of these herbs, mixed according to the taste, are very excellent as a substitute for tea, they should be gathered dry, and picked from the stalks, then dried in the shade. 989. Chocolate. Never make chocolate till it is wanted; therr borf equal quantities of milk and water, scrape the chocolate fine, and in quantity according to the strength required ; take the milk and water off the fire, put in the chocolate with sugar to the taste; mill it well and rapidly, that it may be served with the froth on it, and completely incorporated with the milk. Fry’s Chocolate in Powder, sold in tin cannisters, is an extreme!) useful and convenient preparation, as a cup of excellent chocolate can be prepared in one minute by the following simple process :—Put a large tea-spoonful into a tea-cup with some sugar, and as much boiling water as will just moisten it, rub it smooth in the cup with a tea- spoon, then add a little more boiling water, still stirring it that the chocolate may be well mixed, the cup may then be filled up, and cream added. 990. To clarify Sugar. Put half a pint of water to every pound of sugar, beat up some whites of eggs with it, allow ing one with the shell to every six pounds of sugar, put it on the fire when the sugar is dissolved, and when it rises in boiling, sprinkle in263 MISCELLANEOUS. a little cold water, which should be kept at hand in a basin, in case the sugar should rise rapidly ; let it rise three times without skimming it; the fourth time skim it well, throwing in a little cold water each time, till the white scum ceases to rise, then strain it through a flannel or cloth strainer, saving the scum for use; when a certain quantity of scum is taken off, it may be clarified, the latter scum may sweeten pies, or be used in some other way. Sugar will not ferment, nor be fermented, without yeast, being dissolved in four times its weight of water, that is, four pounds of water to one of sugar: when once the fermentation begins, it continues to the end. 991. A new Method to clarify Sugar. Take ten pounds of fine loaf-sugar, break it in pieces, and put it in a pan with two quarts of water, in which beat up one pound of ivory-black, and two whites of eggs whipped up, melt it in a moderate heat, but take care the sugar does not boil; add a little cold water occasionally, to prevent ebullition; when the whole is dissolved, pass it through a flannel bag; at first it will run quite thick, but by returning it for a time or two into the bag, it will at length become as clear as spring water. This syrup is kept for the most delicate purposes of confectionary. 992. To clarify coarse brown Sugar. Suppose you take fifty pounds, put it in a pan that will hold a third more than the required quantity, and pour in twenty pints of water, but first well mixed with five whites, of eggs; take five pounds of small branch charcoal, finely pounded, mix it in the pan on the fire, and let it boil, it will look as black as ink ; if it rises too fast, add a little cold water; skim, and then strain it through a bag, at first it will be black, but continue to strain it till quite clear; it must repeatedly be returned, till it comes out as clear as the clarified loaf sugar. Sugar, prepared according to any of the above me-MISCELLANEOUS. 261 thods, is greatly to be preferred to sugar in its raw state, in making syrups, jellies, &c. 993. Degrees of boiling Sugar. Confectioners have seven essential degrees of boiling sugar, or bases of their art: 1st, thread, large or small , 2nd, pearl; 3rd, the blow; 4th, the feather; 5th, the ball, large or small; 6th, the craek ; 7th, caramel. No. 1. A Thread.—Dip the tip of your fore-finger into the syrup, apply it to the thumb, on parting them yon will find a thread, which will break at a little distance, and remain as a drop on the finger, this is the small thread ; if the thread be longer, it is the great thread. No. 2. A Pearl.—When you separate the thumb and finger and the thread reaches, without breaking, from one to the other, it is the small pearl; if the finger and thumb be stretched to their utmost extent, and the thread leiuaiu unbroken, it is the large pearl. No. 3. A Blow—may be known, by dipping the skim- mer into the sugar, shaking it, and blowing through the holes ; if, in doing this, sparks of light or bubbles be seen, we may be snre of the bloiv. No. 4. A Feather.—-The larger and greater quantity of bubbles, when blown through the skimmer, are the large feather, No. 5. A Ball.— Dip your finger into a glass of cold water, then into your sugar, and into the water again, if you make the sugar into a small ball, it is theswm// ball; when larger and harder, it is the great ball. No. 6. A Crack.—Dip the same finger into the sugar, and on taking it out, if the sugar that adheres to it breaks *iu your finger, with a slight noise, and does not stick to it, it is a crack. Boil it again, and if it break on plung- ing your finger into the water, it is the great craek; you must be very attentive, for it passes rapidly to caramel, if not attended to in a minute. No. 7. A Caramel.— It breaks, as just observed, making a noise, like glass; when the sugar is at the crack} add to it five or six drops of lemon-juice, to preventMISCELLANEOUS. 265 its graining. When boiled, take it from the fire, and set the bottom of the pan into cold water, to prevent its burn- ing. The production of caramel is attended with some difficulty, and great attention is necessary; the lemon- juice must be used cautiously, as too much would spoil the sugar: if lemon be not at hand, use a few drops of vinegar, honey, or butter: any acid or grease will smooth the sugar, as the sugar has no longer any moisture: it re- quires a strong fire, but it must be to the body of the sugar only, and not to the sides of the pan, as it is very liable to burn, which will completely spoil it. The edges of the pan must be kept clean with a small clean sponge. 994. Apple Biscuits. \lb. pulp of apples ; lib. powdered sugar; lib. flour; lib. starch powder (potato flour); four whites and one whole egg, and essence of cloves.—Take as many apples as will produce a pound of pulp ; bake them in a quick oven%til! quite soft, then pass them through a hair sieve ; put them in a copper pan, adding the sugar and an egg, with a little essence of cloves; whisk it over a gentle fire till quite hot, then take it oft* and whisk it cold ; afterwards take four w hites of eggs and whisk them to a strong snow; put your paste in and mix them well together ; sift the starch powder and flour, and mix these in together as lightly as possible; dress them round with a spoon on paper, and bake them in a moderate heat; iceiug the biscuits before you bake them ; viz. beat up the whites of eggs to a stroim froth, put a little over the biscuits, and then sift fine sugar on them. 995. Chesterfield Biscuits. Mb. sugar; Mb. flour; 16 eggs; 1 oz. caraway seeds. Put the yolks of the eggs, sugar, and seeds into a bowd, beat them very well; then beat the whites to snow, mix them in while the flour is sifted lightly over; bake them in paper cases ; when done, cut them in long thin slices, and dry them in a cool oven. Y266 MISCELLANEOUS. 996. Devonshire White Pot Pudding. To a pint of cream put four eggs, beaten with a little halt, some grated nutmeg, or a little cinnamon, and some sugar, then slice very thin the crumb of a penny-loaf, put it into a dish, pour the cream and eggs to it, a handful of jar- raisins boiled, and a little fresh butter: bake it lightly. 997. Currant, Cherry, Strawberry, and Raspbary Waters. Mash any of the above fruits, straining the juice through a sieve, and afterwards through a flannel bag; water must then be added, with syrup (No. 924) to the taste; strain it again through the bag, and serve it up quite fresh. But the liquor is never so transparent or clear, as when the fruit is boiled in the water. 998. Lemon Essence. Rasp the lemons very thin ; to quarter of a pound of raspings allow one pound of sugar, powdered as fine as possible; mix it well till it is all of a colour and well in- corporated, press it down into small jars, tie white paper over it, and then leather or bladder; and in one month it will be ready for use. 999. Quintessence of Lcmoiupccl Take best oil of lemon one drachm, strongest rectified spirit of wine two ounces, introduced by degrees, till the spirit kills and completely mixes with the oil. This elegant and useful preparation possesses all the fragrance and flavour of the freshest lemon-peel. A few drops on sugar will in- stantly impregnate with the flavour anything you may wish to use it for. 1000. Cocoa Nut. Grate some cocoa nut on a dish, sift fine powdered sugar over it, then another layer of grated nut, witfi sugar, till the dish is filled. This is a very nice dessert dish.MISCELLANEOUS. 267 1001. Damson Drops. Bake some damsons, but not to break them, then skin and stone them, pulp them through a sieve, sift some common loaf-sugar, and mix as much with the pulp as will make it very stiff; drop it off the end of a knife on paper, and put them in a stove to dry ; when quite dry, turn them on a sieve; w et the outside of the paper, and they will come off vtry easily ; put them in the stove again, or a very cool oven, till they are quite dry and hard. Keep them in layers on paper, in a box. 1002. Raspberry Drops. Boil some raspberries and take out the seeds and skins ; to a pound of juice, put a pound of sifted sugar and the whites of two eggs, beat the sugar and eggs together, put in the juice by degrees, then beat them two hours with a whisk; drop them on writing paper lightly rubbed with butter ; let them stand in the sun, or before a very slowr fire, till quite dry. 1003. Raspberry Drops. Tick out any bad raspberries that are among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you please, and when mash- ed and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit you first put into the pan ; mix it well off the fire until perfectly dissolved, then put it on china plates, and dry it in the sun. As soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a canister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates; and, when dry, put them in boxes, with paper between each layer. 1004 Green Gooseberry Cheese. Take six pounds of green gooseberries, before they begin to ripen, cut off the ends quite clean, and put them in cold water for an hour or two ; then take them out and bruise them in a wooden bowl, put them in a brass pan over a Hear fire, stirring them till tender; when quite of a pulp, add four pounds and a half of loaf-sugar pow'dered, andM/St'ELLANEOUS. 268 boil it till very thick and of a good green colour, stir- ring it often ; then pour it into moulds. i005. Rhubarb Jam. An excellent jam may be made with a mixture of tno- thirds of red currants to one third of garden rhubarb; it may also be made with the same proportion of gooseber- ries before they are quite ripe; it also answers very well with raspberries: one pound of sugar to two. of fruit will be found quite sufficient, boiling the fruit three quarters of an hour before the sugar be added, and afterwards till it becomes like pulp or jam. 1006. Rhubarb Cream, or Fool, as it is sometimes called. Peel and wash a quantity of rhubarb, put it into a pan with a little water, lemon-peel, and a bit of cinnamon, and as much moist sugar as will sweeten it, set it on a moderate fire, and reduce it to a marmalade, pass it through a hair sieve, and, when cold, mix with it a pint of cream, or two eggs beaten up with a pint of new milk. 1007. Rhubarb Sherbet. Peel and boil six or eight sticks of rhubarb ten minutes in a quart of water ; strain the liquor through a sieve, add- ing the rind of a lemon pared very thin, and two table- spoonsful of clarified sugar ; let it stand five or six hours, strain it through muslin, and it will be ready to drink. 1008. To clarify Isinglass. Break your isinglass into small pieces with a hammer, wash it in several waters, and to four ounces add six pints of water; reduce it by boiling one third, skimming it care- fully ; then strain it through a silk sieve : it is then ready to use for making whisked jellies, creams, &c. 1009 To clarify Honey. The best kind is clarified by merely melting it in a waterMISCELLANEOUS 2f>9 Y 2 bath, and taking off the scum ; tlie inferior kind by dis- solving it in water, adding the white of an egg to each pint of the solution, and boiling it down to its original con- sistence, skimming it frequently. 1010. Everton Toffy, Warm, and rub a pan with a little butter, put in a pound of brown sugar, with three table-spoonsful of water, let it boil on a slow fire till it becomes a smooth thick syrup, then stir in half a pound of butter; when it has boiled about half an hour, drop a little on a plate, and if it becomes hard, and leaves the plate quite clean, it is enough : pour it about half an inch thick on a dish or tin well buttered. From twenty to thirty drops of essence of lemon stirred in, after it is taken off the fire, gives it a pleasant flavour. 1011. Treacle Toffy. Rub your pan with a little butter, pour in the treacle, and let it boil about an hour, then pour it into a basm warmed and rubbed over with butter; w hen cool, roll it up in sticks and fold it in clean paper. Before it is poured into the pan, a little essence of peppermint may be added. 1012. Candied Horehound. Boil some horehound till the juice is extracted, then add to it sugar that has been previously boiled to a candy, stir it on the fire till it begins to grow thick, then pour it into a paper case dusted with fine sugar, and cut it into squares. 1013. Ginger Drops. Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste ; then mix an ounce of prepared ginger with one pound of loaf sugar; wet the sugar with a little water, boil all together to a candy, and drop it on paper the size of mint drops. 1014. Lemon Drops. Grate three large lemonc, with a large piece of double re-270 MISCELLANEOUS. fined sugar, then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. 1015. Peppermint Drops. Rub a brass, or block-tin saucepan with a little butter, then put in half a pound of loaf-sugar bruised, with four table-spoonsful of water; let it boil briskly ten minutes, then stir in it a tea-spoonful of essence of peppermint; drop it on writing paper, or pour it on plates rubbed with a little butter. 1016. Sugar Milk. Boil some fine sugar in milk, and flavour it with lemon- peel, or bitter almond. It is a suitable refreshment for children. 1017. Sugar Water. Sweeten boiling water with loaf-sugar. It is a frugal beverage, much used in France. Isinglass, boiled in milk, sweetened with a little loaf- sugar, and strained, is a very nourishing beverage. 1018. To preserve Milk. Provide some perfectly clean and dry bottles, draw the milk from the cow into the bottles, or instantly put it in when milked, and as they are filled, immediately cork them, and tie the corks down with twine or wire; set them in a pan with a little straw at the bottom, and between the bottles ; fill it up with cold water, and heat the water gradu- ally till it begins to b( i!, then immediately take the fire from under (if a fixed boiler), or take the pan off the fire, and let it stand undisturbed till quite cold ; then take the bottles out, wipe them dry, and pack them with straw or saw-dust in a box or hamper, and set them in a cool cel- lar, or the coolest part of a ship. Milk preserved in this manner, although six rhonths in271 MISCELLANEOUS. the bottles, will be as sweet as when first milked from the cow. 1019. To preserve Eggs. Eggs may be preserved in a small way in bottles or other vessels ; they must be put in quite fresh, the bottle then tilled with lime-water, a little powdered lime sprinkled in at the last, and then the bottle closed. To prepare the lime-water, put four gallons of water to three pounds of slaked quick-lime in a covered ressel; when clear, it is ready for use. 1020. Sliced Eggs. Take eight or ten eggs boiled hard, cut them into thick round slices, and put them into sauce made as follows; cut three large white onions into dice, or round slices, fry them white in butter, when nearly done, dredge them well with flour, and moisten them with some good milk and a few spoonsful of cream, keep stirring with a wooden spoon to prevent them from burning: when your sauce is done grate a little nutmeg into it, and season with a little salt and pepper, &c., then add the eggs, and serve it up imme- diately with sippets round the dish. 1021. Eggs with Cream. Take a dozen of eggs boiled hard, cut them in two, take out the yolks and rub them through a hair sieve; chop the w hites very fine, and make a sauce with cream ; when your sauce is well done, add a lump of butter, then the chi pped whites; season it well and pour it into your dish, cover the whole with the yolks; baste with a little butter, and brown with a red hot shovel. 1022. Eggs with Butter. Break some fresh eggs into a dish, without injuring the yolks, then ppwder them over with a little pepper and salt; then to a dozen eggs, fry quarter of a pound of butter, over a moderate fire, when quite done, which you mayMISCELLANEOUS. 272 know by the ear, ponr if over the eggs, let them stand a minute or two, then pour the eggs carefully into the fry- ing-pan, keeping it a proper distance from the fire, lest the eggs should stick ; when done at the bottom, use the salamander for the top, till they are turned white; then dish without breaking them, and pour over a little vinegar. 1023. Omelet with Sorrel. Make small omelets with about two eggs each ; have some stewed sorrel ready to put in before you roll them up. Serve hot. 1024. Omelet with Sweatmeats. Make small omelets mixed with a little Hour ; introduce some sweetmeats before you roll the omelet, lay them on the cover of a stew-pan turned wrong-side up, to keep them hot; when done, powder a little fine sugar over them, and glaze them a fine colour with a salamander. 1025. Potatoes Boiled arid Broiled. When the potatoes have boiled slow till nearly done, pour the water from them and dry them well; then put them on a gridiron over a clear brisk fire ; turn them till they are brown all over ; serve them up dry, with melted butter or brown gravy in a boat. Or—when nearly boiled enough as above, put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, shake them about often (for fear of burning) till they are brown and crisp. It will be an improvement if, previous to frying or broil- ing the potatoes, you flour and dip them in the yolk of an egg, and then roll them in fine sifted bread-crumbs; “ they will then deserve,” says Dr. Kitchener, " to be entitled Potatoes full dressed.” 1026. Potato Snow. The potatoes must be free from spots, and the whitest you can get; put them on in cold water with some salt in it /273 MISCELLANEOUS. and let them simmer very slowly; when they begin to break, drain the water well from them, and dry them ex- ceedingly well till they fall to pieces; rub them through a wire sieve as quick as possible, on the dish they are to be sent up in, and do not disturb them afterwards. 1027. To make Vegetables tender. When pease, French beans, &c. do not boil easily, it has usually been imputed to the coolness of the season, or to the rains. This popular notion is erroneous. The diffi- culty of boiling them soft arises from an excess of gypsum imbibed during their growth. To correct this, throw a small quantity of carbonate of soda into the boiling water with the vegetables. 1028. German Cabbage Soup. Take a firm white cabbage, wash it well, and mince it, let it sweat on a slow fire in a little butter ; when it begins to be tender and to be a little reduced, moisten it with veget- able bioth, adding pepper and salt to the taste, and if required a little more butter may be stirred in ; w hen the soup gets a good colour, put in bits of bread cut the size of a penny, and it is ready for the table. 1029. Caleeannon. Is an Irish dish, and is made by boiling and mashing greens, young cabbage, or spinage, and then mixing them with good mealy mashed potatoes, butter, pepper, and salt, and pressing it into a basin or mould well buttered ; set it in a hot oven five or six minutes; then turn it out on a dish. In this dish two-thirds should be potato. Plain Caleeannon is made in cottages with infinitely less ceremony, and it is quite as good. Boil the greens or cabbage till nearly done; put the peeled raw potatoes to them; when done, drain the water very well from them ; dry them a little, and with pepper, salt, or shred onion, and a good piece of butter, beat them up together.274 MISCELLANEOUS. 1030. Mushrooms. Put some water or vegetable broth in a stew-pail, with pepper, salt, parsley, green onions, and a handful of chop- ped mushrooms well cleaned; boil them ov€*r a stove or slow tire till thick ; beat six eggs or more according to your quantity, and mix all together. Then butter some small cups, put in the mixture and bake them quick ; turn them out on a dish, and serve them with mnshrooms stewed 'iite. 1031, Remoulade. ound the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs in a mortar with a little sour cream; or the raw yolk of an egg, a spoonful of made mustard, peppej, salt, Cayenne pepper, one spoonful of vinegar, or two of oil; rub it through a sieve, and it is ready, 1032. To serve Butter as a small Dish. Have two wooden fluted spoons, such as are used for lifting butter; wash and boil them when wanted, dry them well, and rub them over with a bit of butter to clean them per- fectly, then lightly roll up between the spoons, bits of but- ter in the form of corks, fir-concs, small pine-apples, shells, &c.— ;or roll it in crimping rollers;—work it through a sieve or colander;—or squeeze it through a very clean cloth strainer, on the dish you intend for the table ; it may also be squirted in little tufts, or like small coral branches ; it may be scooped with a tea-spoon to look well; gar- nish with curled parsley. 1033. To purify and bleach Yeast. Bad yeast may be improved by mixing in it a little flour and sugar with a little warm water, or by bleaching it, that is, beating up the yeast with water equal in quantity to itself, and the white of an egg to a quart of yeast; let it stand twehe hours, then pour off the tlnn part, and what remains will be improved yeast.MISCELLANEOUS. $75 J034. A Substitute for white Wine-whey. set half a pint of miik on the fire, the moment it boils, pour n half a pint of sherbet, let it boil up, then set the sauce- >an aside till the curd subsides, but do not stir it; when it ooks tolerably clear, add near a pint of boiling water, md let it stand a little longer; then strain it through a awn sieve or muslin, and it will be ready for use. A jttle sugar may be added. 1035. Vinegar, or Lemon Whey. Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon-juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute with hot water to an agreeable sharp acid; add a bit or two of loaf- sugar. 103G. Alum Whey, Boil two quarts of skimmed milk over a slow fire with three drachms of alum till it becomes whey. 1037. Mustard Whey for Rheumatism. Take of the best Durham mustard-seed three ounces, boil it gently in three pints of water till reduced to one ; then add one pint of skimmed milk, this produces the whey ; strain it through a sieve, and take a tea-cupful lukewarm, night and morning. 1038. Another Way. To a pint of milk, when very near boiling, sprinkle in gra- dually flour of mustard until it curdles ; let it stand a few minutes, then strain it off. This whey warms the stomach and promotes perspiration. 1039. Cream of Tartar Whey. To a pint of milk; when very near boiling, sprinkle in gra- dually two tea-spoonsful of cream of tartar, stirring it till clear, then strain it. This whey is very cooling, and is $ powerful diuretic.276 MISCELLANEOUS. 1040. Buttermilk Whey Is made by pouring boiling milk on some rather sour but- termilk, letting it stand to settle a few minutes, then strain- ing it. 1041. Treacle Posset. Put two table-spoonsful of treacle into a pint of milk when near boiling, stirring it briskly over the fire till it curdles ; take it off the fire, and after standing a few minutes strain it, and take it warm immediately on going to bed. It pro- motes perspiration, and is readily taken by children. It may also be made the same way with buttermilk instead of milk. 1042. Refreshing Drinks in a Fever. Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little wood- sorrel, into a stone jug, or tea-pot, having first washed and dried them ; peel thin a small lemon slice it, and put it in and a bit of the rind; then pour in three pints of boiling water, sweeten, and cover it close. Apple-tea is also excellent in fevers. 1043. Another most pleasant Drink. Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cup of water, and mash them : in the mean time boil two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon-peel; then add the cranberries, and as much fine sugar as will leave a sharp flavour of the fruit, boil all for half an hour, and strain it off. 1044. Another Fever Drink. Boil three ounces of currants, when cleaned, two of raisins, stoned, and an ounce and a half of tamarinds, in three pints of water, till reduced to a quart; strain it, put in a bit of lemon-peel, and let it stand an hour. 1045. Compound Barley Water. Take of simple bailey water, (No. 973) two pints, raisins,277 MISCELLANEOUS. stoned, two ounces; figs, sliced, two ounces; liquorice root, sliced and bruised, half an ounce ; distilled water oife pint. In boiling, add the raisins first, then the figs, and lastly the liquorice, a short time before it is finished, when the strained decoction should measure two pints. These liquors are to be used freely, as diluting drinks in fevers and other acute disorders. A little lemon-juice will be found a pleasant addition. 1046. A cooling Drink. Wash two ounces of barley in hot water, then boil it in five pints of water till the barley opens, adding quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar, then strain it. 1047. Sherbet. This celebrated oriental beverage, about which so much has been said and written, is the most simple diluent imaginable. A decoction of oatmeal and sugar seasoned, when cold, with rose-water, is the brief receipefor making this liquor. 1048. A Substitute for Milk and Crtam. Beat up a fresh-laid egg in a basin, and pour boiling tea gradually over it, stirring it rather quickly, to prevent its curdling. It is difficult from the taste to distinguish it from good cream. 1049. Almond Emulsion. Sweet almonds, blanched, one ounce, double refined sugar, three quaiters of an ounce, distilled water two pints.— Beat the almonds with the sugar till they form a smooth paste; add the water by degrees, and when well incor- porated, strain the liquor through muslin. Great care should be taken that the almonds are free from any rancid taste. This is a most useful beverage to soften coughs, and may be taken freely as a frequent drink : it will also be found useful as a common drink for children, in fevers, inflammations, &c, ZMISCELLANEOUS. 578 1050. Apple Bread. A very light, pleasant bread is made in France, of a mix- ture of apples, (when pared, cored, and baked ; or stewed with very little water), and flour, in the proportion of one part of apples to two of flour, employing the usual quan- tity of purified yeast, which must be beat up in the flour with the warm pulp of the apples, the sponge may then be considered set; let it rise eight or ten hours, then make it up, and bake it in long loaves like large rolls: little or no water is necessary. 1051. Peppermint Water. Dissolve six ounces of loaf-sugar in a quart of water, set it on the fire, and let it boil gently eight or ten minutes ; drop eighty drops of essence of peppermint on a lump of sugar the size of a large walnut, put it in a jar and imme- diately pour on it the boiling water and sugar, stir it a little, then cover it close, and let it stand till quite cold ; then strain it through a double fold of flannel, and keep it in a bottle for use. Cinnamon Water and Aniseed Water may be pre- pared in the same way. 1052. Seed Water. Take two spoonsful of coriander seed, and one of caraway seed, bruise them well and put them in a (juart of boiling water; let it stand a little, then strain, ani beat the yolks of two eggs and mix with the water, then add a little cin- namon water and loaf-sugar. 1053. Perfumed Lavender Water. Take oil of lavender one drachm ; ambergris one drachm ; oil of bergamot half a drachm ; musk five grains; mix all well together with one pint ot rectified spirit of wine.279 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 1054. Substitute for Asses* Milk. Mix two spoonsful of boiling water, two of milk, and an egg well beaten ; sweeten with pounded white sugar-can- dy. This may be taken twice or thrice a day. Another;—Take eringo-root, pearl-barley, and sago, of each half an ounce, liquorice-root, sliced, three drachms; distilled water, one quart; boil them together oter a slow lire to a pint, then straiu it, and add a pint of fresh cow’s milk. Another;—Put an ounce of hartshorn-shavings into a quart of boiling barley-water, reduce it by boiling to little more thau a pint; add two ounces of candied eringo- root, sliced, and a pint of new milk ; boil it quarter of an hour longer, then strain it off for use. 1955. Baked Milk, for Consumptive Persons. Set half a pint of new milk in a moderate oven all night; it will turn thick and brown. It must be drank the first thing in a morning, and the same quantity prepared in the same way for evening. This simple remedy has been found highly beneficial, when regularly attended to for a length of time. 1059. Iceland Liverwort or Moss; an excellent strengthening Medicine. Boil two ounces of this herb (previously washed), in a gentle heat, with two quarts of distilled water for fifteen minutes ; two drachms of liquorice root sliced may be add- ed before it is taken off the fire. A tea-cupful of this decoction should be taken about three times a day; or, quarter of an ounce of the herb may be boiled in half a pint of milk for ten minutes, and taken for breakfast or280 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. supper; or, if chocolate be preferred, it may be made with a decoction of the herb as above (without the liquorice) in the usual manner, instead of water or milk ; or it may be prepared with half an ounce of cocoa, in half a pint of distilled water. The best forms for administering tins herb in pulmonary consumption, are the jelly, made with the powder termed the farina, combined with cocoa, or the decoction. To make it as a jelly, mix as much cold wa- ter with a dessert-spoonful of the powder as will make a soft paste, then pour on by degrees half a pint of boiling water, or milk, stirring it briskly ; after boiling about ten minutes it will become a smooth thin jelly ; sugar, cur- rant jelly, liquorice, lemon-juice, or cinnamon may be added, to make it palatable. 1057. Decoction of Marshmallows. Take four ounces of marshmallow roots, bruised, four ounces Muscadel raisins, stoned, and seven pints of water, boil down to five pints; strain the decoction, and when settled, pour off the clear liquor. The mucilage in marsh- mallow roots is very abundant; this decoction is therefore to be considered merely as an emollient. It is to be ob- served, that this decoction must not be made too thick and viscid, by too long boiling or infusion, for then it becomes nauseous and disagreeable, of course it will not be taken in sufficient quantity. 1058. Gum-arabic Emulsion. To two drachms of powdered gum-arabic, take of sweet almonds, blanched, and double refined sugar, each half a drachm, of barley-water one pint; dissolve the gum in the warm barley-water, and when nearly cold, pour it upon the almonds and sugar, which must have been previously icell beaten together till perfectly smooth ; the liquid must be added gradually till well mixed. This emulsion is principally used for diluting and cor- recting acrimonious humours. 1059. An excellent Restorative. Boil half an ounce of isinglass with a quart of new milk tillm USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. reduced to a pint; add some sugar, and two bitter al- monds, shred small. Take this at bed-time, but not too warm. 1060. Elder Electuary. Take five pounds of the juice of elder-berries, and one pound of good brown sugar, or honey; let it simmer gently till like thick syrup. Take a spoonful mixed with a little water at bed-time. This preparation is good for a cough, and keeps well 1061. Marmalade, or Electuary for a Cough. Beat three ounces of Malaga raisins to a fine paste with the same quantity of sugar-candy, add half an ounce of the conserve of roses, twelve drops of oil of vitriol, and ten drops of oil of sulphur ; mix the whole well together, and take a small tea-spoonful night and morning. This will be found an excellent remedy for a cough, 1062. Draught for a Cough. Beat two fresh eggs, mix them with half a pint of new milk warmed, two table spoonsful ot capillaire, the same quan- tity of rose-water, and a little nutmeg. Observe, it must not be warmed after the egg is added. Take a tea-cupful at bed-time and early in the morning. 1063. For a Cough. Take liquorice-root scraped and sliced, quarter of a pound, aniseeds rubbed and bruised two ounces, the best raisins stoned, and figs sliced, of each half a pound; boil them in a gallon of spring water with a small handful of hyssop, and a very large handful of coltsfoot, till reduced to half the quantity, then strain it, and stir in three large spoonsful of honey : take it the first thing in a morning, and three times more in the course of a day—-about four table-spoonsful at once, rather warm* 1064. Another, when attended with difficulty of breathing. Boil quarter of a pound of linseed in two quarts of spring l 2280 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. water, strain it on half a pound of figs sliced, and quarter of a pound of brown sugar-candy ; add lemon-juice, or a few drops of vinegar: take two table-spoonsful frequently. Linseed or bran-tea, sweetened with honey or sugar-can- dy, is excellent to be used as common drink by one trou- bled with a cough. 1065. Linseed Cough Syrup. Boil gently two ounces of linseed, two ounces of liquorice root sliced, quarter of a pound of the best raisins, and one ounce of Italian juice, in two quarts of water; after it has boiled a little, set it where it will just simmer, cover- ed close, for three or four hours, then strain it through a sieve, and return it into the pan, with two ounces of sugar-candy and the juice of a large lemon ; let it simmer quarter of an hour longer, and take a little at any time when the cough is troublesome. 1066. Cough Mixture. Take Mucilage of Acacia, three fluid ounces ; Syrup of Red Poppy, six fluid drachms; Sulphuric Acid dilated, one fluid drachm and half. Take half a table-spoonful when the cough is troublesome. Another—Take Mucilage of Acacia, two fluid ounces ; Syrup of Red Poppy, four drachms; Camphorated Tincture of Opium, two drachms. One tea-spoonful of the Linctus to be taken frequently. Another—Take Simple Oxymel, and Mucilage of Acacia, of each two fluid ounces; Oxymel of Squills, and Tincture of Camphor, of each half an ounce. Take a dessert-spoonful now and then, when the cough is troublesome. 1067. White Cough Mixture. Mix half an ounce of spermaceti with the yolks of two eggs, adding half an ounce of powdered white sugar-can-281 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. d), then add one drachm of tincture of opium, and five ounces, or ten table-spoonsful of water; a wine-glassful to be taken when the cough is troublesome. 1068. For a Consumptive Cough. Stir two tea-spoonsful of rye flour into a small tea-cupful of water, and when well mixed,, drink it off*. Repeat it several times a day, before meals, or at any time when the stomach is not loaded. 1069. For a Consumptive Cough. Take quarter of a pound of the herb maiden hair, two ounces of elecampane, two ounces of liquorice-root, one pound of coarse sugar, and a large handful ofhorehound ; simmer the whole in six quarts of water till reduced to two, then strain and bottle it for use. Take a common- sized tea-cupful morning and evening. 1070. For an obstinate Cough. Take mustard mixed up for eating, treacle, and olive-oil, of each two spoonsful; mix all well together. An adult may take two tea-spoonsful when going to bed. 1071. Fora Cough. Mix with half a pound of honey, or black currant jam, one ounce of elecampane powder, one ounce of liquorice powder, and one ounce of sulphur : take a tea-spoonful of this mixture at any time. Another—Take six ounces of Italian liquorice (that stamped Salazzi is the best) cut in small pieces, put it into an earthen jar, with quarter of a pint of the best vinegar; simmer till the liquorice is dissolved, then add two ounces of the oil of almouds, and half an ounce of laudanum ; mix the whole well together, and take two large tea-spoonsful when going to bed, and one tea-spoonful three or four times a day if required. Another—One ounce of tincture of rhubarb, one ounceUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 282 of paregoric, one ounce of oil of almonds, and one ounce of street spirit of nitre. Another—Mix three table-spoonsful of vinegar with the same quantity of treacle, or honey, a tea-spoonful of aether, and sixty drops of laudanum ; take a table-spoon- ful at bed-time. Another— Boil half a pint of good vinegar with a pound of brown sugar till it becomes a thick syrup, then mix in it half an ounce of paregoric, and take a spoonful at any time when the cough is troublesome. 1072. Syrup for Coughs, Spitting of Blood, f$c. Take six ounces of comfrey roots, and twelve handsful of plantain leaves; cut and beat them well, strain out the juice, and with an equal weight of sugar boil it to a syrup. An infusion of tormentil leaves, or a decoction of ihe roots, is very useful for spitting of blood : bran-tea also, has been found highly useful. 1073. Syrup of Angelica-root for the Influenza. Boil down gently for three hours a handful of angelica- root in a quart of water, then strain it off’, and add liquid Narbonne or best virgin honey sufficient to make it into a balsam or syrup ; take two tea-spoonsful every night and morning, as well as several times in the day- II attended with hoarseness or sore throat, add a few drops of sweet spirit of nitre. 1074. For a Hoarseness or Difficulty of Breathing Put a fresh-laid egg into a small jar with the juice (strain- of two large lemons, or as much as will entirely cover the egg ; keep it covered quite close, and set it in about the same degree of heat as if it stood on the chimney-piece; it will require about twenty-four hours to dissolve the shell; when dissolved, the skin may easily be removed by a pointed knife, then beat up with it two ounces of white sugar-candy powdered fine, or two ounces of honey; put it in a bottle, and keep it closely corked. Take a tea- spoonful at any time.283 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 1075. For a Hoarseness. Take two table-spoonsful of oatmeal, two of brown sugar, and about an ounce of fresh butter, mix them with a spoon till like paste, then pour on it by degrees half a pint of boiling water, stirring it till quite smooth ; drink it warm, when going to bed. Another, for a Cold and Hoarseness—Mix a fresh- laid egg, well-beaten, with two ounces of powdered sugar- candy, the juice of a lemon, and a large spoonful of sweet spirit of nitre : take a tea-spoonful at any time. 1076. For a Hoarseness. Boil two ounces of flour of sulphur in a quart of water till reduced to a pint; when settled, pour off the clear part upon half an ounce of liquorice-root sliced, and quarter of an ounce of coriander seed bruised; cover it close, and take a tea-spoonful or two at any time. Or, make a strong decoction ol coltsfoot, strain it, then boil it to a syrup with sugar-candy, is excellent. A strong decoction of horehound, strained, and boiled to a syrup with a pound of coarse sugar to a pint, or three quarters of a pound of sugar-candy. Or, chew slices of horse-radish like lozenges : it is a very speedy remedy for hoarseness, loss of voice, and catarrhal complaints. 1077. For an Asthma. Slice a Turkey fig in two, put a tea-spoouful of sulphur inside and eat them in that state. Brooklime-tea—about a pint to be drank rather warm, the first thing in the morning. This remedy has been found highly beneficial. Another—Take three quarters of an ounce of senna powdered, half an ounce of flour of sulphur, tw o drachms of powdered ginger, and half a drachm of saffron; mix them well with four ounces of honey, and take a large tea- spoonful night and morning. This remedy has also been found very useful.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 284 1078. For the Hooping Covyh. Dissolve one grain of emetic tartar in three ounces of spring water; one tea-spoonful to be taken every two hours. Let the common drink be, almond emulsion, barley water, linseed, hyssop, or bran-tea, sweetened with honey, or treacle. Another—Dissolve a scruple of salt of tartar in a gill of water, and ten grains of cochineal finely powdered, sweeten this with fine sugar ; give to an infant the fourth part of a table-spoonful four times a day ; and from four years old and upwards a spoonful may be taken. 1079. Embrocation for the Hooping Cough. Take of emetic tartar, two drachms; tincture of cantha- rides, one drachm; oil of wild thyme, three drachms ; mix well in a bottle, and rub a dessert-spoonful on the chest every night and morning. Equal quantities of amber oil and spirit of hartshorn, mixed and used as an embrocation, and nibbed on the spine night and morning, is also an excellent remedy. 1080: Sm.Al Pox. This complaint generally comes on with shiverings, pain in the head and back, sickness, and the ordinary symp- toms of fever : the eruption appears about the fourth day of the fever, and the pustules come to maturity about the tenth or eleventh day. On the first appearance' of the complaint, to keep down the feverish symptoms, and to prevent as much as possible the eruption from being great, a little opening medicine will be proper; also from fifteen to twenty drops of antimonial wine in a dose of saline mix- ture, every six or eight hours, till the feverish symptoms are abated; observing a low and cool diet, and drinking plentifully of lemonade, toast and water, cowslip-tea, or barley water, rather warm; the almond emulsion may also be taken freely. The patient should be kept cool. Cleanliness in this, as in all cases of fever, should be particularly attended to.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 285 1081. Measles. This complaint generally begins with shiverings, succeeds! by a feverish heat, a severe head-ache in adults, and hea- viness in children, frequent sneezing, running of the eyes and nose, swelling of the eye-lids. The patient should be kept moderately cool, without being exposed to the cold air, observing a low diet, and keeping the body gently open ; the almond emulsion, toast and water, barley water, lemonade, and linseed-tea, may be drank freely; mari- gold tea is also much esteemed in this complaint; and if the measles do not come out properly, a little saffron-tea given warm at bed-time, has often a good effect. When the eruption begins to disappear, opening medicine should be given about thre^ times a week, as in small-pox and other eruptive fevers; but the patient should not be too soon exposed to the cold air. Ten drops of balsam of copaiya taken on a little brown sugar night and morning, is generally found useful in re- moving the cough which so often remains alter the measles. Iceland Mass (No. 1056) has been given to children with great success, after the measles, &c., one ounce boil- ed in a quart of water, and strained through muslin; two table-spoonsful to be given three times a day, either in a little milk, or with six or eight drops of elixir of vitriol. 10S2. An Infusion of Senna. Take an ounce of senna, two drachms of aniseeds, one drachm of ginger, two ounces of raisins, three ounces of prunes, or French plums; pour on a quart of boiling water, and let the infusion stand in a moderate heat for two hours, then strain it. Ar* adult may take quaiter of a pint; or, if required, more may be taken with safety. This is a very safe and easy purge for children. A little sugar may be added if preferred. A mixture of sulphur, crei m of tartar, and treacle, is also a very useful and proper opening jnediciue for child- ren : or, a little sulphur given in a few spoonsful of w arm milk, when going to bed, three or four evenings together.286 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 1083. Epsom Salts. This is a very speedy laxative, often operating within an hour, is more regular and uniform than almost any aper ient; in quarter of an hour after taking it, its operation should be encouraged by drinking half a pint or more, of warm water, tea, or thin gruel. The best way of covering the taste of Epsom salts, is to put a lump of sugar and a bit of lemon-peel cut thin into the hot water, before you stir the salts in it, to which a few grains of powdered gin- ger may be added. A dessert-spoonful of the salts will generally be sufficient, especially if it be taken in the morning, an hour before breakfast. Or,—Pour two quarts of boiling water on quarter of a pound of Epsom salts, and drink a tea-cupful every morn- ing for nine or ten mornings together. A large spoonful, or two if necessary, of treacle, stirred in half a pint of warm gruel, taken regularly, at bed- time, seldom fails to keep the bowels in good order. 1084. For Dysentery. Take a sheet of writing-paper, cut it in slips, boil it in a pint and a half of milk till reduced to a pint; take it at twice. It has been given with very good effect to infants for watery gripes, &c. For common drink in dysentery, dissolve tw© ounces of powdered gum-arabic in a quart of water; swecteu to the taste. Another—Roll several folds of flannel round the body from the chest to the waist; drink water in w luch rice has been boiled and carefully strained. This simple remedy is considered a certain cure. 1085. Blackberry Powder. Gather the berries when full grown, but before they turn black; pick them, and dry them in a cool oven ; keep them from the air in a dry situation: when wanted for use, beat them to powder and take as much as will lie on a shilling, in simple cinnamon water, night and morning.2S9 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. This is an admirable remedy for the flux, and may be taken three times a day, if the disease be violent. It is also an excellent remedy for watery gripes in infants. A decoction of the roots of blackberry bushes, is a safe, and speedy remedy for dysentery. Another.—Boil a handful of the leaves of marshmal- low in a pint of water, about five minutes, then add a pint of skimmed milk ; let it boil up, then pour it into a jug or lea-pot, and drink a small tea-cupful every half hour. This simple remedy has been repeatedly tried, with great success. 1086. Remedy for Cholera Morbus. Take a few corks, and burn them to a charcoal, until they can be bruised as fine as lamp-black. Two large 1ea- spoonsful of this powder, to be mixed in half a small tea- cupful of equal parts of new milk and water : a. dessert- spoonful of this mixture to be taken morning and evening, and if the complaint be violent, it may be taken oftener. A tea-spoonful twice a day is enough for a child. Let the common drink be marsh-mallow tea. Charcoal, made from maple-wood, is also used in the same way. 1087. For Cholera Morbus. After having taken warm fluid three or four times, to eva- cuate the contents of the stomach, drink freely of a decoc- tion of oaten bread : toast an oat-cake carefully till it is as brown as coffee, but not burnt; pour on it boiling water, cover it close, and keep it warm. It should have the appearance of weak coffee. 1088. An excellent Remedy for Diarrhea, Take as much pomegranate powder as will lie on a shil- ling, put it in half a pint of boiling milk, and take a tea- cupful two or three times a day. 1089. Another. Take about half a pound of fine flour, make it into a hard A aUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 290 ball, tie it in a cloth as tight as possible, and boil it three or four hours, then take it out of the cloth and dry it in a cool oven ten or twelve hours. When to be used, grate it fine, and moisten it with a little water in the same man- ner as starch ; pour it into boiling water in which cinna- mon and mace have been boiled, make it about the con- sistence of water gruel, and add sugar to the taste. It may be prepared with milk, if preferred, leaving out the mace. 1090. Another. Take of rhubarb, and columbo, in powder, equal parts ; take three grains every three hours, in a little marsh- mallow tea. 1091. Another, for Obstinate Diarrhea. After having taken the above powder without producing the desired effect, take two scruples of bark in powder, ten grains of compound powder of chalk with opium ; form a powder, and take it three or four times a day. 1092. Colic. Take half a drachm ol rhubarb in powder, brown it a little before the fire, then add to it a very little powdered ginger, mix it with a little sugar and warm water, or a little pep- permint water. 1093. For Worms in Children. Dry some tansey and powder it; mix it with treacle, or honey, and give a large tea-spoonful four or five mornings together. Or, give a dessert-spoonful of oil of turpentine, mixed with coarse sugar or honey. N A dessert-spoonful of olive-oil alone has frequently been given to children, as a remedy for worms, with very good effect. It should be taken daily, for a week or Iwo, 1094. To expel Worms. Take Balm leaves, gathered fresh, dried, and powdered ;USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 291 mix them up with honey to the consistence of paste; three ounces of the paste to be taken fasting, and afterwards six ounces of honey, in three doses, at intervals of an hour each, after the paste. 1095. For the Tape-Worm. Oil of turpentine is considered almost a specific in every species of worms ; one or two drachms at intervals, for children of three years of age, and five drachms for elder children, and more for adults. It should be taken fasting, and strict abstinence observed during its use. It is recom- mended by some medical men to begin with a full dose early in the morning, and repeat it eveiy hour for three or four hours, as circumstances may require. Mix it with mucilage of gum-arabic, cinnamon-water, and simple syrup. In case it should not operate on the bowels as an aperient, in the course of two or three hours, a dose of castor oil is recommended. This treatment should be renewed every four or five days, till the patient is relieved. It is frequently taken mixed with honey, but the following method has often been adopted for children:—Beat up five drachms and a half of rectified oil of turpentine, with the yolk of an egg, and some sugar with a little water, or common syrup ; two doses are generally sufficient. Essence of bergamot, or essential oil of naphtha, in doses of one or two drachms, mixed with honey, have also been found efficacious in destroying worms. 1096. For the Gripes in Infants. Take an equal quantity of oil of nutmegs and oil of worm- wood, mix very well, and apply it to the navel and chest, on a warm flannel. A flannel dipped in brandy, and warmed a little, and laid over the belly, frequently gives immediate relief. 1097. For Costiveness in Children. Boif half a pint of new milk with three quarters of an ounce of coarse brown sugar, then add two table-spoons-292 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. ful of olive-oil, and give it warm. This innocent mixture may be given to adults with very good effect, bv increas- ing the quantity. A large fig eaten every night at bed-time, will also be found very useful. 1098. For Costiveness in Children. Take a table-spoonful of powdered loaf-sugar and the same of water, boil it a few minutes, then add a table- spoonful of castor-oil, mix well, and give a tea-spoonful to a very young infant, every two hours, till it operates ; and more in proportion to the age of the child. When the stomach of an infant is disordered by being over-fed, so as to produce symptoms of convulsion, the timely application of the above simple remedy will be found very efficacious. 1099. Convulsion Fits. Bruise some garlic and steep it in spirit of wine; dip some pieces of brown paper in it and apply to the soles of the feet—it may also be applied to the spine and chest. This seldom fails. Some fresh peony roots scraped, and ap- plied to the soles of the feet, often give immediate relief. Garlic Tea—has frequently been given to children with very good effect. That, with a warm bath, and small doses of castor-oil, prepared as in No. 1098, will gener- ally answer every necessary purpose. 1100. Tincture of Asnfoetida, for Convulsion or Hysteric Fits. Infuse one ounce of asafoetida, bruised, and two large spoonsful of wood-soot (that which is rather hard and shining) in a pint of spirit of wine for three or four days, shaking the bottle frequently; then strain it off', put it in a bottle, and keep it close corked. Three drops may be given to an infant in a tea-spoonful of the mother’s milk, repeating it once or twice daily, as occasion may require, and increasing a drop each time, but not to ex- ceed ten; reduce the quantity again a drop each time.$93 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. Aii adult may take from thirty to sixty drops, in rua or chamomile tea. This remedy has been repeatedly tiied with great suecess. ‘1101. For the Thrush. Wet a soft linen rag with a little milk rather warm, dip it in soot, and rub the mouth very well with it, then wash the mouth well with milk : by repeating this two or three times a cure has frequently been effected. Or, rub the mouth with a little powdered loaf-sugar and borax. A tea-spoonful of the syrup of black currants given fre- quently to children for the thrush, has been found useful. Prepare the syrup as follows:—Bruise, and squeeze the currants through a clotlr strainer; to one pint of juice, take a pound and half of good loaf-sugar; when the sugar is dissolved, boil it to a syrup. If preferred, the sugar may be dissolved in half a pint of water, boiled to a syrup for a few minutes, the juice then added and boiled. 1102. Wild Mallows. This weed is perhaps amongst the most valuable of plants that ever grew. Its leaves stewed, and applied wet, will almost instantly cure, any cut or bruise, or wound of any sort. Poultices made of it will cure sprains such as those of the ancle; fomenting with it will remove swellings; and its operation in all cases is very quick. A good handful ought to be well boiled and stewed in a pint of water, till reduced to about half a pint. The mallow may be used directly after it is gathered, merely first washing off the dirt. It should be gathered like other herbs, just before it comes out in bloom, and dried and preserved just in the same manner as other herbs. The root is pretty nearly as efficacious as the branches; and may be dried and preserved in the same maimer. 1103. For an Inflammation in the Stomach or Bowels. Take an ounce of cool-drawn linseed-oil, half a pint oi A a 2294 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. Cream, half an ounce of borax reduced to powder, and half a pint of the juice of house-leek ; mix all well together, and take a table-spoonful every half hour. If it produces drowsiness, the medicine is taking the de- sired effect. 1104. Saline Mixture for Fever. Take Carbonate of Potash, .three drachms; Citric Acid two drachms ; Distilled Water seven fluid ounces; Syrup of Saffron two fluid drachms. An adult may take three table-spoonsful every four hours. 1105. Saline Mixture, ivhen to be taken in a state of effervescence. Take Carbonate of Potash, .three drachms; Distilled Water tive fluid ounces; Syrup of Saffron .. . .one fluid draclnn ; Cinnamon Water ... .half an ounce. Two table-spoonsful of the above, with one of lemon- juice, may be taken every four hours. 1106. Another Saline Draught. Pound very fine in a mortar, fifteen grains of borax, and quarter of a drachm of cream of tartar, with ten drachms of almond emulsion, then add one drachm of common syrup, and the same quantity of cinnamon water. This mixture will be found useful in fever and irritation of the stomach ; but when the stomach is so irritable as to eject this, and other medicines, ten drops of laudanum may be added to the draught. 1107. For the Head-ache. Take of ether two fluid drachms, spirit of wine with a little camphor two ounces, and water four ounces ; pour a little ii-fto the palm of the hand, and press it to the forehead or temples for several minutes, without removing the handUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 29j from it. Repeat it as occasion requires. Or, dip a lit tie linen several folds in a little of the lotion, and bind it tight to the forehead and temples, renewing it as it dries; the relief is generally immediate. Washing the forehead four or five times a day in cold spring water, will frequently relieve a head-ache. To hold a little scraped horse-radish in the palm of the hand, closing it till it be warm, then smelling at it will often give relief. A roasted onion applied to the top of the head and bound on, will frequently relief the most violent pain. 1108. For the Tooth-ache. Mix an equal quantity of tincture of bark and tincture of myrrh, put half a tea spoonful into a little hot water, and wash the mouth with it frequently, keeping it in as long as possible: a bit of lint may also be dipt in the tincture and applied to the tooth. Another.—Mix a few drops of oil of cloves with a little laudanum, wet a bit of lint or cotton with it, and apply it to the affected tooth. This is an excellent remedy. Fifteen or twenty drops of laudanum taken in a little water, and the feet put in warm water at bed-time, will frequently give relief. A roasted onion applied to the ear, or the cheek on the side affected, will often relieve the pain of tooth-ache, or pain in the face. A small portion of sal-prunella applied to an aching, decayed tooth, will frequently relieve the pain. To clean the teeth with the Spanish snuffcalled Sibelia, is considered a radical cure for the tooth-ache. Regular- ly washing well behind the ears every morning, with cold water; or, washing the mouth very well every night and morning with salt and water, or lime-water, is an excellent preventive. A mixture of honey with the purest charcoal, will prove an admirable cleanser of the teeth.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 296 To use the flour of sulphur as a tooth-powder, every night on going to bed, and if possible after dinner, is i n excellent preservative for the teeth. 1109. Another Remedy for Tooth-ache. Alum reduced to an impalpable powder, two drachms; nitrous spirit of ether seven drachms; mix and apply it to the tooth with a bit of lint or cotton. 1110. Another. To a table-spoonful of spirit of wine, add the same quan- tity of sharp vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of common salt; mix them well, and hold the liquid in the mouth, so that it can enter the cavity of the tooth. llll. For a Pain in the Face, attended with Swelling. Mix two .ounces of spirit of hartshorn with one ounce of camphorated oil, and three tea-spoonsful of laudanum ; after rubbing the part affected ten minutes with this mix- ture, apply a piece of warm flannel. Or,—put quarter of a pound of fresh butter into a small saucepan over a gentle fire, and when it begins to melt, add two table-spoonsful of rose-water, stirring and mix- ing it well; rub the part affected with this ointment quite hot, three or four times a day, till the swelling disappears. If much swelled and inflamed, a fomentation of chamo- mile flowers and poppy-heads, will be found an excellent application, using it every two or three hours; and at bed- time, apply a poultice of oatmeal and soft water, well boiled. 1112. Bleeding at the Nose. Apply a cloth dipped in vinegar, or cold water in which sal-prunella has been dissolved, to the back and sides of the neck; or, w ash the nose, temples, and neck with vinegar.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 297 Or, dissolve an ounce of powdered alum in a pint of vinegar, apply a cloth dipped in this to the temples, and put the feet in warm water. A little writing paper ap- plied to the roof of the mouth, has sometimes been recom- mended. 1113. For the Ear-ache. Apply a roasted onion to the ear, or a roasted fig. If caused by worms, drop a little warm milk into the ear. 1114. Ward's Essence, or Embrocation for the Croup, fye. Take four ounces of the best rectified spirit of wine and four ounces of camphor, let them be perfectly well mixed, then add four ounces of the volatile spirit of sal-ammoniac. If both the spirits be not good, the proper quantity of camphor will not be absorbed by them. The above essence is very useful as an embrocation for sprains, rheumatism, quinsey, and some kinds of sore throat; it has also been very successful for the croup ;— the throat to be bathed with the essence, then a piece of flannel dipped into it and tied round the throat. This has given relief in very violent paroxysms. 1115. Salt a Cure for Epilepsy. A little salt put on the lips of a person in an epileptic fit, is a most effectual remedy. 1116i For the Jaundice. Break a fresh-laid egg, without beating it, into a wine- glass of spring water, and take it the first thing in a morn- ing, and again at bed-time. Or, take half an ounce of Venice soap, and oil of ani- seed sixteen drops, mix well together, and make it up into middle-sized pills ; take three or four, two or three times a day. 1117. Another. Infuse eight ounces of artichoke-leaves in a quart of bar-298 fcSEFtJL FAMILY RECEIPTS. ley water for twelve hours, then strain off the liquor, and take quarter of a pint every morning and night. 1118. Heart-burn. Drink a glass of soda-water, or lime-water; or a glass of water with a little magnesia or chalk in it. A cup of cold chamomile-tea is also very useful in this complaint, ora tea-spoonful of vinegar. Caraway comfits usually relieve the heart-burn in a very short time. 1119. For the Hiccup. When caused by acidity in the stomach, take twenty drops of sal-volatile with a tea-spoonful of magnesia, in a glass of mint-water. When it is caused by improper food, an emetic will be necessary : if the spasms be violent, a tea- spoonful of ether with eight drops of laudanum, in a glass of cold water, will prove the best remedy. In children, hiccup often arises from acidity in the stomach ; in that case, magnesia and rhubarb, ill a little mint w ater, will be most proper. Or, for the convulsive hiccup, take one drop of the oil of cinnamon on a lump of sugar, keep it in the mouth till dissolved, then gently swallow it. The common hiccup may in general be removed, by taking a pinch of snuff, or any thing that will cause sneezing. 1120. For the Gravel. Take spirit of turpentine, spirit of sweet nitre, balsam of copaiva, half an ounce of each : mix, and take from fifteen to twenty-five drops on loaf-sugar, morning and evening. Daucus (wild carrot) tea is also an excellent thing for the gravel, drank rather warm as common drink; the daucus roots should be gathered in August, or the begin- ning of September. 1121. On siva llowing a Wasp. Instantly put into the mouth a tea-spoonful of commonUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 299 salt. Tliis will immediately not only destroy the wasp, but heal the sting. 1122. For the Sting of Wasps, Bees, and Gnats. Apply olive-oil immediately, or cut an onion in two round the middle, put some salt on it, and apply it: com- mon salt alone, moistened with a little water, will give immediate relief. Prussian blue, dissolved in soft water, is an excellent remedy for the stings of insects. Powdered chalk, mixed with a little water to the con- sistency ol paste, is also an useful application; or, a little honey. 1123. Fcr Swallowing Pins. It is strongly recommended to those who have unfortu- nately swallowed a pin, to take four grains of tartar emetic, dissolved in warm water, and immediately after- wards to drink the whites of six eggs. The coagulated mass will not remain in the stomach more than a few minutes, and the remedy has been known to remove twenty-four pins at once. 1124. Remedy for frequent Vomiting. Boil the parings of apples in milk till it curdles, then strain and drink it warm. 1125. To prevent Sea-Sickness. I)o not go on board immediately after eating; and when on board, eat moderateiy at each meal, take strong exer- cise, with as little intermission as possible; keep much on deck, and do not watch the motion of the waves. It will be found of great service to take the elixir of vitriol, dropped on lump-sugar, or in peppermint-water. The fumes of vinegar may be inhaled with great benefit. Never drink common water on board, but lemonade, soda-water, &c. A small bag o[saffron worn at the stomach, it is said, will prevent sea sickness,300 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. Iii case of sickness and vomitting, a small tea spoonful of sulphuric ether may be taken now and then, in a little water, and apply some of it to the temples and nostrils. Soda-water, chamomile, or ginger-tea, may be taken in the intervals of vomiting, acquiring the habit of walking and standing upright as much as possible. The ancient remedy for sea-sickness, after the stomach had been cleared by vomiting, was acid fruits; also bread and vegetables soaked in vinegar. If symptoms of vomiting appear, they may frequently be remedied by lying down on the back, and keeping per- fectly still. 1126. For the Prevention of Infection from Typhus Fever. Dr. J. C. Smith obtained five thousand pounds from Parliament, for the following recipe:—Take six drachm* of powdered nitre, and six drachms of oil of vitriol; mix them in a tea-cup, by adding one drachm of the oil at a time. The cup to be placed during the preparation on a hot hearth or plate of heated iron, and the mixture stir- red with a tobacco-pipe. The cup to be placed in differ- ent parts of the sick room. 1127. Fumigating Powder. Take of cascarilla bark, reduced to a coarse powder, cha- momile flowers, and aniseed, equal parts; put some hot cinders on a shovel, sprinkle two ounces of this powder gradully on it, and fumigate the sick rooms. It takes off all smell, and keeps oft’infection. Hot vinegar sprinkled on the floor of a sick room, or corks laid on hot cinders in a shovel, and carried about the room frequently, will be found useful. 1128. Cautions in visiting Sick Rooms. Never enter a sick room in a state of perspiration (to remain for any time), for when the body becomes cold, it is in a state likely to absorb the infection. Nor visit a sick person (if the complaint be of a contagious nature), with301 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. an empty stomach. In attending a sick person, do not stand betwixt the sick person and any fire that may be in the room, as the heat of the fire will draw the infectious vapour in that direction. 1129. For Inflammation of the Eyes, or removal of Film. Boil an egg hard, and divide it in the middle, take out the yolk very clean, and while the egg is hot, fill the cavity with very clear honey, and after putting the parts of the egg together, wrap it in fine muslin, and let the honey fil- ter through it into a clean vessel, being careful to exclude dus:, &c. The honey thus clarified, should be dropped into the eye three or four times a day, till the disorder be re- moved. 1130. For Inflammation in the Eyes. Beat the white of a new-laid egg to a froth with a little rose-water, lay it between fine thin linen, and apply it to the eye, changing it frequently. Another, when caused by lime, fyc.—Beat up a lit* le oatmeal with sour butter-milk ; apply it as a poultice in a little muslin, as occasion requires. 1131. For a Blood-shot Eye. Boil some hyssop, and apply it as a poultice.—For a bruise on the eye, apply a decayed apple; or conserve of roses. Ii32. For Weak antf Weeping Eyes. Make a strong decoction of chamomile, boiled in milk ; with this let the patient’s eyes be bathed several times a day, as warm as can be suffered without uneasiness. Per- sons almost blind have been cured by persevering in the use of this prescription. It is proper, however, to observe, that frequently five or six weeks’ bathing is necessary. B b302 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPfS. 1133. Excellent Eye Water. Take ten grains of white copperas and half a pint of spring water, shake the bottle well till the copperas is dissolved ; when it has stood a day or two, clear it off into another bottle for use, keeping it well corked. B^the the eyes when inflamed, with soft linen rag night and morning. 1134. Methods of Treatment for recovering Persons apparently drowned or dead. Cautions.—I. Lose no time.—2. Avoid all rough usage. —3. Never hold the body up by the feet.—4. Nor roll the body on casks.—5. Nor rub the body with salt or spirits.—6. Nor inject tobacco-smoke or infusion of tobacco. Restorative Means, if apparently drowned. Send quickly for Medical assistance, but do not delay the following means: Convey the body carefully, with the head and shoulders supported in a raised position, to the nearest house. Strip the body, and rub it dry; then wrap it in hot blankets, and place it in a warm bed in a warm chamber. Wipe and cleanse the mouth and nostrils. In order to restore the natural warmth of the body, move a heated covered warming-pan over the back and spine. Put bladders or bottles of hot water, or heated bricks, to the pit of the stomach, the arm-pits, between the thighs, and the soles of the feet. Foment the body with hot flannels; but, if possible, immerse the body in a warm hath as hot as the hand can bear without pain, as this is preferable to the other means for restoring warmth. Rub the body briskly with the hand ; do not, however, suspend the use of the other means at the same time. In order to restore breathing, introduce the pipe of a common bellows, (where the apparatus of the Humane So- ciety is not at hand) into the nostril, carefully closing the other and the mouth ; at the same time drawing downwards.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 303 and pushing gently backwards the upper part of the wind- pipe, to allow a more free admission of air ; blow the bel- lows gently, in order to inflate the lungs, till the breast be a little raised ; the mouth and nostrils should then be set free, and a moderate pressure made with the hand upon the chest. Repeat this process till life appears. Electricity may be employed early by a medical assistant, Inject into the stomach, by means of an elastic tube and syringe, half a pint of warm brandy and water, or wine and water. Apply sal-volatile or hartshorn to the nostrils. If apparently Dead from intense Cold. Rub the body with snow, ice, or cold water. Restore warmth by slow degrees; and, after some time, if neces- sary, employ the means recommended for the Drowned. In these accidents it is highly dangerous to apply heat too early. If apparently Dead from noxious Vapours, fyc. 1. Remove the body into a cool fresh air.—2. Dash cold w ater on the neck, face, and breast frequently.—3. If the body be cold, apply warmth, as recommended for the Drowned.—4. Use the means recommended for inflating the lungs, in the directions for the Drowned.—5. Let Electiicity (particularly in accidents from lightning) be early employed by a medical assistant. If apparently Dead from Apoplexy. The patient should be placed in a cool air, and the clothes loosened, particularly about the neck and breast. Bleed- ing must early be employed by a medical assistant; the quantity regulated by the state of the pulse. Cloths soaked in cold water, spirits, or vinegar and water, should be kept applied to the head, which should be instantly shaved. All stimulants should be avoided. In cases of Coup-de soleil, or strokes of the sun, the same means to be used as in apoplexy.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 304 1135. Remedies for Poisons. To counteract the effects of arsenic, mercury, antimony, or any of the mineral poisons, taken into the stomach, the liver of sulphur is the most efficacious medicine. Dissolve a large table-spoonful of the liver of sulphur in a pint of water, and give two table-spoonsful of the solution as soon as possible, and repeat it every ten or fifteen minutes for three or four doses, as occasion may require. If this pre- paration cannot easily be procured, a tea-spoonful of sul- phur, with eight or ten grains of salt of wormwood, will afford the best substitute. It will be proper to drink plen- tifully of warm water and to excite vomiting, by giving with the first dose of either the above medicines, or imme- diately after, two scruples of ipecacuanha-powder, and to hasten its operation by titillating the throat with a feather. Oil and milk may likewise be given. If neither liver of sulphur nor salt of wormwood can be readily procured, ten grains of pot-ash, or half a table- spoonful of soap-lees, may be given in a little water, or a strong solution of soap in water. The white of eggs mixed with water and sugar, is an antidote against corrosive sublimate. When mineral poisons, technically called oxide, whe- ther of copper or arsenic, are taken inwardly, one table- spoonful of powdered charcoal mixed either with honey, batter, or treacle, taken immediately, is a complete anti- dote. Within two hours administer either an emetic or cathartic. When any of the preparations of opium, hen-bane, night-shade, hemlock, tobacco, foxglove, or stramonium, or any poisonous fungus, mistaken for mushrooms, or spiritous liquors in excess, or any other deleterious matters have been swallowed, exciting sickness without pain in the stomach, or producing giddiness, drowsiness, and sleep,— give instantly one table-spoonful of flour of mustard in water, and repeat it in copious draughts of w arm waterUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 305 constantly, until vomiting takes place. If the person becomes so insensible as not to be easily roused, give the mustard in vinegar instead of water, and rub the body actively and incessantly. When oil of vitriol, spirits of salt, or aquafortis, have been swallowed, or spilt upon the skin, immediately drink, or wash the part with, large quantities of water, and as soon as they can be procured, add soap, pot-ash, or chalk, to the water. 1136. Test for Epsom Salts. Those who have doubts about the salts, may always be satisfied by putting to them, when dissolved, a little mag- nesia, which will mix quietly: but should it be oxalic acid, it will hiss, and boil up immediately. 1137. Ginger Lozengesfor Heartburn. To one pound of brown sugar, take half an ounce of pre- pared ginger and quarter of an ounce of powdered rhubarb, mix them well together, and put them into a brass pan, with two table-spoonsful of peppermint-water and one ounce of magnesia; stir it, and let it have one thorough boil up; pour it on a stone, or large dish, rubbed over with olive-oil, or fresh butter, and make it up into lozenges. These lozenges have been found useful for indigestion, or acidity on the stomach. 1138. For Indigestion and Heartburn. Take of dried soda powdered, half an ounce, rhubarb eleven drachms, cinnamon-powder one drachm, nutmeg grated very fine one drachm, columbo-root dried and powdered two drachms; mix well together, and divide into thirty-six doses, one to be taken every night in a glass of water. A cup of chamomile tea, with a little ginger infused in it, is an excellent remedy for indigestion, taken an hour 11 b 2 "306 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. before rising, and continued for a length of time, every morning. To eat a crust of bread an hour before breakfast, is useful to improve digestion. 1139. For a violent and continued pain in the stomach, when attended with a sensation of sinking and coldness. Bruise half an ounce of cloves, and pour upon them a pint of boiling water; let them infuse several hours, then strain, and drink a tea-cupful warm three times a day : when the pain is removed, a smaller dose may be taken twice a day, for several days. If the patient be in a state of permanent languor and debility, an ounce and a half of cascariila bark (bruised) should be infused with the cloves. It is considered an excellent slrengthener of the stomach and bowels. 1140. Gargles for Sore Throat. A common gargle may be prepared of sage-tea, with honey and vinegar ; or, infuse some red rose leaves, either fresh or dry, in boiling water, and when they have stood an hour, drain off the liquor, and add a few drops of the oil of vitriol; gargle the throat with either of the above, four or the times every day, rubbing frequently with a mix- ture of two parts of olive-oil to one of turpentine. 1141. For a Quinsey. Rub the throat well upwards, toward the ear, with the oils (see No. 1163), for ten minutes or quarter of an hour, several times in the course of a day, and at bed-time apply a poultice of roasted onions as hot as possible, put- ting a little of the onion in each ear, or in that on the side affected. Seven drops of the oil of amber on a lump of sugar, kept in the mouth without moving, till dissolved, has often produced a very good effect. Gargle with half a307 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS.' pint of barley-water, an ounce of rose-water, two ounces of honey of roses, and half an ounce of nitre. 1142. Emollient or softening Gargles. Take an ounce of marshmallow-root, and two or three figs; boil them in a quart of water till one half be con- sumed ; then strain the liquor. By adding an ounce of honey, and half an ounce of water of ammonia, it will make an excellent diluting gargle. It is peculiarly bene- ficial in fevers, where the tongue and throat are rough and parched. It is also very superior to common acid gargles, in quinseys and inflammatory sore throats;—or, use a decoction of figs in milk and water, adding a little sal- ammoniac. A pint of boilifig water poured on a table-spoonful of the best green tea, kept covered close and used lukewarm, as a gargle, is highly useful in bilious fevers ; adding sugar and milk, if agreeable. A solution of two drachms of borax in seven ounces of rose-water, is also used as a gargle in bilious fevers, and thrush ; for the latter, add one ounce of honey of roses. 1143. Tooth Powder. Take four ounces of charcoal, beat and sift it fine, and mix if with two ounces of powder of bark. This forms an excellent tooth powder. The charcoal of the Areca (commonly called betel nut$, affords a superior powder to the prepared charcoal as a tooth powder. The tincture of rhatany root mixed with a little water, forms an excellent astringent lotion for the teeth, and should always accompany the use of the pre- pared charcoal; this tincture, by repeated use, has often succeeded in fastening loose teeth; but a little common salt, placed under the tongue regularly every morning, and held in the mouth till it dissolves, then rubbing the teeth with it, is probably a better cleanser and preserver of the teeth, than any application ^et known.308 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 1144. Seidlitz Poicders. Take of Rochelle salt, one drachm ; carbonate of soda, thirty-five grains, all finely powdered ; tartaric acid, thirty grains ; dissolve the two first together in nearly half a pint of water, then add the acid, and drink it in- stantly. 114-5. Soda Poicders. To prepare a glass of soda water, take thirty-five grains of carbonate of soda, and thirty grains of tartaric acid. 1146. Citrate of Potash Powder. Take carbonate of potash, half an ounce and four scruples; citric acid, half an ounce ; sugar, two drachms ; essence of lemon, two drops. Mix the above well in a mortar, and keep it dry in a bottle. Thirty grains in a glass of water will make a pleasant and refreshing beverage. 1147. Ginger Beer Powder. Take two drachms of fine loaf-sugar, eight grains of gin- ger, and twenty-six grains of carbonate of potash, all in fine powder, mix them well in a Wedgwood’s ware mortar. Take also twenty-seven grains of citric or tartaric acid, separate from the other pow der; then take two tumbler glasses, each nearly half filled with w ater, stir up the com- pound powder in one, and the acid powder in the other, then mix the two liquors, an effervescence takes place, and the beer may be drank off immediately. 1148. Burns and Scalds. In numerous cases of burns and scalds, the application of carded cotton has succeeded in effecting a cure in a few days. When the discharge exudes through the first layer, more cotton must be added to absorb it. In order that it may adhere to the injured part, the surface should be moistened with oil. The whole will peel off in a few days. When carded cotton is not at hand, apply, oatmeal309 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. and cold soft water immediately, as a poultice ; when it dries, wet the meal again, and do not suffer it to become hard. In bad cases, keep the poultice on two or three days, occasionally moistening it with a little water. 1149. Burns and Sc/Ads. When a burn or scald is trifling, and occasions no blister, it is sufficient to put a compress of several folds of soft linen upon it, dipped in cold water, and to renew it every quarter of an hour till the pain is entirely removed. Spirit of turpentine is an excellent thing for extracting the fire, if it be applied immediately ; also lime water, and linseed or olive oil, of each four ounces, mixed well together, renewing the application frequently. This liniment is extremely useful, if applied in time, in preventing the inflammation subsequent to seals and burns, or even in removing it after it has taken place. 1150. Poultice for Burns and Scalds. Take an equal weight of brown sugar and onions sliced, beat them well together in a mortar to a pulp, and lay it on the part affected. Renew the poultice daily. 1151. Elder Ointment, for Burns and Scalds. Mix a large handful of elder-buds very well with two pounds of palm-oil, let it stand two days, then simmer it on the fire and strain it. When applied to a burn or scald, spread it on soft linen cloth, and renew it twice a day. 1152. Salve for Burns and Scalds. Melt four ounces of white wax, add to it two ounces of olive-oil, simmer them together in a very gentle heat a few minutes; stir the salve till nearly cold, spread it on thin linen. 1153. Turner's Cerate for Burns and Scalds. Take six ounces of fresh grass butter and six ounces of310 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. ^hite wax, olive-bil half a pint; melt the wax and butter with the oil, then stir in one ounce and half of lapis calatninaris finely powdered, till it be well mixed and the powder will not settle. Apply it once a day spread on fine linen cloth. This is also an excellent application for chilblains. 1154. For recent Cuts or Wounds. Moisten a piece of lint with a saturated solution of copal gum in ether, moisten the lint with it once or twice a day, without removing it. If the wound be a cut, care should be taken to close the edges together, before the lint is applied. 1155. For a Sprain. Take a pint of alegar, half an ounce of saltpetre, and art ounce of spirit of turpentine ; stir them together until the nitre is dissolved; then warm it a little, and rub well the part affected twice or thrice a day, keeping it warm with flannel folded round it 1156. Plaster for a Sprain. Mix a little Venice turpentine with flour and the yolk of an egg ; spread it on leather. 1167. A Plaster for a Cough. To three drachms of diachylon take half a drachm of com- mon brown soap, and two scruples of camphor; mix all well together, and spread it on leather. The above quan- tity will make two plasters to lay on the chest. 1158. For Pain in the Feet and Ancles. Wear diachylon plasters, spread on leather, to the soles of the feet. J159. An Excellent Embrocation for Sprains, Swel- lings, Bruises, fyc. Three ounces of rectified spirit of wine, two ounces ofUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS- 31} spirit sal-ammoniac, one ounce and a half of oil of tur- pentine, one ounce and a half of olive-oil, and one ouuce pf opodeldoc. 1160. Whitworth Red Rubbing Bottle. Take Spirit of Lavender one ounce Tincture of Myrrh ... .half an ounce Oil of Thyme half a drachm. Mix. 1161. Spermaceti Ointment. Take half a pint of fine olive-oil, half an ounce of white >vax, and an ounce of spermaceti; melt the whole over a gentle fire, and keep it stirring till the ointment is cold. 1162. Parsley Ointment. Take one spoonful of fresh butter, without salt, and some chopped parsley, mix them together, and let them stand two or three days, then simmer it over a slow fire, and when it is quite melted strain it through a cloth, into small pots, and keep it in a cool place. 1163. Oils for Quinsey or Sore Throat. Two ounces of Spirit of Lavender, One ounce of Opodeldoc, One ounce of Oil of Turpentine, Half an ounce of Oil of Thyme. 1164. Drawing Salv?. Take one pound of pitch, half a pound of rosin, and two ounces of fresh butter; set them over a slow fire in an earthen pot to melt, but neither let it boil, nor even sim- mer, stirring it constantly till all be melted ; then take it off; and stir it till quite cold. 1165. To draw out Thorns and Splinters. Apply nettle roots bruised and salted, or a plaster of cobJ ler’s wax, or turpentine, spread on leather, and a poultice over it.312 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 1166. Effectual Cure for a Wen. Boil any quantity of salt and water about fire minutes, bathe the wen frequently while it is warm, also after it is become cold, ten or twelve times a day, always shaking the bottle well each time before it be applied. It will in some cases effect a cure in a few weeks; in others it will require several months. Another.—Take a little quick lime reduced to a very fine powder, mix it with soft soap till like an ointment; spread a little on a bit of thin leather, and renew it every day, or every second, or third day, as occasion requires. If a plaster be inconvenient, the wen may be rubbed well with the ointment twice a day. This remedy has been very successful. 1167. A Cure for Corns. Roast a decayed onion ; when done, take out the soft pithy part, and apply it hot to the corns, after being well pared ; then lay over it a diachylon plaster, spread on thin leather, with a very small hole cut in the centre : by re- peating this three or four successive nights, the corns will be removed. A clove of garlic, prepared and applied in the same manner, has also been tried with complete success. Another.—After bathing the feet in warm water at bed-time, till the corn becomes softened, pare it down with a knife, but not to make it bleed ; then wet the surface with saliva, and rub it over with the lunar caustic, extend- ing it round the edges of the corn, continuing it till such a quantity adheres to it, as will shortly change it to a dark grey, and eventually black. There is no danger to be apprehended in applying too much, especially on the corn itself: a little lint or cotton wool should then be applied, to prevent the part coming in contact with the stocking. In five or six days, the part acted upon by the caustic will peel off, including every vestige of the corn, leaving the part quite smooth and natural. Another easy remedy is, to bathe the feet, half anUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 313 hour, two or three successive nights, in a pretty strong solution of soda. The alkali dissolves the cuticle, and the corn falls out spontaneously, leaving a small cavity, which soon fills up. 1168. Remedy for Warts. Cut the stem of celandine, and rub the warts frequently with the yellow liquid which issues from it;—or the juice of onions ; but there is nothing more safe or certain than spirit of turpentine, applied twice a day, with the point ot a very small stick. If 1 he warts be very sore, apply the roots of common rushes bruised, as a poultice; or bruised purslain, changing the poultice twice a day. The tincture of muriated iron, or moistened lunar cau- stic, applied every day, is a most effectual remedy. 1 i 69. Yeast Poultice. Mix well half a pound of linseed-meal, and half a pint of yeast; expose it to a gentle heat till it begins to ferment. This poultice is excellent for stimulating and cleansing foul ulcers. 1170. Charcoal Poultice. To half a pound of common oatmeal poultice, add two ounces of fresh-burnt charcoal, powdered very fine ; mix it well, and use it lor foul, and foetid smelling ulcers. 1171. Sorrel Poultice. Boil any quantity of the bottom leaves of the common meadow' sorrel till soft, then beat them to a pulp, and ap- ply it to a cancerous or scorbutic ulcer. 1172. Apple Poultice. Poultices of apples have been successfully employed fot cancerous or scorbutic ulcers. They are made by mix- ing equal quantities of the boiled pulp of apples with bread crumbs, C e314 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. Malt Poultice—is also used for the same purposes, and is made by mixing as much fine ground malt with yeast, as will make a poultice of the size and consistence required. 1173. A Common Poultice Is made of white bread boiled in water till sufficiently thick, when a little oil must be added. Observe, water is better than milk. An excellent poultice to ripen swellings may be made of two ounces of white lily-roots, an ounce and half of figs, and two ounces of meal or bean flour; boil the above in water till sufficiently Thick, then apply it to the diseased part while warm, and change it as often as it becomes dry. 1174. Carrot Poultice. Consists simply of carrots grated with water, so as to form a pulp : this is an excellent poultice to relieve pain arising from a sore, which it also cleanses, and should be changed twice a day. 1175. Mustard Poultice. Take flour of mustard, one part; oatmeal, thfipe parts; vinegar, a sufficient quantity to form a poultice. Boil the oatmeal and vinegar together, and afterwards sprinkle in the flour of mustard. To be applied warm. 1170. An excellent Poultice. Take groundsel, green chamomile, wild mallows, of each a handful, and a few foxglove leaves, boil them in water till tender, then thicken with oatmeal, adding a table-spoonful of linseed oil. Chick-weed roasted, then chopped, makes a very useful poultice. 1177. A Poultice for Boils. Take an equal quantity of chick-weed and groundsel, boil315 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. them together, then thicken with a little oatmeal. When boils are very painful, foment them with a strong decoction of poppy-heads, previous to applying the poultice. RoasU ed figs are very good for boils. Also, a plaster of honey and flour, or Venice turpentine. When a boil or whitlow does not break properly, apply the skin of the iuside of an egg-shell. 1178. A Poultice for hard or gathered Breasts. Boil three large poppy-heads in a pint of water till reduced one half, then strain it on white bread-crumbs, or linseed, simmer it a little on the fire till of a proper consistence, apply it twice a day. If much swelled, apply a poultice of roasted turnips, mashed and mixed with oil of roses, twice or thrice a day : or, foment the breast with a large sponge dipped (and squeezed dry), in a strong decoction of wild mallows and chamomile. 1179. The Irish Plaster, for hard or gathered Breasts. Put a pint of olive-oil and four ounces of yellow wax into a glazed earthen vessel, stir them over a slow fire with a smooth stick till the wax be melted, then add four ounces of frankincense, four ounces of white rosin, and eight ounces of red lead, simmer all together very caiefully ; take it off* the fire while it continues of a red colour, or it will turn brown and hard. 1180. To prevent or cure sore Nipples. Take two parts of strong green tea and one of brandy : bathe the nipples with it when the child is taken from the breast. Cream, juice of valerian, and juice of sea green, boiled till it becomes as butter, makes a very nice ointment for sore nipples, applying it three or four times a day. Cups formed of the curd of alum posset, or wax, are very useful ft prevent the nipples from being rubbed316 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. A solution of gum-arabic is also very useful, to bathe the nipples with when very tender, covering them with a little tissue paper, dipped in olive-oil, or oil of almonds. 1181. An excellent Fomentation. Take dried wormwood, southernwood, and chamomile, of each an ounce, bay-leaves dried, half an ounce, boil them gently in six pints of water, and strain it off for use. A mixture of mallow and elder leaves make an excellent fomentation. Mallow, or chamomile alone, are also very useful for that purpose. 1182. For a Swelling attended with much pain. Cut in pieces an ounce of the roots of garden poppies, or two ounces of white poppy heads, and half an ounce of elder-flowers, boil them three quarters of an hour in three pints of spring-water, then strain and press out the liquor. Use it as a fomentation. 1183. Strengthening Fomentation. Take oak bark, one ounce; pomegranate peel half an ounce ; alum, two drachms; smith’s forge-water, three pints. Boil the water with the bark and peel till con- sumed one third ; then strain, and dissolve in it the alum. Foment the weak part with large pieces of sponge, dipped in this astringent liquor, and squeezed dry. The fomenta- tion should be applied as hot as possible. 1184. Ague Plaster. Take olibantim, mastick, and bole Armenian, of each quarter of an ounce, mix them with two ounces of the best Venice turpentine, 'fie a piece of leather over the pot, to keep it. When you use it, spread it on a slip of leather about two inches in breadth, and put it round the wrists. This simple ^ tremedy seldom fails.317 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. USD. Excellent Salve and strengthening Plaster. Take of common pitch, one pound. Diachylon, three quarters of an ounce. Burgundy pitch, one ounce, Bees* wax, half an ounce, Venice turpentine, one ounce, Rosin, one ounce, Basilicon, half an ounce. 1186. To prevent Cramp. Tie a bandage of flannel list, about an inch and a half or two inches in breadth, just below the knees, every night when going to bed. This has been repeatedly tried, with very good effect. Rubbing the part affected very well with a flesh brush, or with flannel, or holding a roll of brimstone in the baud, has often a good effect in relieving the cramp. 1187. Fw a Stitch in the Side. Apply a bottle of hot water wrapped up in flannel; or a bag of hot oats. 1188. To stop the bleeding of a Wound. Apply dried puffballs; or, the leaves of balm of Gilead. j .,*•> >• • • • • > ... r\ , 1189. For the smarting pain of Sunburn. Wash the part frequently with sage and plantain tea. Sage tea alone answers very well. 1190. For the Rheumatism. Dissolve two ounces of saltpetre in three gills of spring- water, and rub the part affected about half an hour every night before the fire. Or, simmer four ounces of saltpetre, pounded fine, in a quart of vinegar till the ni:.e b* dissolved : when cold, bottle it, and use it as above. e c 2318 USEFUL FAMILY RECElPrS. 1191. An excellent Remedy for Rheumatism. Take of soap liniment, two ounces; oil of olibanum and oil of turpentine, of each a drachm and a half; mix all to- gether, and rub well the part affected. Or, apply a solution of camphor in spirit of turpentine. 1192. For Rheumatism. The following is the famous American receipt lor the cure of rheumatism, and, in some cases, even a contraction of the joints:—Take of garlic two cloves, of gum ammoniac one drachm, bruise them well together in a mortar, make the mixture into three pills with liquorice powder, and take one of them night and morning; and drink while taking these boluses very strong sassafras tea. Another.—Take Hour of sulphur, four ounces, mix it well in a pint and a half of milk ; take a tea-cupful three mornings, then omit it for three days : repeat this course for several weeks. Another.—Take flour of sulphur, Turkey rhubarb, guaiacum (gum resin), and nitre, of each half an ounce ; pound all together very fine, and take one tea-spoonful, in a little treacle or honey, at bed.time. 1193. Dr. Johnson's Receipe for Rheumatism. Take flour of sulphur, and flour of mustard, of each hall an ounce; honey, or treacle, sufficient to make an electu- ary ; take the size of a nutmeg three times ?a day, drink- ing, after each dose, half a pint of the decoction of lovage- root. 1194. Remedy for removing Chilblains. Apply a poultice of roasted onions, or salt and onions pounded together. Or, an ounce of white copperas, dissolved in a quart of water, and occasionally applied to the affected parts, will utterly remove the most obstinate chilblains. This application must be used before they break, otherwise itUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 31* will do injury. If broken, wash them in a lktie tinc- ture of myrrh, and a little water. Another.—Crude sal ammoniac, one ounce; vinegar, half a pint; dissolve, and bathe the part, if not broken, two or three times a day. If broken, poultice, or dress them with basilicon, and add turpentine, if necessary. Another.—Take spermaceti ointment, six drachms ; prepared calomel, two scruples; rectified oil of turpentine, one drachm ; mix, and rub well the part affected, and cover with shamoy leather. If ulcerated, apply it on lint, and cover with leather as before, dressing them twice a day. If taken in time, nothing more is necessary than to apply a plaster of diachylon, spread on leather. The best preventive is to wear good strong shoes, and wash-leather socks. 1 19*5. Remedy for the Ring-worm. Dip the finger in lemon-juice, and apply it well to the part affected ; some common gun-powder (not glazed) pouuded and passed through a sieve, to be sprinkled on the lemon- juice whilst wet, so as completely to cover the wound, and repeated every second day. Tluee or four applications have generally produced a cure, but in cases where this troublesome disease has been inveterate, a longer time ha* been required. Another.—An equal quantity of oil of iron and spirit of turpentine ; apply it twice a day. Another.—Fry foxglove leaves in fresh butter, without salt, strain it, and rub twice a day. Another.—Take an equal quantity of Barbadoes tar, and fresh butter; mix together in a gentle heat, and anoint the head every day with it. An oil-case or an old linen cap should be worn at the time. Another.—Wash the head well morning and evening, with soft, or common brown soap and water, with a sponge or flannel; wipe it dry, then sponge it with lime-water©JsEFlIL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 320 from eftc gas-works, which lias been used for purifying gas; or with a solution of an ounce of bay salt, dissolved in a quart of water. 1196. Cold Cream, for chapped Hands, nr to he used as a Lip-salce: or, for Sore Nipples. Put one ounce and a half of oil of sweet almonds, half an ounce of spermaceti, and two drachrns of white wax, into a small jar, set it in a small pan on the fire; when the wax and spermaceti are dissolved, take the jar off the fire, and add gradually two tea-spoonsful of rose-water, stirring i( till coid, and the ingredients well incorporated. 1197. Paste for chapped Hands, arid which will pre- serve them smooth, by constant use. Mix quarter of a pint of olive-oil with the yolks of two new-laid eggs, a table-spoonful of rose-water, and the same quantity of honey ; add as much fine oat-meal, or almond-paste, as will form it into a paste. Honey alone is an excellent thing either for the lips or hands. Sper- maceti oiutment is also very good. 1198. To Cement China, fyc. Beat quick-lime to an impalpable [powder, sift it through fine muslin, tie some in thin muslin, wet the edges of the china with beaten white of egg, then, instantly, dust on some lime, and join them together. Chinese Method of Mending China.—Boil a piece of white flint glass in river water for five or six minutes, beat it to a fine powder, and grind it well with the white of an egg, and it will join china without rivetting, so that no art can break it again in the same place.—Observe, the composition must be ground extremely fine, on a painter’s slab. Glue.—For a fine, clear, and transparent kind, which will even unite glass so as to render the fracture almost imperceptible, nothing is equal to isinglass sirhmered in spirits of wine.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 321 1199. Bottle Cement. Melt anv quantity of rosin, with a fourth part of bees* wax, and a fourth of brick-dust, mix them well in a pot on the fire, dip the cork and the top of the bottle into it, turning it round that it may completely cover the cork. 1200. To make strong Paste for paper, fyc. Mix fine flour with cold water, then boil it till it be of a glutinous consistence ; this makes common paste. When wanted stronger, mix a fourth or sixth part of the weight of flour of powdered alum ;—when it is required stronger, add a little powdered rosin. Or, boil three quarters of an ounce of the best gum arabic in a pint of water with fine flour, to the thickness of honey. 1201. Paste that will not turn mouldy. Make the paste with flour in the usual way, but rather thick, with a little brown sugar, and a small quantity of corrosive sublimate. The use of the sugar is to keep it flexible; and the sublimate, besides preserving it from insects, is an effectual check against fermentation. Add a drop or two of essential oil of lavender, peppermint, ber- gamot, or any other, which is a complete security against mouldiness. Paste made in this manner, and exposed to the air, dries without change, to a state resembling horn, so that it may any time be moistened again and applied to use. When kept in a close covered jar, it may be pre- served in a state for use at all times. 1202. Rice Glue. An elegant cement may he made from rice flour, which is at present used in China and Japan. Mix the rice flour intimately with cold water, simmer it gently over a slow lire, stirring it constantly ; it readily forms a delicate and durable cement, and not only answers all the purposes ofuseful family receipts. 322 common paste, but is admirably adapted for joining paper, c ard, &r. in forming a variety of ornaments. When made of the consistence of plaster clay, models, &c. may be formed, and the articles when dry, are susceptible of a high polish, and are very durable. 1203. To Warm Beds. Take all the black or blazing coals out of the pan, and throw in a small handful of salt; this will in some degree prevent the smell of sulphur, which is so disagreeable and offensive. The following method is more cleanly, and is decidedly the best way. Fill a few stone bottles with boiling water, (tying down the corks); put them in the bed half an hour or more before going to bed, and let them remain till you are ready to get into bed. This is also the best w ay possible of airing beds and blankets not in Constant use. A large stone bottle that will hold five or six quarts, filled with boiling water, and wrapped up in the bed-clothes, will keep warm, at least two days, in cold weather. 1204. Indelible Marking Ink. Take one hundred grains of lunar caustic, three drachms of powdered gum-arabic, one scruple of sap green, and one scruple of prepared lamp-black, mix the whole in a phial with an ounce and a half of rain-water. The linen to be wet with the following mixture, and dried before iu is marked. Preparation liquid: Dissolve one ounce and a half of the salt of tartar, and half an ounce of powdered gum- arabic, in four ounces of rain-water. After marking, leave it in the sun and air to dry. 1205. To make Starch. Mix the starch with very little cold water, till qnite smooth, then add a little more; have t}ie water ready ou321 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPT*. the fire, and when hot, before it boils, pour it on the starch, stirring it well; let it stand a minute to settle, then clear it off into the pan, leaving the rough or sandy par- ticles at the bottom ; set it on the fire, and stir it till it ha* boiled a little, adding a pinch of salt, and a bit of white wax, about the size of a small hazel-nut to a pint of starch. If properly made in this way, the starch will Stick in ifening. 1206. Salt of Lemon. To one ounce of cream of tartar, take half an ounce of salt of sorrel, pound it together, and keep it in a bottle well corked. This mixture answers every purpose of the salt of lemon, and is to be used in the same way. 1207. To take out Iron Moulds. Wet the stains with water, then lay the linen on a plate placed over a basin of boiling water, or on a water-plate, and put on it a little salt of lemon; as it dries, wet it again with a little cold water: as the spots are removed, the linen should be immediately washed with plenty of clean water, to prevent any injury from the acid. Another.—Lay the cloth on the lid of a tin saucepan, filled with boiling water, and rub the spots with the juice of sorrel and salt, and when the cloth has thoroughly im- bibed the juice, wash it with ley. 1208. To Purify Water. A large table-spoonful of pulverized alum, dissolved in a pint of water, and then put into a hogshead of water, (stir- ring it at the time), will in twenty-four hours so purify it, that it will be nearly as clear and fresh as spring water. It may then be cleared off. To soften water for washing ; a few ounces of soda will be found superior to any kind of pearl or potash. Water, in which a small quantity of soda has been dis- •olved, gives to glasses, decanters, plate, &c. a fine lustre.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 324 1209. To make Flannels keep their color, and not shrink. Take off all the coloured edge, then pour boiling water upon the flannel, and let it stand till cold before you wash it. It will seldom shrink much afterwards. 1210. To clean Carpets. Take up the carpet, and W it be well beaten, then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand-brush ; turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with gall, soap, and water, very clean ; then rinse it well with clean water, and lastly, with a table-spoonful of oil of vitriol in clean water, and dry it well with linen cloths; then lay it on the grass, or hang it up to dry. 1211. To Revive Old Writings which are much defaced. Boil gall-nuts in wine, then dip a sponge into the liquor, and pass it on the lines of the old writing : by this method the letters, which were almost undecipherable, will appear as fresh as if newly written. 1212. To prevent Ink from turning mouldy. Infuse a bit of salt, the size of a hazel nut, to each quart of ink. 1213. Scouring Drops, to take Grease, fyc.from Silk. One ounce of spirit of turpentine, mixed with two drachms of essence of lemon. Grease and other spots iii silks, to be rubbed carefully with a bit of linen rag dipped in the above composition. Another.—Rub the silk with a bit of flannel dipped in ether, with flannel underneath, then rub it with clean cap paper. Another.—Scrape a little pipe clay, or French chalk, on a piece of clean white cap-paper, lay the silk upon it, then sprinkle a little more of the powder over the silk.USEFUL FAIMLY RECEIPTS. 325 lay on another piece of paper, then iron it with an iron moderately heated. 1214. To take Grease Spots from Woollen Cloth. Take magnesia in the lump, wet it with a little water, rub the grease spots well; when quite dry, brush it off, w hen no stain nor appearance of grease will be left. 1215. To remove Ink Spots from Linen, fyc. As soon as the accident happens, wet the place with juice of sorrel, or lemon, or with vinegar, and rub it with the best hard white soap. 1216. To take out Paint from Linen. Rub the place well with soap, and put it into hot soft water. Or—Dip a pen in spirit of turpentine, and apply it to the paint spots before it becomes dry ; or, if large, use a small sponge ; let it remain a few hours, then rub it off with clean cap-paper. 1217. To take out Mildeiv. Mix soft soap with powdered starch, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon ; lay it on the linen on both sides with a painter’s brush. Let it lie on the grass, and as it dries wet it again till the stain comes out. x Or—Rub the linen well with soap ; then rub on it some powdered chalk; lay it on the grass, and as it dries wet it a little. It usually removes the mildew with twice doing. 1218. To take Stains out of Linen. Wet it, and rub the stains very well with soap on both sides; then lay on as much starch mixed thick with cold water as you can put on, and lay it on the grass; if not complete the first time, repeat it in two or three days, and should the weather be very hot or dry, sprinkle the part with water. Dd326 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 1219, To take out Fruit, or Acid Stains. Wet the linen, and lay on it some salt of tartar; then rub it without adding more water. Or—wet the spots without dipping, put two or three bits of common matches lighted into a small jar, and in- stantly hold the stained part over it. 1220. Another Way. Tie up in the stained part a little pot-ash, then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather; boil the linen till the stain disappears. Or—pour boiling milk on the stained linen, and fet it lie live or six hours; then lay in the air till the stain comes out. Many stains may be removed by dipping the linen in sour buttermilk, and drying it in the sun. It should be wet as often as it dries, till the stains disappear. * 1221. To remove Grease-Spots from printed Books. Moisten the grease-spots with a camel-hair pencil dipped in rectified spirit of turpentine ; when dry, moisten it with a little spirit of wine, and it will remove any stain the tur- pentine may have left. 1222. To clean Oil-Cloths. Sweep off the dust; then wipe the oil-cloth with a clean tlanneJ; wet it over with milk, and rub with a dry cloth till bright. This method is preferable to cleaning them with wax. 1223. To clean Paint. Brush and wipe off all the dust quite clean; then scour the paint with soft water, with a little soda in it, using a little powdered whiting, and mottled or white soap; then wash it with a sponge and clean soft water with a little soda in it; then, immediately wipe it with linen cloths till quite dry.USEFULFAMILY RECEIPTS. 327 If not very dirty, using a sponge only is preferable to a brush, as it does not take off so much of the paint. Sponge is well suited for all domestic purposes of cleaning. 1224. To clean Decanters. Dissolve a little soda in soft hot water, when of a proper heat, about half fill the decanters, adding some slips of brown paper, and egg-shells; shake the bottles well till quite clean; then rinse them in clean soft water, with a little soda in it. Fullers' earth, finely powdered, also answers very well for the same purpose. 1225. To clean Bottles infested with bad smells. Put into the bottles some pieces of coarse brown paper, fill them with water, shake the bottles exceedingly well, and leave them in that state a day or two: when finding them more or less affected, repeat the process, and after- wards rinse them with clean water. 1226. To clean Water Casks. Scour the inside well with plenty of sand and water, after- wards with charcoal, coarsely powdered, and water; then rinse them with a pretty strong solution of oil of vitriol and water; this will entirely deprive them of their foulness. 1227. To remove Bugs, fyc.from Beds. The bedsteads ought to be taken down three or four times a year; a good manual cleaning given to all the parts, with soft soap, salt, and water, and the screws dipped in pure oil. This plan will render all poisonous mixtures unnecessary. 1228. To extract Oilfrom Boards or Stone. Make a strong ley of pot-ash and soft water, and add as much unslacked lime as it will take; stir it together, and328 USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS; then let it settle a few minutes; bottle it, and stop it close; have ready some water to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards, it will take out the colour; therefore do it with care and expedition. 1229. To clean Cast-Iron Stoves and Grates. Boil quarter of a pound of the best black lead, with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut; when that is melted, dip a painter’s brush in the mixture, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush, and brush it till bright. 1230. To take Rust out of Steel. Cover and rub the steel with sweet oil, and in forty-eight hours use unslacked lime finely powdered, and rub with a spongy piece of wood until the rust disappears. 1231. To take the Black off the bright Bars of polished Stoves in a few minutes. Bub them well with some of the following mixture on a bit of woollen cloth; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand-paper. The Mix- ture : Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two quarts of water to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonsful, and mix to the consistence of paste, with emery. 1232 To take Iron Stains out of Marble. Mix an equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon- juice in a bottle; shake it well and wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. 1233. To clean Mahogany Furniture. Take a little alkanet-root dried and powdered, steep it in spirit of turpentine twenty-four hours, then strain it, mix it with one pint of cool drawn linseed oil in an earthen pot, adding a bit of alum the size of a nutmeg; let the mixtureUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 329 stand all night in a warm place : rub the furniture over with it, and let it remain one hour; then rub it well off with a linen cloth. Before the mixture is applied, the furniture should be well washed with vinegar. 1234. Another Way. Take quarter of an ounce of the finest white soap, grate it small, and put it in a new glazed earthen vessel with a pint of water; hold it over the fire till the soap is dis- solved ; then add the same quantity of bleached wax cut into small pieces, and two ounces of common wax; when the whole is incorporated, it is fit for use. Dip a bit of flannel in the varnish while warm, and rub it on the furni- ture ; let it stand quarter of an hour, then apply the fur- niture brush; polish with clean flannel, aud lastly with linen. Raw linseed oil laid on the furniture, and suffered to remain twelve hours, (the first time of using it), then iuL- bed off with woollen cloth, and lastly with linen, will give a beautiful polish to mahogany, if repeated frequently; the furniture being well cleaned previous to being oiled. 1235. To remove Stains, and Ink Spots from Mahogany. To two ounces of oil of vitriol, mix one ounce of muriatic acid, or spirit of salts; mix by shaking them in phials ; lay a little on carefully with a feather, or woollen rag ; let it remain but a short time, touch it with oil, then rub it clean off', with a linen cloth or a cork. Spirit of salts alone is frequently used; some prefer diluting half a tea-spoonful with a table spoonful of water, 1236. French Polish for Furniture. To one pint of spirit of wine, take one ounce of shell-lac, and half an ounce of sandarac. For colouring red, quar- ter of an ounce of dragon’s blood should be added; for yellow, the same quantity of saffron.USEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 330 Let the gum be well pounded in a mortar, then put iuto a bottle with the spirit of wine, placed in the air of the fire, shaking it occasionally; when the gum is dissolved, it is fit to use. Make a ball of woollen cloth, or flannel, so that you can hold it conveniently in your hand, shake up the contents of the bottle, and put a little upon the ball, then touch the ball with linseed oil with your finger, cover the ball with a clean linen rag, then apply it to the furni- ture, and it will produce a beautiful polish. 1237. Polishing Paste, for Brass, Sfc, To a pint of soft water, take quarter of a pound of white soap, sliced very thin; when dissolved, add half a pound of rotten-stone, pounded quite fine; let it boil three minutes, then add an ounce of spirit of hartshorn or tur- pentine, mix it well in, but do not biol it afterwards; put it into small jars or cups for use. Wet a bit of sponge or woollen cloth, and rub it on the paste, rub the brass with it, then polish with wash-leather in the usual way. 1238. Usefu l Properties of Charcoa l. The medical qualities of pulverized charcoal are daily de- veloping themselves. In addition to its value in bilious disorders, two ounces of the charcoal, boiled in a pint of fresh milk, may be taken in doses of a wine-glass full, by adults, every two hours, in the most obstinate dysentery, until relieved, which has not failed to be the effect, in almost every instance. It is harmless, and may be safely tried. Charcoal made from the maple-wood is best for the purpose. 1239 To make Blacking. Take half a pound of ivory black, quarter of a pound of treacle, one ounce of sweet oil, quarter of an ounce of oil of vitriol, half an ounce of copperas, half an ounce of pow- dered gum arabic, and one quart of vinegar; mix the ivory black, treacle, gura, and oil together first, then about halfUSEFtTL FAMILY RECEIPTS. 331 of the vinegar, then the remainder of the vinegar, and lastly the copperas. 1240. Another. Take eight ounces of ivory black, three ounces of treacle, three ounces of coarse sugar, a table-spoonful of sweet oil, quarter of an ounce of oil of vitriol, mix all well together with three pints of vinegar. Another.—Take ivory black and treacle, of each twelve ounces, spermaceti oil four ounces, vinegar two quarts. 1241. Another. Take ivory black and brown sugar-candy, of each two ounces, a table-spoonful of sweet oil, and a pint of cold vinegar added gradually, till the whole be well incor- porated. Or, take ivory black and treacle, of each half a pound ; powdered gum arabic and sweet oil, of each half an ounce; vinegar, three pints; boil the vinegar, and pour it hot on the other ingredients. 1242. Another. Take ivory black and moist sugar, of each quarter of a pound; a table-spoonlul of flour; the same of oil; and a tea-spoonful of powdered gum arabic : make a paste of the flour, and while hot put in the oil, then the sugar; after- wards mix the whole well together in a quart of water, and you will have an excellent blacking. APPENDIX. 1243. To preserve Eggs. Put fresh-laid eggs in an earthen pot, and cover them wilh salt. They may also be preserved in the same way as No. 121, using salt instead of bran. Eggs brushed over with a solution of gum-arabic, and, when dry, put in a box, and the interstices filledappendix: 332 up with powdered charcoal, may be preserved many months. 1244. Scotch Btirgoo. To a quart of coarse oatmeal, add gradually two quarts of water, so that the whole may mix smoothly; stir it continually on the fire till it has boiled quarter of an hour ; then pour it out, and stir in a little salt and but- ter, with, or without pepper. This quantity will serve five or six persons for a moderate meal. 1245. Scotch Short Bread. Mix three ounces of good moist, sugar with a pound of fiour, take half a pound of butter, wash out the salt, and rub two ounces of it in the flour and sugar, melt the other six ounces, and mix up the paste with it; roll it out about half an inch thick, and mark it in squares ; stick caraway comfits on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cold, break it in the squares. 1246. Pease and Mushroom Pie. Season some rather young pease and mushrooms with pepper and salt, add some butter, and a little water, cover with a good crust, and bake it. 1247. Beans and Cauliflower. Boil some green or nonpareil beans ; when about half done, put in some cauliflower broken in small branches, let them boil together till quite enough, tlieji drain, and serve them up with good melted butter poured over them. A little parsley, boiled and chopped, may be added, if preferred. , 1248. French melted Butter. Put into a saucepan quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a spoonful of flour, a little salt, half a gill of water, half a spoonful of white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg; set it on the fire till it thickens, but do not let it quite boi), then serve it up.INDEX The figures under No. refer to the Receipts, and those under the word page, where the Receipts are to he found. A. No. pag*. Ague Plaster 1184 316 Almond emulsion.... 1049 277 Apple sauce 63 Puddings..... 77 Do 78 Do 79 Fritters 108 Pancakes 108 Pie 114 Cheesecakes ... .124 124 Cream .519 130 Solid 132 Trifle 136 Biscuits 265 Jelly .746 198 Marmalade.... 201 Cheese 203 Water 248 Bread 1050 278 to dry apples . .796 206 to bake do. ... .802 207 to keep for win ter use 211 to stew 208 to scald do. Artichokes, to boil... .142 40 to fry ..; 51 Asses’ Milk, substitute for 1054 279 Asthma 1077 283 Asafcetida, tincture of! 100 292 Asparagus soup ...... 12 4 with eggs 109 33 to boil 123 36 B. Barley-water 973 258 Do. compound,... 1045 276 No. page. Barley soup .34 11 Beer, ginger 890 235 Treacle 892 236 Bees, remedy for Sting of..... .1122 299 Bean Pudding Beans, French to stew 176 48 to ragoo ...: to preserve to boil ..132 38 Beds, to warm .1203 322 Beet-root Fricasee of Green and white ..162 45 to fry ,., .. Biscuit trifle Biscuits Queen Anne’s.... Hard or Cracknels .... ..593 Plain and crisp .. ..595 151 Naples Savoy Scotch Sponge ..646 166 Lemon drop .... Nun’s Yarmouth Drop Frost Apple Chesterfield .. .. ..995 Blacking, to make . .1210 Black Caps Blackberry Powder. .1085 288 Blanc mange Bleeding at the nose. .1112 296 to stop .1188 317INDEX. 334 No. page. Bottles, to clean 1226 Bread with leaven ... .574 with potatoes . .576 144 with rice .577 for toast .578 Scalded Household .... French .582 146 oflndian corn . .584 147 of potato flour . .585 Irish or freckled 615 156 Scotch short .. 1245 Apple 1050 278 Breakfast Cakes .601 152 Brocoli, to boil .140 40 Broth, pease . 18 6 Scotch English Vegetable . 61 Brewis . 62 Bugs, to remove 1228 Buns, Bath .587 149 Excellent Common Burgoo, Scotch 1246 Burns and Scalds.... 1148 308 Butter, to preserve ., ,.886 233 Turnip ..887 234 to purify rancid i 888 to make fresh . .889 to serve as a dish1032 274 Orange .556 138 Fairy .557 139 Irish .559 Black ..770 204 Oiled .248 66 Melted .. 1248 214 59 Buttered eggs . 98 30 Cabbage, to boil Red to stew ... .169 44 to dress Dutch way Soup 1028 273 Cakes, common tea . ..602 152 Scotch tea .... No. page. Cake, Clap 622 158 Potato 623 159 Alinond 635 162 Banbury 638 163 Berkshire 639 164 Bath 641 Caraway 652 167 that will keep 661 654 168 Plain Cnrrant. .655 Good common 656 Mrs. Broomhcad’s plum 657 169 Citron , 658 Cinnamon ......659 or Cracknels ...660 Diet 662 170 Shrewsbury 663 Ginger 666 171 Seed 667 Light seed 668 Plain 669 Eccles 670 172 Plum 671 Small Plum ....673 173 Wedding 674 Common Plum. .675 174 Potato flour.. ..676 Pound 677 175 American potash678 Jumballs 679 Lemon 680 King 681 Queen 682 176 Ratafia 683 Rice 684 French rice....686 177 Savoy 687 Wafer 68S 178 Royal 689 Ratafia drops.. ..680 Sponge 691 178 Turk’s 692 179 Vicarage 693 Tunbridge 694 Wiltshire 695 Calecannon ,...1029 273INDEX, 335 No. page. Capillaire 925 245 Caper sauce 235 63 Carpets, to clean.... 1210 324 Carrot pie 262 69 Soup 38 13 Carrots, to boil 133 38 to force 158 44 to stew 161 Cauliflowers, to boil... 137 39 to fry 190 51 with whitesauce 177 48 Catsup, walnut 873 228 Mushroom 874 Celery sauce 239 64 to stew 173 47 to stew white ....174 48 Cement 1198 320 Bottle 1199 321 Charcoal, properties of1238 330 Cheese, preparations of 73 Toasted with onions 279 with macaroni. .280 Welsh rabbit 282 Scotch rabbit. ..283 74 Ramakin 285 Braised 286 Fondue. * 287 Roasted 288 75 Toast 289 Potted ....290 Stewed 291 Fritters 292 Italian 560 139 Lemon 561 140 New milk 877 231 Cream 878 York cream 882 232 Cream in straw vats 881 232 Fresh 883 233 to eat new ... .884 Apple 764 203 Apricot 766 Bullace or plum767 Cherry 768 204 Damson :..769 No. page. Cheesecakes 489 123 Almond 490 Apple 492 124 Bread 493 Curd 494 Lemon 495 Plain 499 125 Potato 500 Rice 501 126 Chervil, to preserve...207 55 Chilblains 1194 318 Chocolate ... .989 262 Cholera morbus, reme- dy for 1086 289 Chapped hands 1197 320 Citrate of potash .... 1146 308 Colic 1092 290 Convulsion fits 1099 292 Corns, a cure for,. ..1167 312 Costiveness in chil- dren 1097 291 Cough mixtures 279 Hooping 1078 284 Cocoa nut, for dessert 1000 2156 Coffee, to make 983 260 Milk 986 261 Substitute for . .987 Cramp, to prevent... 1186 317 Cranberries, to bottle 614 210 Cream, to keep 885 2-33 with preserves 967 256 Almond 515 129 Barley *. .517 Clouted 518 Cold..,.. H96 320 Codlin 519 130 Devonshire 520 Dutch 521 Gooseberry 522 Lemon 524 131 Snow 5 26 Stone 527 Velvet ;.,528 132 Italian 536 ,33 Quince 537 134 Raspberry .53s Curds 562 140336 INDEX. No. page. Croup, cure for 1114 297 Crumpets, Mrs.Broom- head’s 604 158 Common 605 154 Potato 606 Cucumber soup 27 9 Sauce 241 64 Cucumbers, to force...155 43 A ragout of 156 to stew 186 50 dressed raw... .212 58 Currant water 997 266 Sauce 222 61 Currants, to bottle....813 210 Custards, almond 505 126 Baked 507 127 Biest 509 Boiled 511 Common 512 128 Gooseberry 513 Solid 514 D. Damson, cheese 769 204 Drops 1001 267 Jelly 756 201 Damsons, to bottle.. ..811 209 to dry 797 206 to keep for winter pies.. .718 158 to preserve ....730 193 Decanters, to clean.. 1224 327 Devonshire white pot pudding 996 266 Diarrhce, remedy for 1088 289 Draught for a cough 1062 279 Drink, cooling in fevers 1014 276 Drops, raspberry. ...1002 267 Ginger 1013 269 Lemon 1014 do. Drowned persons, for recovery of 1134 309 Dysentery, remedies for 286 E. Ear-ache, remedy for 1113 297 No. page. Egg soup 36 12 Porridge 945 251 Sauce 257 64 Sandwich 295 76 Balls .115 34 Eggs 29 to boil to poach ....90, 104 Hashed . 91 with lettuce Fried with parsley 95 30 Fricassee of. .96, 114 Battered . 97 Scotch dish of... . 99 31 with sorrel .100 French dish of... .102 Another .105 32 with onions and mushrooms ... .103 31 to fry 32 with cucumbers . .108 33 with asparagus .. .109 A ragout of .110 with mushrooms 111 with cheese .112 34 Fried in paste... .113 Buttered with sorrel ,117 35 Minced with parsley .118 to preserve for eating in the shell 1243 119 for winter use 1019,120 Sliced 1020 271 with cream 1021 with butter 1022 Elder rob 792 205 Syrup 920 243 Electuary 1060 279 Ointment 1151 309 Electuary, for a coughl061 279 Embrocation for hooping-cough 1079 284 Excellent for sprains, swellings, or rheumatism. .1159 310INDEX, 353 No. page. Emulsion, almond....1049 277 Gum Arabic. ..1058 280 Epilepsy, salt a cure for.. 1115 297 Epsom salts 1083 286 Test for 1136 305 Essence, Ward’s, for croup, &c 1114 297 Evertou toffy 1010 269 Eyes, inflammation of, weak, and weeping 1132 Eye, for a blood-shot 1131 301 Water 1133 302 F. Face, pain and swel- ling in the 1111 296 Fennel sauce 225 61 Ferment for bread....624 159 Fever drinks 276 Mixtures, see sa- line mixtures 294 Typhus, preven- tion of infec- tion from ....1126 300 Flannels, to wash 1209 326 Flummery, French... .542 135 Dutch 543 Green 544 Rice 545 136 Floating island of apples568 141 Ditto 569 142 Fomentation 1181 316 Force-meat, balls & eggs 87 28 Pie 255 68 Savoury dish of 80 26 Fondue 287 74 French bread 582 146 Rolls 599 152 Dishes of eggs, see eggs 31 French polish 1236 329 Fritters, apple 424 107 Plain bread ...427 108 Carrot... 435 110 Currant 436 Hasty 437 No. page. Fritters, rice .438 Potato 111 Tansey....... Paste .443 112 Egg. ..... Onion & sage 81 1,85 27 Savoury rice .. . 83 Onion Cheese .292 75 Fritter, minced with mushrooms . 79 26 Frumenty 942, 965 249 Fumigating powder.. 1127 300 G. Gargles for sore throat and quinsey 1141 306 Bilious fevers 1142 307 Gingerbread 700 181 Good without butter 702 Plain 703 182 Orange 705 Excellent rich 706 Traveller’s 707 183 Transparent... .708 Ginger beer 890 235 Do. powders. .1147 308 Syrup 930 246 Drops 1013 269 Lozenges for heart-burn. .1137 305 Glue, rice 1202 321 Gooseberry sauce 226 61 Cream 522 130 Cheese, green 1004 267 Gooseberries, to pre- serve 716 187 to dry 798 206 to bottle 815 210 Gourd soup 19 Gourds, to boil 125 36 Gravy, brown 88 28 Cheap 245 65 Gravel, remedy for.. 1120 298 Grease spots from silk!213 324 Woollen 1214 355 Gripes in infants ....1096 291354 INDEX. No. page. Groat pudding 266 70 Gruel, water 968 256 Rice 969 257 Groat 970 Onion ..........971 Arrow-root 972 Currant 973 Gum-arabic emulsion 1058 280 H. Head-ache .....11079 42 Heart-burn..... 11199 82 Hedgbog .....573 142 Herb Pie... ...252 67 Pudding 276 72 Stewed Pie 256 68 Soup 31 11 Herbs to stew 185 50 to preserve 207 55 Hiccup 1119 298 Hoarseness 1074 282 Hooping-cough 1078 284 Homraony 959 254 Honey, to clarify.... 1009 268 Honey-comb, lemon ..570 142 Hop top soup 33 11 to boil 139 39 Horebound, candied 1012 269 Hysteric fits 1100 292 I. Icing for tarts, &C....488 122 for a cake 674 173 Iceland liverwort.... 1056 279 Imperial 893 236 Inflammation in the stomach 1103 293 in the eyes....1129 301 Indigestion 1138 305 Ink, to prevent turn- ing mouldy ........ 1212 324 Indian pickle 834 217 Iron moulds 1207 323 Irish bread 615 156 Butter 559 139 Plaster 1179 315 No. page. Isinglass jelly 550, 980 259 To clarify ....1008 268 Italian rusks 612 156 Macaroons 699 181 Cheese 560 137 Ivory jelly 549 137 J. Jam, cherry 741 197 Red currant 723 189 Black currant.. .724 190 Gooseberry 721 189 Peach.... 744 197 Black and magnum- bonum plum . .743 Raspberry 720 188 Strawberry 745 198 Rhubarb 1005 258 Jaundice Jelly, apple .746, 755 198 Arrow-root Ditto, with black currants. 976 S58 Barberry .. Blackberry 747 198 Bread Cranberry. 750 199 Cranberry & rice 552 137 Red and black currant. .. ...749 1 99 Damson ... 756 201 Gloucester. 979 259 Hen’s nest in... .553 138 Isinglass... .550,980 137 Ivory 549 Orange .... .554,752 138 Quince ... 754 200 Raspberry . 753 Spanish rice ... .551 137 Potato flour for a weak stomach 977 258 Tapioca, 975 K. Kale, sea, to boil..... 143 40 Kitchen pepper 251 66355 INDEX. No. page. Kidney beans, to boil 135 39 Soup 42 14 to pickle 849 222 King cakes 681 175 L. Lavender water 1053 278 Leaven... ...625 159 Lemon sauce 238 64 Cheesecakes ... .495 124 Cream 524 131 Solid 530 132 Sponge 534 133 Cheese 561 140 Syllabub 564 Posset 565 141 Honeycomb 570 142 Pickle 869 227 Water ...902 238 Juice, to keep..933 246 Essence 998 266 Quintessence of999 266 Drops 1004 269 Whey 1035 275 Beverage 896 236 Salt of. 1206 323 Lemonade 897 237 Portable 918 243 Linen, to take ink spots from 1215 325 Paint from 1216 Mildew 1217 Stains 1218 Linseed cough syrup 1065 280 Liverwort or moss ...1056 279 Loaf, royal 572 142 Lozenges,blackcurrant793 205 for heart-burn 1137 30q M. Macaroons, English..696 180 French 697 Portuguese ... .698 Italian 699 181 Mahogany, to clean. .1233 328 to remove stains 1235 No. sage. Mallows, wild.1102 293 Marking ink 1204 322 Marmalade, apricot...757 201 Apple 758 Quince ........759 Orange. 760 202 Scotch 761 Raspberry 762 Gooseberry ... .763 Marshmallows, decoc- tion of .1057 280 Measles .1081 285 Mildew, to take out. .1217 Milk and water Tasting of turnips887 234 Porridge French Rice Ground rice.. ..949 Millet .......... Sago with Arrowroot with ..952 to mull ..981 259 to preserve . 1018 270 A substitute lor. .1048 277 Baked 1055 279 Asses*, substitute for .1054 Mint sauce Miscellaneous receipts 260 Muffins Yorkshire ... ..609 155 Mush ..958 254 Mushroom patties.. ..268 70 Dumpling ... Pie Sauce Catsup Quintessence of 876 229 Powder Mushrooms .1030 274 and eggs Strwed ditto with toast 153 to broil to grill to fryINDEX. 356 No- page. Mushrooms, to dry ..198 S3 Mustard, to make ....249 66 N. Nassau pudding 372 95 Northumberland ditto 373 do. Norton plum ditto... .381 97 Nottingham apple do. 308 79 Nun’s biscuits 648 166 Nipples, sore, to pre- vent 1180 315 O. Oatcake 621 158 Decoction of ..1087 289 Oatmeal porridge ....938 248 Flummery 940 249 Porridge for in- fants 955 253 Observations on cakes 184 on preserved fruits 212 on pickles .... 230 Oil cloth, to clean.. 1222 326 Oil, to extract from boards 1228 327 Ointment, elder for burns &scaldsl 151 309 Spermaceti...,1161 311 Parsley 1162 Omelets 23 Omelet, common 68 Potato 75 25 Rice 454 114 Sweet 453 with Sorrel ..1023 272 with preserves 1024 Onion soup 25 9 Fritters 82 27 Sauce 228 62 Dumpling .....272 71 Pie 263 69 Gruel 971 257 Onions, to stew 145 41 to roast 147 to ragoo 148 No. page. Onions, to fry .189 51 Bread pudding with .267 70 Orangeade .899 237 Orange-juice .919 243 Orgeat .915 242 P. Panada .953 252 Pancakes, apple .428 108 Apple and cus- tard .429 American .430 109 Gooseberry... .431 Rice .432 Ground rice .. .433 Wafer .434 110 Parkin .710 183 Parsnips, to boil .... .127 37 Parsley, to fry.. .195 52 to crisp .196 Sauce 234, 244 63 Paste, light puff .470 119 Rice for sweets 471 Puff 474,483 120 Rich puff .472 119 for custards .. .475 120 Excellent short 476 Tart or short ..478* Tart, for family pies 479 Sweet crisp tart 480 121 for stringing tart-lits 482 Common pie...484 Plain crust ....485 122 Hot for raised pies 4S6 for cement....1200 321 Polishing, for brass, &c. . .1238 Pasty, fruit or turn- over 465 117 Potato 260 69 Onion and sage 278 72 Patties, mushroom....261 69INDEX. 337 No. page. Pease soups, .from 1 to 18 1 to boil - - - 138 39 to stew - - - 167 46 with lettuce - 169 46 with cream - - 171 47 a mild way - - 172 Pudding - - 275 72 to keep green - 203 54 Pears, to dry - - - 794 205 to preserve - 738 196 to bake - - - 805 208 to stew - - - 808 Pepper, kitchen - - 251 66 Peppermint water - 1051 278 Drops - - 1015 270 Pickles - - - - Pickled red cabbage - 821 do. Mushrooms - 823 do. Elder buds - 825 214 Cauliflowers - 826 do Samphire - - 828 215 Parsley - - - 829 do. Cucumbers - 830 do. Beet roots - - 833 216 Indian pickle - 834 217 White cabbage 836. 818 Onions - - - 837 do. liemons - - - 839 219 Barberries - - 840 do. Radish pods - 842 do. Fennel - - - 843 220 Nasturtiums - 844 do. Codlins - - - 845 do. Melon mangoes 846 221 Cucumber man- goes - - - 847 do. Kidney beans - 849 222 Walnuts- - - 851 223 Savoury pies and pud- dings - - - - Pie* herb - - - - 25 2 Force-meat - - 255 68 Stewed herb - - 256 Potato - - - - 257 Mushroom. - 261 69 Carrot . - - - 262 Mixed vegetable 269> 70 Pie, onion - - - No. page-. • 263 69 Turnip - - - 270 71 Fruit pies and tarts 114 Pie, apple - - - - 455 Pear - - - - 456 115 Gooseberry - - 457 Mince - - - - 458 116 Rhubarb - - - 460 Prune - - - - 461 Macaroni - - - 462 Spinage - - - 463 117 Cranberry - - - 464 Raspberry - - - 466 Orange - - - 467 118 Pies, savoury, raised - 274 71 Plaster for recent cuts. &c. - - - 1154 310 for a sprain - 1155 for a cough - 1157 Ague - - - 1184 316 Strengthening 1185 317 Poisons, remedies for 1135 304 Polenta - - - - 958 254 Polish, French - - 12 Potato bread - - - 576 144 Flour - - - 586 148 Crumpets - - 606 154 Cake - - 614, 623 156 Yeast - - - 632 161 Snow - - - 1026 272 Potatoes, boiled and broiled - - 1025 to boil - - 131 38 to boil, new - 180 49 to hash - 178 48 to stew to hash cold - 178 49 boiled - - 179 to mash - 181 Scolloped - - 182 50 in balls - 183 to roast - - 184 to fry - - - 187 to restore frosted202 54 Porridge, pease - - 63 2j> Onion - - . 64 21 Celery - - - 65358 INDEX. No. page. Porridge,thickoatmeal938 248 Milk - - - 943 250 Egg --- 945 251 Oatmeal for in- fants - - - 955 253 Flour - - - 956 Bread - - - 957 Posset, orange or lemon565 141 Treacle - - 1041 276 Poultice, yeast - - 1169 313 Charcoal - - 1170 Sorrel - - - 1171 Poultice, apple - - 1172 Common - - 1173 314 Carrot- - -1174 Mustard - - 1175 Excellent herb 1176 for boils - - 1177 for gathered breasts - - 1178 315 Powder, for soups - 66 21 Savoury - - 67 53 Mushroom - 200 Blackberry - 1085 288 Fumigating - 1127 300 Tooth - - - 1143 307 Citrate of potash - - 1146 308 Powders, seidlitz - 1144 308 Soda - - - 1145 Ginger beer - 1147 Preserved fruit - - 185 Apricots - - 711 Do. green- - 713 186 Currants - - 714 Gooseberries- 716 Do. green - 717 Damsons - 718 730 188 Strawberries - 719 Fruit for chil- dren - - - 722 189 Fruit for tarts or desserts- 725 190 Wine-sours - 726 Siberian crabs 727 191 Ripe fruit with- out sugar - 728 No. page. Preserved cucumbers 729 192 Cherries - - 733 194 Greeu gages - 735 Seville oranges 736 195 Jargonel pears 738 196 Magnum bonum plums - - 739 Preserves with cream 967 256 Puddings - - - - 77 Pudding, apple - - 298 Dumplings - 299 Baked apple - 309 Green ditto - 304 78 Swiss ditto - 306 79 Nottingham do. 307 Boston - - 308 Apple with cream - - 309 Do. with rice 310 80 Almond - - 311 Apricot - - 313 Arrow-root - 314 Do. boiled - 315 81 Batter - - - 316 Yorkshire - 318 Batter with fruit320 Ditto without eggs - - - 321 82 Black-cap - 322 Bread and rice 323 Baked bread - 324 Small bread - 325 83 Plain boiled bread - - 326 Cheap bread - 328 Hasty bread - 330 Bread & butter 333 Pearl barley - 334 85 Biscuit - - 335 Buttermilk curd336 Cabbage - - 337 S6 Castle - - - 338 Carrot - - - 339 Cheshire - - 341 87 Cheesecake rice 342 Cocoa nut - 343 Charlotte - - 344INDEX, 359 No. page. Puddings, cold - - 345 Cottage - - 346 Cowslip - - 347 Boiled-curd - 348 Cheese-curd - 349 89 Custard - - 350 Cumberland - 352 Damson - - 353 90 Dutch - - - 354 Eve’s - - - 356 Baked goose- berry - - 357 Grateful - 359 George - - 360 German - 361 Hard dumplings362 Flour hasty - 363 Lemon - 364 Ditto - - 365 Macaroni - 370 Millett - - 371 Nassau - 372 Northnmberland373 Oatmeal - Orange - Whittington orange - Oxford dump- ling - PI u rn Salford plum - Norton ditto Good common ditto Carrot - 91 92 93 94 95 374 375 376 96 377 378 380 381 382 383 97 Carrot &. biscuit384 98 Parlour - 385 Parsley - - 386 Potato 387, 388 in haste - 391 99 Quaking - 392 100 Quince - - 393 Raspberry - 394 Common rice 395 Dutch rice - 396 Rice with apples397 101 Rice with raisins432 102 No page Puddings, plain rice 403 Ground rice - 405 Sago - - 406 103 Sandy-Iane - 407 Scalded - 408 Sippet - - 409 Snow balls 410 104 Spinage - 411 Spoonful - 413 Suffolk dump- lings - 414 105 Tansey - - 415 Tapioca - 418 106 Treacle - - 419 Do. dumpling 420 Welsh - - 421 Windsor - 422 107 Vermicelli - 449 113 Devonshire 996 266 Cream sauce for 423 107 Pudding, savoury - 265 70 Groat - 266 Bread with onions - 267 Mushroom - 271 71 Onion - - 272 Potato - 273 Herb - - 276 72 Green bean 277 Puffs, Spanish - 445 112 Cheese-curd - 503 126 Excellent light 504 Q. Queen’s sauce - - - 242 64 Cakes - - - 682 176 Quince Cream - - - 537 134 Quintessence of lemon- peel 999 266 Quinsey, cure for - 1141 306 Embrocation for - - 1163 311 R. Ragout of Eggs - - J10 33 Raised savoury pies - 274 71 Raspberry ice - - - 571 142 Drops - - 1002 267360 INDEX. Ne. page- Raspberry Jam- - -720 188 Jelly - - - - 753 200 Marmalade - - 762 202 Water - - - 997 266 Vinegar- - - 914 241 Restorative, excellentl059 280 Rheumatism 1037 & 1190 317 Remoulade - - - 1031 274 Rhubarb-jam - - 1005 268 Cream - - - 1006 Sherbet - - 1007 Rice pudding, see pud- dings ----- 395 Sauce- - - - 219 60 Soup - - - - 49 16 Eggs - - - - 448 113 and Apples - - 450 Buttered - - - 451 Omelet - - - 454 114 Supper dish - - 452 in puff crust - 502 126 Flummery - - 545 136 Maccaroon - - 960 254 Savoury - - - 961 255 with scotch barley 962 Mucilage - - - 963 Gruel - - - 969 257 Glue - - - - 1202 321 RingWorm - - - 1195 319 Role, blackcurrant 771 204 Elder - - - 772 205, Rolls excellent - - 597 151 with potatoe - 598 French. - - - 599 152 Brentford - - 600 Roux, French - - - 247 65 Rusks ----- 611 156 Italian - - - 612. Common - - - 613 or tops &. bottoms 610 155 Russian yeast - - - 630 161 Sauce - - 224 61 Rust, take fr«m steel 1231 S. Salads ----- 56 for winter - - 208 57 No. p&ge^ Salads, boiled - - - 209 dressing for - 210 Sago with milk - - 951 252 Sally Lun, or bath cake 617 157 Saline Mixtures - - - 194 Salt of lemon - - 1206 323 Salt a cure for epilepsy 1115 29 Salts,, epsom - - - 1083 288 Salve, drawing - - 1164 for burns -- 1152 309 Excellent - 1185 317 Sandwiches - - - 76 Sandwich, cheese- - 293 Egg - - - -293 Beet-root - - 294 Fried egg - - 296 Omelet - - - 297 Savoury pies and pud- dings - - - 67 Rice - - - - 961 255 Powder - - - 67 21 Food - - 78 26 Dish offorce-meat80 Sauces - 59 Sauce, white - 216 60 Rice - - 219 Mushroom 220 221 61 Currants - 222 Piquant - - 223 Russian - 224 Fennel - - 225 Gooseberry - 226 Mint - - 227 62 Onion - - 228 Sage and onien 230 a common - 231 Apple - - 232 63 Bread - - 233 Parsley - 234 244 Caper- - 235 Egg - - 237 64 Lemon - - 23S. Celery - - 239 Cucumber - 241 Queen’s - - 242 Sorrel - 243 65INDEX. 361 No. page. Sauce, thickening for 247 Pudding - - 423 107 Scotch rabbit - 284 74 Burgoo - 1244 332 Short bread - 1245 Scouring drops - 1213 324 Sea-kale, to boil - 143 40 Sea-sickness, to pre- vent - - 1125 299 Seidlitz powders - 1144 308 Seed loaf, common - 616 157 Water - - 1052 278 Senna, an infusion of 1082 285 Sherbet, Eastern bever- age - - 904 238 Do. - - 1047 277 Raspberry and currant - 906 239 Lemon - - 908 Cowslip - 910 240 Orange - - 911 Black currant 912 241 Rhubarb - - 1007 268 to fine - 913 241 to mull - - 982 260 Sick rooms, cautions in visiting - 1128 300 Small-pox - - 1080 284 Snow-balls - - 410 104 Cream - - 526 131 Potato - - 1026 272 Soda Powders - - 1145 308 Solid, apple - - 529 132 Lemon - - 530 Soups - 1 Soup, herb powder - 66 21 Pease, from 1 to 18 lto7 Asparagus 12 4 Potato - - 19 7 Herb - 20, 31 Vegetable 23 8 White - - 24 Onion - 25 9 Cucumber 27 Brown - 28 10 Spring - - 30 Hop-top - 33 11 No. page. Soup, Barley - 34 Good and cheap 35 12 Egg 36 Turnip 37 Carrot - 38 13 Spinage 40 made at Iver, in Bucks. 41 14 Kidney bean - 42 Potato 43 French - 44 15 Vermicelli - 45 Cheese - 47 Excellent - 48 16 Rice - 49 Rice and lentil 50 Savoy cabbage 52 17 Green bean 53 IS Chesnut 54 Milk with almonds 55 Milk - 56 19 Bread 57 Pumpkin 58 Sowins - 939 248 Sponge, cream 532 Raspberry 533 133 Lemon - 534 Spoon-meat 248 Sprains 310 Spinage, to boil 129 37 to stew 163 45 with sorrel - 166 46 Sprouts, to boil - 128 37 Strawberry water - 997 266 Starch 1205 322 Stings of wasps, bees, &c. cure for - 1122 299 Stomach, for pain and weakness in the 1139 306 Sugar, to clarify - 990 262 Ditto, a new me- thod - - 991 263 Ditto, coarse brown - 992 Degrees of boil- ing - 993 264362 index. o. page. Sugar, Milk - . 1016 270 Water - - 1017 299 Swallowing pins, re- medy for - 1123 a wasp, do. 1121298 Syllabubs, wbipt - 563 140 Lemon - - 564 Syrup, elder - 920 243 Mulberry - 921 244 Cherry - 922 Lemon - 923 Clarified - 924 Capillaire - 925 245 Rose - 926 Clove gilliflower 9 28 Vinegar - ' 927 Violet - 929 246 Ginger - - 930 Clove - f 931 Orange-peel - 932 Linseed cough 1065 280 Angelica for In- fluenza - 1073 282 for coughs, &c. 1072 T. Tape-worm - - 1095 291 Tarts, see pies - 114 French - 468 118 Tartlets or pufls481 121 Iceing for fruit 488 122 Tea, foreign, substitutes for - - - 988 266 Thorns and splinters, to draw out - - 1165 311 Thrush - - 1101 293 Toasts, sweet- - 446 112 Spinage - 447 Cheese - - 289 75 Toast and water - 934 247 Sage and onions, with - - 264 69 Toffy, Everton - 1010 269 Treacle - 1011 Tomatas, to bake 154 43 Tooth ache - - 1108 295 Powder - 1143 307 Treacle posset No. pa^e. 1041 276 Trifle, biscuit 546 136 Trifle, Gooseberry - 547 Froth for - 548 Turnips, to boil 154 43 Turnip pie - 270 71 Turner’s cerate for burns, &c. - 1153 309 V. Vegetables 36 Vegetable broth - 61 20 Marrow - - 134 38 Butter for fry- ing - 197 53 Pie - - 269 70 Vermicelli soup 45 15 with milk - 964 255 Pudding - - 449 J13 Vinegar, sugar - 854 225 Gooseberry - 857 225 Cowslip - • 860 do. Primrose - 861 226 from clover flowers 862 do. Raisin - 863 do. from crabs - 864 do. of roses - 865 227 Elder - 866 do. Cucumber 867 do. to strengthen 868 do. Essence of 870 do. in balls - 871 228 Common - 872 do. Raspberry 914 241 Syrup of* - 927 245 Whey - 1035 275 Vomiting, to prevent 1124 299 W. Water porridge - 938 248 Gruel - 968 256 Water, peppermint 1051 27S Seed - 1052 Perfumed laven- der - - 1053 to purify and to soften - 1208 323INDEX. 363 No page Ward’s essence for croup, &c. - 1114 297 Warts, remedy for 1168 313 Wasps and bees, re- medy for stings of 1122 299 Wasp, swallowing a, remedy for - 1121 298 Weak and weeping eves - 1132 301 Welsh rabbit - 282 73 Another - 283 74 Wen, an effectual cure for - - 1166 312 Whey - - - 936 248 Wine, a substitute for - - 1034 275 Alum - 1036 Vinegar or Iemonl035 Mustard, for rheu- matism - 1037 Cream of tartar 1039 Buttermilk - 1040 276 No page Water casks, to clean 1229 Whitworth rubbing bottle - - 1160 311 Wigs - - - 618 157 Worms - 1093 290 Tape - 1095 291 Writings, old, to re- vive - 1211 324 Y. Yeast, to make and preserve - 626 160 Flour or perpe- tual - 627 Russian • 630 161 Potato - - 632 to keep - 634 662 to bleach and purify - 1033 274 Yorkshire cakes - 620 158 Yourt, Turkish - 966 256 Printed by M, Kiernan, at the Academy Press, Salford:X'.i am v j fijpi ■ i :r 7 •* ' ., ;: - :t ■ •?.'* vf: i »<#$« • no It u » u *■*'9 Sill -.,v»,MWn Uf»f I If '»aa • ».* J 7 f { ; <#V ;j Uu) j »Ui ot .iiVW - - X• 4 - ■ 1 ' <u ► - [ - . ; * • 11:J‘ . -. , i * , -A • n .f; ii ■I