724 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Time.—\ hour to boil the isinglass and water; about 10 minutes to stir the mixture in the jug. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 2s. 9d, Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. JELLT MOULDED WITH FBESH FKUIT, or MACEDOINE DE FRUITS. 1440. Ingredients.—Rather more than 1^ pint of jelly, a few nice strawberries, or red or white currants, or raspberries, or any fresh fruit that may be in season. Mode,—Have ready the above proportion of jelly, which must be very clear and rather sweet, the raw fruit requiring an additional quantity of sugar. Select ripe, nice-looking fruit; pick off the stalks, unless currants are used, when they are laid in the jelly as they come from the tree. Begin by putting a little jelly at the bottom of the mould, which must harden; then arrange the fruit round the sides of the mould, recollecting that it will he reversed ivhen turned out; jTELLY MouLBED WITH thcu pour lu somo more jelly to cHERuiEs. make the fruit adhere, and, when that layer is set, put another row of fruit and jelly until the mould is full. If convenient, put it in ice until required for table, then wring a cloth in boiling water, wrap it round the mould for a minute, and turn the jelly carefully out. Peaches, apricots, plums, apples, &c., are better for being boiled in a little clear syrup before they are laid in the jelly; strawberries, raspberries, grapes, cherries, and currants are put in raw. In winter, when fresh fruits are not obtainable, a very pretty jelly may be made with preserved fruits or brandy cherries: these, in a bright and clear jelly, have a very pretty effect; of course, unless the jelly be veri/ clear, the beauty of the dish will be spoiled. It may be garnished with the same fruit as is laid in the jelly ; for instance, an open jelly with straw- berries might have, piled in the centre, a few of the same fruit prettily arranged, or a little whipped cream might be substituted for the fruit Ttm^.—One layer of jelly should remain 2 hours in a very cool place, before another layer is added. Average cost, 2s. Qd. Sufficient, with fruit, to fill a quart mould. Seasonahle, with fresh fruit, from June to October; with dried, at any time.