650 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. i 1 required for table ; then turn it out on the dish, and garnish it with a co?np6te of any fruit that may be preferred, pouring a little over the top of the pudding. This pudding may be flavoured with vanilla, Cura9oa, or Maraschino. Time.—^ hour to freeze the mixture. Seasonable,—Served all the year round. ICED APPLE PUDDING, {French Recipe, after Car erne.) 1290. IiTGEEDiENTS.—2 dozen apples, a small pot of apricot-jam, i lb. of sugar, 1 Seville orange, J pint of preserved cherries, ~ lb. of raisins, 1 oz. of citron, 2 oz. of almonds, 1 gill of Cura9oa, 1 gill of Maraschino, 1 pint of cream. Mode.—VQoi, core, and cut the apples into quarters, and simmer them over the fire until soft; then mix with them the apricot-jam and the sugar, on which the rind of the orange should be previously rubbed; work all these ingredients through a sieve, and put them into the freezing-pot. Stone the raisins, and simmer them in a little syrup for a few minutes; add these, with the sliced ci- tron, the almonds cut in dice, and the cherries drained from their syrup, to the ingredients in the freezicg-pot; put in the Cura^oa and Maraschino, and freeze again; add as much whipped cream as will be required, freeze again, and fill the mould. Put the lid on, and plunge the mould into the ice-pot; cover it with a wet cloth and pounded ice and saltpetre, where it should remain until wanted for table. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a clean and neatly-folded napkin, and serve, as sauce, a little iced whipped cream, in a sauce-tureen or glass dish. Time.--^ hour to freeze the mixture. Seasonable from August to March. Method of loorhing the freezing Apparatus.—Put into the outer pail some pounded ice, upon which strew some saltpetre; then fix the pewter freezing-pot upon this, and surround it entirely with ice and saltpetre. Wipe the cover and edges of the pot, pour in the pre- paration, and close the lid; a quarter of an hour after, begin turning the freezing-pan from right to left, and when the mixture begins to ICE-FEEEZING PAIt.