662 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, . Tune.—i hour before being iced; 5 to 10 minutes after. Average cost. Is. dd. Sufficient—i lb. of puff-paste for 2 dishes. Seaso7iahle at any time. PASTRY SAITDWICHES. 1318. IiTGEEDiEi^TS.—Puff-paste, jam of any kind, the white of an egg, sifted sugar. Mode.—Roll the paste out thin; put half of it on a baking-sheet or tin, andspreadequally over it apricot, greengage, or any preserve that may be preferred. Lay over this preserve another thin paste ; press the edges together all round; and mark the paste in lines with a knife on the surface, to show where to cut it when baked. Bake from 20 minutes to i hour; and, a short time before being done, take the pastry out of the oven, brush it over with the white of an egg, sift over pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to colour. When cold, cut it into strips ; pile these on a dish pyramidically, and serve. These strips, cut about 2 inches long, piled in circular rows, and a plateful of flavoured whipped cream poured in the middle, make a very pretty dish. Time.—20 minutes to \ hour. Average cost^ with ^ lb. of paste, U» Sufficient.—^ lb. of paste will make 2 dishes of sandwiches Seasonable at any time. PETITES BOUCHEES. 1319- Ingeedieitts.—6 oz. of sweet almonds, J lb. of sifted sugar, the rind of \ lemon, the white of 1 egg, puff-paste. Mode,—Blanch the almonds, and chop them fine; rub the sugar on the lemon-rind, and pound it in a mortar; mix this with the almonds and the white of the egg. Roll some puft'-paste out; cut it in any shape that may be preferred, such as diamonds, rings, ovals, &c., and spread the above mixture over the paste. Bake the bouchees in an oven, not too hot, and serve cold. Time.—\ hour, or rather more. Average cost^ Is. Sufficient for 4 lb. of puff-paste. Seasonable at any time. POLISH TARTLETS. 1320. Ingeedients.—Puff-paste, the white of an egg, pounded sugar. Mode.—'Roll some good puff-paste out thin, and cut it into 2^-inch squares; brush each square over with the white of an egg, then fold down the corners, so that they all meet in the middle of each piece of