193 SAUCES^ ETC. and taking out the seeds. Put them in a stewpan with the white stock and seasoning*; simmer gently till the cucumhers are tender, which will he in about ^ hour. Then add the yolks of the eggs well beaten ; stir them to the sauce, but do not allow it to boil, and serve very hot. Time.—Altogether, i hour. CUCUMBEB VINEaAR (a very nice Addition to Salads). 401. Ingredients.—10 large cucumbers, or 12 smaller ones, 1 quart of vinegar, 2 onions, 2 shalots, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 2 table- spoonfuls of pepper, J teaspoonful of cayenne. Mode.—Pare and slice the cucumbers, put them in a stone jar or wide-mouthed bottle, with the vinegar; slice the, onions and shalots, and add them, with all the other ingredients, to the cucumbers. Let it stand 4 or 5 days, boil it all up, and when cold, strain the liquor through a piece of muslin, and store it away in small bottles well sealed. This vinegar is a very nice addition to gravies, hashes, &c., as well as a great improvement to salads, or to eat with cold meat. GEBMAH METHOD OF KEEPING- CUCUMBERS FOR WIMTBR USE. 402. Ingredients.—Cucumbers, salt. Mode.—Pare and slice the cucumbers (as for the table), sprinkle well with salt, and let them remain for 24 hours ; strain oif the liquor, pack in jars, a thick layer of cucumbers and salt alternately ; tie down closely, and, when wanted for use, take out the quantity re- quired. Now wash them well in fresh water, and dress as usual with pepper, vinegar, and oil. The Cucumber.—Though the melon is far superior in point of flavour to this fruit, yet it is allied to the cucumber, which is know^n to naturalists as Cucumis sativus. The modern Egyptians, as did their fore- ^j,^ C'^^cuiibe'R fathers, still eat it, and others of its class. Cucumbers " ^ ^'^ were observed, too, by Bishop Heber, beyond the Gauges, in India; and Burchhardfc noticed them in Palestine. {See No. 137.) AKT EXCELLENT WAY OF PHESEBVIITa CUCUMBERS. 403. Ii^GEEDiENTS.—Salt and water; 1 lb. of lump sugar, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 oz. of ginger, cucumbers. 3Iode.—Choose the greenest cucumbers, and those that are most free from seeds; put them in strong salt and water, with a cabbage- o