159 nsn. Average cost, from Is. to 2s. per pair. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. This will be found a most delicate and delicious dish. The Sole a favourite with the Ancient Greeks.—This fish was much sought after by the ancient Greeks on account of its light and nourishing qualities. The brill, the flounder, the diamond and Dutch plaice, which, with the sole, were known under the general name ot'passeres, were all equally esteemed, and had generally the same qualities attributed to them. FILLETED SOLES A L'lTALIEEnSTE. 324. Ingeedients.—2 soles; salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste ; egg and bread crumbs, butter, the juice of 1 lemon. Mode.—Skin, and carefully wash the soles, separate the meat from the bone, and divide each fillet in two pieces. Brush them over with white of egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs and seasoning, and put them in a baking-dish. Place small pieces of butter over the whole, and bake for i hour. When they are nearly done, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve on a dish, with Italian sauce (see Sauces) poured over. Time.—^ hour. Average cost, from 1^. to 2s. per pair. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. "Whtting may be dressed in the same manner, and will be found very delicious. The Flavour op the Sole.—This, as a matter of course, greatly depends on the nature of the ground and bait upon which the animal feeds , Its natural food are small crabs and shell-fish. Its colour also depends on the colour of the ground where it feeds ; for if this be white, then the sole is called the white, or lemon sole; but if the bottom be muddy, then it is called the black sole. Small-sized soles, caught in shallow water on the coasts, are the best in flavour. PBICASSEED SOLES. 325. Ikgeedients.—2 middling-sized soles, 1 small one, i tea- spoonful of chopped lemon-peel, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little grated bread; salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; 1 egg, 2 oz. butter, i pint of good gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of port wine, cayenne and lemon-juice to taste. Mode.—Yrj the soles of a nice brown, as directed in recipe No. 327, and drain them well from fat. ' Take all the meat from the small sole, chop it fine, and mix with it the lemon-peel, parsley, bread, and seasoning; work altogether, with the yolk of ai?. egg and the butter; make this into,small balls, and fry them. Thicken the gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour, add the port wine, cayenne, and lemon-