458 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Time,—A. large fowl, 1 hour. Average cost, in full season, 2s. Qd. Suficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seascnahle all the year, but scarce in early spring. The DoRKiwa.—This bird takes its name from tliat of a town in Surrey, where the breed is to be found in greater numbers, and certainly in greater perfection, than else- where. It is generally believed that this particular branch of poultry was found in the town above mentioned as long aga as the Roman era. The Dorking's chief characteristic is that he has five claws on each foot; the extra claw, however, is never of sufficient length to encumber the foot, or to cause it to "drag" its nest, or scratch out the eggs. The colour of the true Dorking is pure white; long in the body, short in the legs, and a prolific layer. Thirty years ago, there was much eontrovers}' respecting the ori- gin of the Dorking. The'men of Sussex declared that the bird belonged to them, and brought birds indigenous to their weald, and possessing all the Dorking fine points and peciiliarities, in proof of the declaration. Others inclined to the belief that the Poland bird was the father of the Dorking, and not without at least a show of reason, as the former bird much resembles the latter in shape ; and, despite its sombre hue, it is well known that the Poland cock will occasionally beget thorough white stock from white English hens. The commotion has, hovrever, long ago subsided, and Dorking still retains its fair reputation for fowl, CTIBBIED FOWL. 941. Ingeedients.—1 fowl, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions sliced, 1 pint of white veal gravy, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 apple, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of lemon* juice. Mode.—Put the butter into a stewpan, with the onions sliced, the fowl cut into small joints, and the apple peeled, cored, and minced. Fry of a pale brown, add the stock, and stew gently for 20 minutes; rub down the curry-powder and flour with a little of the gravy, quite smoothly, and stir this to the other ingredients; simmer for rather more than i hour, and just before serving, add the above proportion of hot cream and lemon-juice. Serve with boiled rice, which may either be heaped lightly on a dish by itself, or put round the curry as a border. Time.—50 minutes. Average cost, Zs. Sd, Svficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in the winter. Ncie.—This curry may be made of cold chicken, but undressed meat will be found far superior. . The Poland.—This bu-d, a native of Holland, is a great favourite with fowl-keepers, especially those who have an eye to profit rather than to amusement. Those varieties known as the "silver spangled" and the "gold spangled" are handsome enough to please the most fastidious ; but the common black breed, with the bushy crown of wliit© leathers, is but a plain bird. The chief value of the common Poland lies in the great