45 INTRODUCTION TO COOKERY. gradually poured, stirring all the time a glass of broth, little by little. It may be used with the feather of a quill, to colour meats, such as the upper part of fricandeaux r and to impart colour to sauces. Caramel made with water instead of stock may be used to colour comjpCtcs and other entremets. Casserole.—A crust of rice, which, after having been moulded into the form of a pie, is baked, and then filled with a fricassee of white meat or a pur^e of game. Compote.—A stew, as of fruit or pigeons. Consomme.—Rich stock, or gravy. Croquette.—Ball of fried rice or potatoes. Croutons.—Sippets of bread. Daubii^ire.—An oval stev/pan, in which daubcs are cooked; dauhes being meat or fowl stewed in sauce. DiisosSER.—To lone, or take out the bones from poultry, game, or fish. This is an operation requiring considerable experience. Entrees.—Small side or corner dishes, served with the first course. Entremets.—Small side or corner dishes, served with the second course. Escalopes.—CoUops ; small, -ound, thin pieces of tender meat, or of fish, beaten with the handle of a strong knife to make them tender. Feuilletage.—Puff-paste. Flamber.—To singe fowl or game, after they have been picked. FoNCER.—To put in the bottom of a saucepan slices of ham, veal, or thin broad slices of bacon. Galette.—A broad thin cake. Gateau.—A cake, correctly speaking; but used sometimes to denote a pudding and a kind of tart. Glacer.—To glaze, or spread upon hot meats, or larded fowl, a thick and rich sauce or gravy, called glaze. This is laid on with a feather or brush, and in confectionary the term means to ice fruits and pastry vdth sugar, which glistens on hardening. Hors-d'(EUVRES,—Small dishes, or assiettes volantes of sardines, anchovies, and other relishes of this kind, served to the guests during the first course. {See Assiettes volantes.) Lit.—A bed or layer; articles in thin slices are jDlaced in layers, other articles, or seasoning, being laid between them. Maigre.—Broth, soup, or gravy, made without meat. Matelote.—A rich fish-stew, which is generally composed of carj?, eels, trout, or barbel. It is made with wine. Mayonnaise.—Cold sauce, or salad dressing. Menu.—The bill of fare. Meringue.—A kind of icing, made of whites of eggs and sugar, well beaten.