SOUP, BROTH, AND BOUILLON. 91. It has been asserted, that English cookery is, nationally speakini^, far from being the best in the world. More than this, we have been frequently told by brilliant foreign writers, half philosophers, half chefs, that we are the worst cooks on the face of the earth, and that the proverb which alludes to the divine origin of food, and the precisely opposite origin of its preparers, is peculiarly applicable to us islanders. Not, however, to the inhabitants of the whole island ; for, it is stated in a work which treats of culinary operations,, north of the Tweed, that the broth" of Scotland claims, for excellence and wholesomeness, a very close second place to the bouillon, or common soup of France. Three hot meals of broth and meat, for about the price of one: roasting joint," our Scottish brothers and sisters get, they say ; and we hasten to assent to what we think is now a very well-ascertained fact. We are glad to note, however, that soups of vegetables, fish, meat, and game, are now very frequently found in the homes of the English middle classes, as well as in the mansions of the wealthier and more aristocratic ; and we take this to be one evidence, that we are on the right road to an improvement in our system ot cookery. One great cause of many of the spoilt dishes and badly-cooked:^^ meats which are brought to our tables, arises, we think, and most will: agree with us, from a non-acquaintance with common, every-day things." Entertaining this view, we intend to preface the chapters of this work with a simple scientific resume of all those causes and circumstances which relate to the food we have to prepare, and the theory and chemistry of the various culinary operations. Accordingly, this is the proper place to treat of the, quality of the flesh of animals, and describe some of the circumstances which influence it for good or bad. We will, therefore, commence with the circumstance of age, and examine how far tliis afiects the quality of meat. 92. During the period between the Birth and Maturity op Animals, their flesh undergoes very considerable changes. For instance, when the animal is young, the fluids which the tissues of the muscles contain, possess a large proportion of what is called alhunien. This albumen, which is also the chief component of the white of eggs, possesses the peculiarity of coagulating or hardening at a certain temperature, like the white of a boiled egg, into a soft, white fluid, no longer soluble, or capable of being dissolved in water. As animals grow older, this peculiar animal matter gradually decreases, in proportion to the other constituents of the juice of the flesh. Thus, the reason why veal, lamb, and young pork are white, and without gravy when cooked, is, that the large quantity of albumen they contain hardens, or becomes coagulated. On the other hand, the reason why beef and muttoa E I