MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 656 MARLBOROUGH PUDDING. 1304. Ingeedients.—I; lb. of butter, ~ lb. of powdered lump sugar, 4 eggs, puff-paste, a layer of any kind of jam. JibfZc—Beat tlie butter to a cream, stir in the powdered sugar, whisk the eggs, and add these to the other ingredients. When these arc well mixed, line a dish with puff-paste, spread over a layer of any kind of jam that may be preferred, pour in the mixture, and bake the pudding for rather more than i hour. JYme.—Eather more than J hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MARMAIiADS AND VERMICELLI PUDDING. 1305. Ingeedients.—1 breakfastcupful of vermicelli, 2 tablespoon- fuls of marmalade, 5 lb. of raisins, sugar to taste, 3 eggs, milk. llode.—Pour some boiling milk on the vermicelli, and let it remain covered for 10 minutes; then mix with it the marmalade, stoned raisins, sugar, and beaten eggs. Stir all well together, put the mixture into a buttered mould, boil for 1-J hour, and serve with custard sauce. Tvne.—H hour. Average cost. Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MARROW DUMPLINGS, to serve witli Roast Meat, in Soup, "with. Salad, &e. (German Recii^e.) 1306. Ingeedients.—1 oz. of beef marrovtr, 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, 2 penny rolls, 1 teaspoonful of minced onion, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, salt and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Beat the marrow and butter together to a cream; well whisk the eggs, and add these to the other ingredients. "When they are well stirred, put in the rolls, which should previously be well soaked in boiling milk, strained, and beaten up with a fork. Add the remain- ing ingredients, omitting the minced onion where the flavour is very much disliked, and form the mixture into small round dumplings. Drop these into boiling broth, and let them simmer for about 20 minutes or i hour. They may be served in soup, with roast meat, or with salad, as in German5^ where they are more frequently sent to table than in this countrj^ They are very good. Time.—20 minutes to i hour. Average cost, 6d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. BAKED OR BOILED MARROW PUDDING. 1307. Ijs^geediejS^ts.—^} pint of bread crumbs, H pint of milk, 6 oz.