PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. little favour amongst the insvilated inhabitants of Great Britain. Here, from the simple suet dumpling up to the most complicated Christmas production, the grand feature of substantiality is primarily attended to. Variety in the ingredients,, we think, is held only of secondary consideration with the great body of the people, provided that the whole is agreeable and of sufficient abundance. 1179. Although from Puddings to Pastry is but a step, it requires a higher degree of art to make the one than to make the other. Indeed, pastry is one of the most important branches of the culinary science. It unceasingly occupies itself with ministering pleasure to the sight as well as to the taste; with erecting graceful monuments, miniature fortresses, and all kinds of architectural imitations, composed of the sweetest and most agreeable products of all climates and countries. At a very early period, the Orientals were acquainted with the art of manipulating in pastry; but they by no means attained to the taste, variety, and splendour of design, by which it is characterized amongst the moderns. At first it generally consisted of certain mixtures of flour, oil, and honey, to which it was confined for centuries, even among the southern nations of the European continent. At the com- mencement of the middle ages, a change began to take place in the art of mixing it. Eggs, butter, and salt came into repute in the making of paste, which was forthwith used as an inclosure for meat, seasoned with spices. This advance attained, the next step was to inclose cream, fruit, and mar- malades ; and the next, to build pyramids and castles; when the summit of the I art of the pastry-cook may be su^Dposed to have been achieved. I DIRECTIONS IN CONNECTION Y7ITH THE MAKING OF PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 1180. A few general remarks respecting the various ingredients of Y/liich puddings and pastry are composed, may be acceptable as preliminary to tlie recipes in this department of Household Management. I 1181. Flour should be of the best quality, and perfectly dry, and I sifted before being used; if in the least damp, the paste made from I it -will certainly be heavy. 1 1182. Butter, unless fresh is used, should be washed from the salt, land well squeezed and wrung in a cloth, to get out all the water and buttermilk, which, if left in, assists to make the paste heavy. I