MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. m IiOm OF VEAL AXJ BECHAMEL (Cold Meat Cookery). 887. Ingredients.—Loin of veal, i teaspoonful of minced lemon- peel, rather more than i pint of Bechamel or white sauce. Mode.—A. loin of veal which has come from table with very little taken off, answers very well for this dish. Cut off the meat from the inside, mince it, and mix with it some minced lemon-peel; put it into sufficient Bechamel to warm through. In the mean time, wrap the joint in buttered paper, and place it in the oven to warm. When thoroughly hot, dish the mince, place the loin above it, and pour over the remainder of the Bechamel. Time.—l-k hour to warm the meat in the oven. Seasonable from March to October. LOIW OF VEAL, a la Daube. 888. Ingredients.—The chump end of a loin of veal, forcemeat 1^0. 417, a few slices of bacon, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, i teaspoonful of whole white pepper, 1 pint of veal stock or water, 5 or 6 green onions. Mode,—Cnt off the chump from a loin of veal, and take out the bone; fill the cavity with forcemeat K"o. 417, tie it up tightly, and lay it in a stewpan with the bones and trimmings, and cover the veal with a few slices of bacon. Add the herbs, mace, pepper, and onions, and stock or water; cover the pan with a closely-fitting lid, and simmer for 2 hours, shaking the stewpan occasionally. Take out the bacon, herbs, and onions ; reduce the gravy, if not already thick enough, to a glaze, with which glaze the meat, and serve with tomato, mushroom, or sorrel sauce. Tiine.—2 hours. Average costy 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from March to October, MINCED VEAL, with Bechamel Sauce (Cold Meat Cookery). {Very Good.) 889. Ingredients.—The remains of a fillet of veal, 1 pint of Bechamel sauce No. 367, i teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, force- meat balls. Mode.—Cut—but do not chop—a few slices of cold roast veal as finely as possible, sufficient to make rather more than 1 lb., weighed after being minced. Ma.ke the above proportion of Bechamel, by recipe IS'o. 367 ; add the lemon-peel, put in the veal, and let the