MODERN nOUSEnOLD COOKERY. 568 TO DRESS CUCUMBERS. 1111. IngeedieIs^ts.—3 tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste ; cucumber. 3Iode.—Pare the cucumber, cut it equally into veri/ thin slices, and CGmmence cutting from the ^A/cZ; end; if commenced at the stalk, the cucumber will most likely have an exceedingly bitter taste, far from agreeable. Put the slices into a dish, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and pour over oil and vinegar in the above proportion; turn the cucumber about, and it SLICED cucuMBEBs. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^ favourito accom- paniment to boiled salmon, is a nice addition to all descriptions of salads, and makes a pretty garnish to lobster salad. Average cost^ when scarce, Is. to 25. 6d.; when cheapest, may be had for 'id. each. Seasonable.—Foreed from the beginning of March to the end of June; in full season in July, August, and September. Geographical Distribution" of Cucumbers.—This family is not known in the frigid zone, is somewhat rare in the temperate, but in the tropical and warmer regions throughout the world they are abundant. They are most plentiful in the continent of Hindostan; but in America are not near so plentiful. Many of the kinds supply cucuiiBER. useful articles of consumption for food, and others are actively medicinal in their virtues. Generally speaking, c!olicate stomachs should avoid tliis plant, for it is cold and indigestible. CUCUMBERS A LA POULETTE. 1112. Ingeedients.—2 or 3 cucumbers, salt and vinegar, 2 oz. of butter, flour, J pint of broth, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, a lump of sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Vare and cut the cucumbers into slices of an equal thick- ness, and let them remain in a pickle of salt and vinegar for | hour; then drain them in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with the butter. Fry them over a brisk fire, but do not brown them, and then dredge over them a little flour; add the broth, skim off all the fat, which will rise to the surface, and boil gently until the gravy is somewhat reduced; but the cucumber should not be broken. Stir in the yolks of the eggs, add the parsley, sugar, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; bring the whole to the poitit of hoiling^ and serve. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour. Average costj when cheapest, id. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in July, August, and September; but may be had, forced,, from the beginning of March. 1