396 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, with the remaining ingredients to the sausage-meat, and when thoroughly'mixed, either put the meat into skins, or, when wanted for table, form it into little cakes, which should be floured and fried. Average cost, for this quantity, 2s. Qd. Sufficient for about 30 moderate-sized sausages. Seaso7iable from October to March. The Hog inr England.—rrom time immemorial, in England, this animal has been esteemed as of the highest importance. In the Anglo-Saxon period, vast herds of swine v/ere tended by men, who watched over their safety, and who collected them under shelter at night. At that time, the flesh of the animal was the staple article of con- sumption in every family, and a large portion of the wealth of the rich freemen of the country consisted of these animals. Hence it was common to make bequests of swine, with lands for their support; and to these were attached rights and privileges in con- nection with their feeding, and the extent of woodland to be occupied by a given number was granted in accordance with established rules. This is proved by an ancient Saxon grant, quoted by Sharon Turner, in his History of the Anglo-Saxons," where the right of pasturage is conveyed in a deed by the follovfing Avords:—'' I give food for seventy swine in that woody allotmont which the countrymen call Wolferdinlegh," FBIED SAUSAGES. 838. Ingredients.—Sausages ; a small piece of butter. Jfof/e.—Prick the sausages with a fork (this prevents them from bursting), and put them into a frying-pan with a small piece of butter. Keep moving the pan about, and turn the sausages 3 or 4 times. In from 10 to 12 minutes they will be sufficiently cooked, unless they are very large, when a little more time should be allowed for them. Dish them with or without a piece of toast under them, and serve very hot. In some counties, sausages are boiled and served on toast. They should be plunged into boiling water, and simmered for about 10 or 12 minutes. Time.—10 to 12 minutes. Average cost, IQd, per lb. Seasonable.—Good from September to March. Hote.—Sometimes, in close warm weather, sausages very soon turn sour; to prevent this, put them in the oven for a few minutes with a small piece of butter to keep them moist. When wanted for table, they will not require so long frying as uncooked sausages. The Saxon Swineherd.—The men employed in herdiug swine during the Anglo- Saxon i^eriod of our history were, in general, thralls or born slaves of the soil, who were assisted by powerful dogs, capable even of singly contending with the wolf until his master came wdth his spear to the rescue. In the " Ivanhoe" of Sir Walter Scott, wc have an admirable picture, in the character of Gurth, an Anglo-Sason swineherd, as we also have c)f his master, a large lauded proprietor, a great portion of whose wealth consisted of swine, and whose rude but plentiful board was liberally supphed with the flesh. SAUSAGE-MEAT CAKES. 839. Ikgeedients.—-To every lb. of lean pork, add % lb. of fat bacon,