HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 971 2216. The Trater given to ahorse merits some attention ; it sbonld not be too cold; hard water is not to he recommended ; stagnant or muddy water is positively injurious; river water is the best for all purposes ; and anything is preferable to spring water, which should be exposed to the sun in summer for an hour or two, and stirred up before using it: a handful of oatmeal thrown into the pail will much improve its quality. 2217. Shoeing.—A horse should not be sent on a journey or any other hard work imme- diately after new shoeir.gr;—the stiffness incidental to new shoes is not unlikely to bring him down. A day's rest, with reasonable exercise, will not be thrown away after this operation. On reaching home very hot, the groom should walk him about for a few minutes ; this done, he should take off the moisture with the scraper, and afterwards wisp him over with a handful of straw and a flannel cloth : if the cloth is dipped in some spirit, all the better. He should wash, pick, and wipe dry the legs and feet, take off the bridle and crupper, and fasten it to the rack, then the girths, and put a wisp of strawunder the saddle. When sufficiently cool, the horse should have some hay given him, and then a feed of oats: if he refuse the latter, offer him a little wet bran, or a handful of oatmeal in tepid water. When he has been fed, he should be thoroughly cleaned, and his body- clothes put on, and, if veiy much harassed with fatigue, a little good ale or wine will be well bestowed on a valuable horse, adding plenty of iresh litter under the belly. 2218. Bridles.—Every time ahorae is unbridled, the bit should be carefully washed and dried, and the leather wiped, to keep them sweet, as well as the girths and saddle, the latter being carefully dried and beaten with a switch before it is again put on. In wash- ing a horse's feet after a day's work, the master should insist upon the legs and feet being washed thoroughly with a sponge until the water flows over them, and then rubbed with a brush till quite dry. 2219. Harness, if not carefully preserved, very soon gets a shabby tarnished appearance. Where the coachman has a proper hai'ness-room and sufficient assistance, this is in- excusable and easily prevented. The harness-room should have a wooden lining all round, and be perfectly dry and well ventilated. Around the walls, hooks and pegs should be placed, for the several pieces of harness, at such a height as topi'event their touching the ground ; and every part of the harness should have its pe^ or hook,—one for the halters, another for the reins, and others for snafiles and other bits and metal-work; and either a wooden horse or saddle-trees for the saddles and pads. All these parts should be dry, clean, and shining. This is only to be done by careful cleaning and polishing, and the use of several requisite pastes. The metallic parts, when white, should be cleaned by a soft brush and plate-powder ; the copper and brass parts burnished with rottenstone- powder and oil,—steel with emery-powder; both made into a paste with a little oil. 2220. An excellent paste for polishing harness and the leather-work of carriages, is made by melting 8 lbs. of yellow wax, stirring it till completely' dissolved. Into this pour 1 lb. of litharge of the shops, which has been pounded up with water, and dried and sifted through a sieve, leaving the two, when mixed, to simmer on the fire, stirring them con- tinually till all ismelted. When it is a little cool, mix this with l^lb. of good ivory-black j place this again on the lire, and stir till it boils anew, and suffer it to cool. When cooled a little, add distilled turpentine till it has the consistence of a thiekish paste, scenting it vrith any essence at hand, thinning it when necessary from time to time, by adding dis- tilled turpentine. 2221. When the leather is old and greasy, it should be cleaned before applying thia polish, with a brush wetted in a weak solution of potass and water, washing afterwards with soft river water, and drying thoroughly. If the leather is not black, one or two coats of black ink may be given before applying the polish. When quite dry, the varnish should be laid on with a soft shoe-brush, using also a soft brush to polish the leather. 2222. When the leather is very old, it may be softened with fish-oil, and, after putting on the ink, a sponge charged wjith distilled turpentine passed over, to scour the surfaM of the leather, which should be polished as above. 2223. For foii-n or yelJow-coloiired leailier,W&e a quart of skimmed milk, pour into it 1 oz. of sulphuric acid, and, when cold, add to it 4oz. of hydrochloric acid, shaking the bottle gently until it ceases to emit white vapours; separate the coagulated from the liquid part, by straining through a sieve, and store it away tiU required. In applying it, clean the leather by a weak solution of oxalic acid, washing it off immediately, and apply the composition when dry with a sponge. 222i. Wheel-grease is usually purchased at the shops; but a good paste is made as follows :—jMelt 80 parts of grease, and stir into it, mixing it thoroughly and smoothly, 20 parts of line black-lead in powder, and store away in a tin box for use. Th'S grease is used in the mint at Paris, and is highly approved.