120 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Sounds in" CoDrisn.—These are the air or swimming bladders, by means of which the fishes are enabled to ascend or descend in the water. In the Newfoundland fishery they are taken out previous to incipient putrefaction, washed from their sUme and salted for exportation. The tongues are also cured and packed up in barrels; hilst, from the livers, considerable quantities of oil are extracted, this oil having been found possessed of the most nourishing properties, and particularly beneficial in cases of pulmonary afiections. O O D P I E. (^conomtcaL) I. 235. Ijn^geedients.—Any remains of cold cod, 12 oysters, sufficient melted butter to moisten it; mashed potatoes enough to fill up the dish. Mode.—Flake the fish from the bone, and carefully take away all the skin. Lay it in a pie-dish, pour over the melted butter and oysters (or oyster sauce, if there is any left), and cover with mashed potatoes. Bake for i an hour, and send to table of a nice brown colour. Time.— § hour. Seasoiiahle from November to March. II. 236. Ingeedients.—2 slices of cod; pepper and salt to taste; J a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg", 1 large blade of pounded mace, 2 oz. of butter, | pint of stock No. 107, a paste crust {see Pastry). For sauce, 1 tablespoonful of stock, J pint of cream or milk, thickening of flour or butter; lemon-peel chopped very fine to taste; 12 oysters. Mode.—Lay the cod in salt for 4 hours, then wash it and place it in a dish; season, and add the butter and stock; cover with the crust, and bake for 1 hour, or rather more. Now make the sauce, by mixing the ingredients named above; give it one boil, and pour it into the pie by a hole made at the top of the crust, which can easily be covered by a small piece of pastry cut and baked in any fanciful shape—such as a leaf, or otherwise. Time.—1| hour. Average cost, with fresh fish, 25. 6c?. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 6 persons. Note.—^The remains of cold fish may be used for this pio. CUBKIED COD. 237. Ingredients.—2 slices of large cod, or the remains of any cold fish; 3 oz. of butter, 1 onion sliced, a teacupful of white stock, thick-