MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 796 allow the above proportion of loaf sugar. Boil the juice and sugar together for about | hour; remove all the scum as it rises, and, when the jelly appears firm when a little is poured on a plate, it is done. The residue left on the sieve will answer to make a common marma- lade, for immediate use, by boiling it with | lb. of common sugar to every lb. of pulp. Time,—3 hours to boil the quinces in water; f hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, from 8d. to 10^7. per lb. pot. Seasonable from August to October. QUINCE MABMAIiADE. 1586. Ikgeedients.—To every lb. of quince pulp allow % lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.Slice the quinces into a preserving-pan, adding sufficient water for them to float ; place them on the fire to stew, until reduced to a pulp, keeping them stirred occasionally from the bottom, to prevent their burning ; then pass the pulp through a hair sieve, to keep back the skin and seeds. Weigh the pulp, and to each lb. add lump sugar in the above proportion, broken very small. Place the whole on the fire, and keep it well stirred from the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon, until reduced to a marmalade, which may be known by dropping a little on a cold plate, when, if it jellies, it is done. Put it into jars whilst hot; let it cool, and cover with pieces of oiled paper cut to the size of the mouths of the jars. The tops of them may be afterwards covered with pieces of bladder, or tisssue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Time.—3 hours to boil the quinces without the sugar; f hour to boil the pulp with the sugar. Average cost, from Sd. to 9d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow 1 pint of sliced quinces for a lb. pot. Seasonable in August, September, and October. I BAISIN* CHEESE. " 1587. Inoeedieij^ts.—To every lb. of raisins allow | lb. of loaf sugar; pounded cinnamon and cloves to taste. Mode.—Stone the raisins ; put them into a stewpan with the sugar, cinnamon, and cloves, and let them boil for H- hour, stirring all the time. Let the preparation cool a little, pour it into a glass dish, and garnish with strips of candied lemon-peel and citron. This will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient,—1 lb. for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time.