CAME. The Landeail, oe Cohn-Crake.—This bird is migratory in its habits, yet from its formation, it seems ill adapted for long atrial passages, its wings being short, and placed so forward out of the centre of gravity, that it flies in an extremely heavy and embarrassed manner, and with its legs hanging down. "When it alights, it can hardly be sprung a second time, as it runs very fast, and seems to depend for its safety more on the swiftness of its feet than the ■celerity of its wings. It makes its appear- ance in England about the same time as the quail, that is, in the months of April and May, and frequents the same places. Its singular cry is first heard when the grass becomes long enough to shelter it, and it continues to be heard until the grass is cut. The bird, however, is seldom seen, for it constantly skulks among the thickest portions of the herbage, and runs so nimbly through it, doubling and winding in every direction, that it is difficult to get near it. It leaves this island before the winter, and repairs to other countries in search of its food, which principally consists of slugs, large numbers of which it destroys. It is very common in Ireland, and, whilst migrating to this country, is seen in great numbers in the island of Anglesea. On its first arrival in England, it is so lean as scarcely to weigh above five or six o'iinces; before its departure, however, it has been known to exceed eight ounces, and ia then most delicious eating. THE LANDKAIIr. TO DBESS A LEVERET. 1034. Ingeedients.—2 leverets, butter, flour. Mode.—Leverets should be trussed in the same manner as a hare, hut they do not require stuffing. Roast them before a clear fire, and keep them well basted all the time they are cooking. A few minutes before serving, dredge them lightly with flour, and froth them nicely. Serve with plain gravy in the dish, and send to table red-currant jelly with them. Time.—^ to f hour. Average cost, in full season, 4s. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from May to August, but cheapest in July and August, BROILED PARTRIDGE (a Lunclieon, Breakfast, or Supper Dish). 1035. Ingeedients.—3 partridges, salt and cayenne to taste, a small piece of butter, brown gravy or mushroom sauce. Mode.—Thick, draw, and cut the partridges in half, and wipe the inside thoroughly with a damp cloth. Season them with salt and cayenne, broil them over a very clear fire, and dish them on a hot dish; rub a small piece of butter over each half, and send them to table with brown gravy or mushroom sauce. lYme.—About I hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. a brace. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from the Ist of September to the beginning of February.