792 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, Time.—3 to 4 hours. Average cost, Is. Q>d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to January. The Bon Chketien Peak.—The valuable variety of pear called Bon Chretien, which comes to our tables in winter, either raw or cooked, received its name through the fol- lowing incident:—Louis XI., king of France, had sent for Saint Francois de Paule from the lower part of Calabria, in the hopes of recovering his health through his intercession. The saint brought with him the seeds of this pear; and, as he was called at court Le Bon Chretien^ this fruit obtained the name of him to whom France owed ita introduction. PINEAPPLE CHIPS. 1577. Ingredients.—Pineapples ; sugar to taste. Mode.—VsiXQ and slice the fruit thinly, put it on dishes, and strew over it plenty of pounded sugar. Keep it in a hot closet, or very slow oven, 8 or 10 days, and turn the fruit every day until dry; then put the pieces of pine on tins, and place them in a quick oven for 10 mi- nutes. Let them cool, and store them away in dry boxes, with paper between each layer. Time.—8 to 10 days. Seasonable,—Foreign pines, in July and August. PEE SERVED PINE APPLE. 1578. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit, weighed after being pared, allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar; i pint of water. 3focle.—The pines for making this preserve should be perfectly sound but ripe. Cut them into rather thick slices, as the fruit shrinks very much in the boiling. Pare off the rind carefully, that none of the pine be wasted ; and, in doing so, notch it in and out, as the edge cannot be smoothly cut without great waste. Dissolve a portion of the sugar in a preserving-pan with 5 pint of water ; when this is melted, gradually add the remainder of the sugar, and boil it until it forms a clear syrup, skimming well. As soon as this is the case, put in the pieces of pine, and boil well for at least i hour, or until it looks nearly transparent. Put it into pots, cover down when cold, and store away in a dry place. Time.—i hour to boil the fruit. Average cost, 10c?. to Is. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—Foreign pines, in July and August. The Pineapple in Heathendom,—Heathen nations invented protective divinities for their orchards (such as Pomona, Vertumnus, Priapus, &c.), and benevolent patrons for their fruits : thus, the olive-tree grew under the auspices of Minerva; the Muses cherished the palm-tree, Bacchus the lig and grape, and the pine and its cone were coiise- crated to trie great Cyhele. PKESEBVED PINEAPPLE, for Present Use. 1579. Ingredients.—Pineapple, sugar, water. 3Iode,—Cut the pine into slices i inch in thickness ; peel them, and remove the hard part from the middle. Put the parings and hard