6G1 PUDDINGS AND TASTKY. when the icing looks crisp, they are done. Arrange them, piled high in the centre, on a white napkin, and garnish the dish, and in between the tartlets, with strips of bright jelly, or very firmly-made preserve. Time.—20 minutes to bake the tartlets ; 5 minutes after being iced. Average cost, exclusive of the paste, Is. Sufficient to fill 10 or 12 tartlets. Seasoncihle at any time. Note.—The icing may be omitted on the top of the tartlets, and a spoonful of any kind of preserve put at the bottom of the custard instead ; this varies both the flavour and appearance of this dish. ALMOND PLOWEKS. i3i^>. Ingeedients.—Puff-paste Iso. 1205; to every i lb. of paste allow 3 oz. of almonds, sifted sugar, the white of an egg. 3Iode.-—RoW the paste out to the thickness of J inch, and, with a round fluted cutter, stamp out as many pieces as may be required. "Work the paste up again, roll it out, and, with a smaller cutter, stamp out some pieces the size of a shilling. Brush the larger pieces over with the white of an egg, and place one of the smaller pieces on each. Blanch and cut the almonds into strips lengthwise ; press them slanting into the paste closely round the rings ; and when they are all completed, sift over some pounded sugar, and bake for about 5 hour or 20 minutes. Garnish between the almonds with strips of apple jelly, and place in the centre of the ring a small quantity of strawberry jam; pile them high on the dish, and serve. Time.—\ hour or 20 minutes. Sufficient.—18 or 20 for a dish. Seasonaole at any time. PliUTED BOLLS. 1317. Ingeedients.—Puff-paste, the white of an egg, sifted sugar, jelly or preserve. Mode.—Make some good puff-paste by recipe No. 120o (trimmings answer very well for little dishes of this sort) ; roll it out to the thickness of i inch, and, with a round fluted paste-cutter, stamp out as many round pieces as may be required; brush over the upper side with the white of an egg; roll up the pieces, pressing the paste lightly together where it joins ; place the rolls on a baking-sheet, and bake for about ^ hour. A few minutes before they are done, brush them over with the white of an egg; strew over sifted sugar, put them back in the oven ; and when the icing is firm and of a pale brown colour, they are done. Place a strip of jelly or preserve across each roll, dish them high on a napkin, and serve cold.