433 VEAL. which glaze the meat. Dish the tendrons in a circle, with croutons fried of a nice colour placed between each; and put mushroom sauce, or a puree of green peas or tomatoes, in the middle. Ti7ne.—4 hours. Sufficient for one entree. Seasonable.—With peas, from June to August. Cow-Pox, OE Variola.—It is to Dr. Jcnner, of Berkeley, Gloucestersliire, who died in 1823, that we ov/e the x)ractice of vaccination, as a preservative from the attack of that destructive scourge of the human race, the small-pox. The experimeuts of this philosophic man were begun in 1797, and published the next year. He had observed that cows were subject to a certain infectious eruption of the teats, and that those persons who became affected by it, while milking the cattle, escaped the smail-pos raging around them. This fact, known to farmers from time immemorial, led him to a course of experiments, the result of which all are acquainted with. TSNDROISrS DE VEAU (an Entree). 910. Ik-gredients.—The gristles from 2 breasts of veal, stock No. 107, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 1 blade of pounded mace, 4 cloves, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a strip of lemon-peel, egg and bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, salt and pepper to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, the yolk of 1 egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream. 3Iodo.—After removing the gristles from a breast of veal, steiv them for 4 hours, as in the preceding recipe, with stock, herbs, mace, cloves, carrots, onions, and lemon-peel. When perfectly tender, lift them out and remove any bones or hard parts remaining. Put them between two dishes, with a v/eiglit on the top, and when cold, cut them into slices. Brush these over with egg, sprinkle viith. bread crumbs, and fry a pale brown. Take i pint of the gravy they were boiled in, add 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, a seasoning of salt and pepper, the sherry, and the yolk of an egg beaten with 3 tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens; when it is on the 2^omt of boiling, dish the tendrons in a circle, and pour the sauce in the middle. Tendrons are dressed in a variety of ways,—with sauce a I'Espagnole, vegetables of all kinds : when they are served with a puree, they should always be glazed. Twie.—4^- hours. Average cost.—Usually bought with breast of vea,I. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable from March to October. TETE DE VEAU EN TOUTUE (an Entree). Qii. Ingredients.—Half a calf's head, or the remains of a cold boiled one; rather more than 1 pint of good white stock, ITo. 107,1 glass of sherry or Madeira, cayenne and salt to taste, about 12 mushroom- 2 F