355 LAMB. and a fresh salad. A cut lemon, a small piece of fresh butter, and a little cayenne, should also be placed on the table, so that when the carver separates the shoulder from the ribs, they may be ready for his use ; if, however, he should not be very expert, we would recommend that the cook should divide these joints nicely before coming to table. Time,—Fore-quarter of lamb weighing 10 lbs., If to 2 hours. Average costy lOd. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. /Seasonahley—gvsisn lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. BOILED LEG OP LAMB A LA BECHAMEL. 751. Ingeedieitts.—Leg of lamb. Bechamel sauce, No. 367. Mode.—Bo not choose a very large joint, but one weighing about 5 lbs. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, into which plunge the lamb, and when it boils up again, draw it to the side of the fire, and let the water cool a little. Then stew very gently for about Ij hour, reckoning from the time that the water begins to simmer. Make some Bechamel by recipe No. 367, dish the lamb, pour the sauce over it, and garnish with tufts of boiled cauMower or carrots. When liked, melted butter may be substituted for the Bechamel; this is a more simple method, but not nearly so nice. Send to table with it some of the sauce in a tureen, and boiled cauliflowers or spinach, with whichever vegetable the dish is garnished. Time.—1 j hour after the water simmers. Average cost, lOd. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. BOAST LEG OF LAMB. I 752. IifGHiEDTENTS.—Lamb, a little salt. Mode.—Place the joint at a good distance from the fire at first, and baste well the whole time it is cooking. "When nearly done, draw it nearer the fire to acquire a nice brown colour. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, empty the dripping-pan of its contents; pour in a little boiling water, and strain this over I the meat. Serve with mint sauce and a I fresh salad, and for vegetables send peas, spinach, or cauliflowers to [table with it. Tiyne.—A. leg of lamb weighing 5 lbs., hour. Average cost, l^d. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. I Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas, i 2 A 2 I