MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 266 cooKiJsra by gas. 575. Gas-Cooking can scarcely now be considered a novelty,—many estab- lishments, both small and large, have been fitted with apparatus for cooking by this mode, which undoubtedly exhibits some advantages. Thus the heat may be more regularly supphed to the substance cooking, and the operation is essentially a clean one, because there can be no cinders or other dirt to be provided for. Some labour and attention necessary, too, with a coal fire or close stove, may be saved ; and, besides this, it may, perhaps, be said that culinary operations are reduced, by this means, to something like a certainty. 576. There are, however, we think, MANY objections to this mode of cooking, more especially when applied to small domestic es- tablishments. For instance, the ingenious ma- chinery necessary for carrying it out, requires cooks perfectly conversant with its use ; and if the gas, when the cooking operations are finished, be not turned off, there will be a large increase in the cost of cooking, instead of the economy which it has been supposed to bring. For large establishments, such as some of the immense London ware- houses, where a large number of young men have to be catered for daily, it may be well adapted, as it is just possible that a slight increase in the supply of gas necessary for a couiole of joints, may serve equally to cook a dozen dishes. BOASTING. 577. Op the Various Methods of Preparing Meat, Boasting is that which most effectually preserves its nutritive qualities. Meat is roasted by being- exposed to the direct influence of the fire. This is done by placing the meat before an open grate, and keeping it in motion to prevent the scorching on any particular part. When meat is properly roasted, the outer layer of its albumen is coagulated, and thus presents a barrier to the exit of the juice. In roasting meat, the heat must be strongest at first, and it should then be much reduced. To have a good juicy roast, therefore, the fire must be red and vigorous at the vf>ry commencement of the operation. In the most careful roasting, some of the juice is squeezed out of the meat: this evaporates on the surface of the meat, and gives it a dark brown colour, a rich lustre, amd a strong aromatic taste. Besides these effects on the albumen and the expelled juice, roasting converts the cellular tissue of the meat into gelatine, and melts the fat out of the fat-cells.