TEGETABLES. 601 the above proportion of flour with a little butter; add this to the turnips, let them simmer another 5 minutes, and serve. Boiled mut- ton is usually sent to table with this vegetable, and may be cooked with the turnips by placing it in the midst of them: the meat would then be very delicious, as, there being so little liquid with the turnips, it would almost be steamed, and consequently very tender. I'iine.—20 minutes. Average cost, 4f/. per bunch. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seaso7iahle,—May be had all the year. Turnips.—G-ood turnips are delicate in texture, firm, aud sweet. The best sorts con- tain a sweet juicy mucilage, uniting with the aroma a slightly acid qiiality, which is completely neutralized in cooking. The turnip is prepared in a variety of ways. Ducks stufled with turnips have been highly appreciated. It is useful in the regimen of persons afflicted with chronic visceral irritations. The turnip only creates flatulency when it is soft, porous, and stringy. It is then, consequently, bad. TUBNIPS IN WHITE SAUCE. (An Entremets, or to be served with, the Second Course as a Side-dish.) 1168. Ingeedients.—7 or 8 turnips, 1 oz. of butter, I pint of white sauce, No. 538 or 539. Mode.—Peel and cut the turnips in the shape of pears or marbles ; boil them in salt and water, to which has been added a little butter, until tender; then take them out, drain, arrange them on a dish, and pour over the white sauce made by recipe No. 538 or 539, and to which has been added a small lump of sugar. In winter, when other vegetables are scarce, this will be found a very good and pretty-looking dish: when approved, a little mustard may be added to the sauce. Time.—About f hour to boil the turnips. Average cost^ 4.d. per bunch. Sufficient for 1 side-dish. Seasonable in winter. The Fbexch Navet.—This is a variety of the turnip ; but, instead of being globular, has more the shape of the carrot. Its flavour being excellent, it is much esteemed on the Continent for soups and made dishes. Two or three of them Avill impart as much flavour as a dozen of the common turnips will. Accordingly, when stewed in gravy, tlicy are greatly relished. This flavour resides in the rind, which is not cut off, but scraped. This variety was once grown in England, but now it is rarely found in our gardens, though highly deserving of a place there. It is of a yellowish-white colour, and is some- times imported to the London market, BOILED TURNIP GREEISTS. 1169. iNaEEDiENTS.—To cach i gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; turnip-greens. J/of7e.—Wash the greens well in two or three waters, and pick off all the decayed and dead leaves ; tie them in small bunches, and put them into plenty of boiling water, salted in the above proportion. Keep them boiling quickly, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered,