793 PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. pieces into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and hoil for i hour. Strain the liquor, and put in the slices of pine. Stew them for 10 minutes, add sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole nicely, and boil again for another J hour; skim well, and the preserve will be ready for use. It must be eaten soon, as it will keep but a very short time. Time.—\ hour to boil the parings in water; 10 minutes to boil the pine without sugar, \ hour with sugar. Average cost,—Foreign pines, Is. to 3s. each ; English, from 2s. to 12s. per lb. Seasonable,—Foreign, in July and August; English, all the year. PLUM JAM. 1580. Ingredients.—To every lb. of plums, weighed before being stoned, allow | lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—In making plum jam, the quantity of sugar for each lb. of frnit must be regulated by the quality and size of the fruit, some plums requiring much more sugar than others. Divide the plums, take out the stones, and put them on to large dishes, with roughly- pounded sugar sprinkled over them in the above proportion, and let them remain for one day; then put them into a preserving-pan,' stand them by the side of the fire to simmer gently for about i hour, and then boil them rapidly for another 15 minutes. The scum must be carefully removed as it rises, and the jam must be well stirred all the time, or it will burn at the bottom of the pan, and so spoil the colour and flavour of the preserve. Some of the stones may be cracked, and a few kernels added to the jam just before it is done : these impart a very delicious flavour to the plums. The above pro- portion of sugar would answer for Orleans plums; the Imperatrice, Magnum-bonum, and Winesour would not require quite so much. Time.—i hour to simmer gently, J hour to boil rapidly. Best 2}lums for presemng.—^Yiolets, Mussels, Orleans, Imperatrice, Magnum-bonum, and Winesour. Seasonahle from the end of July to the beginning of October. Plums.—The Damson, or Damascene plum, takes its name from Damascus, where it grows in great quantities, and whence it was brought into Italy about 114 B.C. The Orleans plum is from France. The Greengage is called after the Gage family, who first brought it into England from the monastery of the Chartreuse, at Paris, where it still bears the name of Reine Claude. The Magnum-bonum is our largest plum, and greatly esteemed for preserves and culinary purposes. The best sorts of plums are agreeable at the dessert, and, when perfectly ripe, are wholesome; but some are too astringent. They lose much of their bad qualities by baking, and are extensively used, from their cheapness, when in full season, in tarts and presei-ves; but they are not a very wholesome fruit, and should be eaten in moderation. PRESEBVED PLUMS. 1581. Ingeediei^ts.—To every lb. of fruit allow | lb. of loaf sugar; for the thin syrup, \ lb. of sugar to each pint of water.