070 HOUSEHOLD 2201. Politeness and civility to visitors is one of the things mastei*s and mistresses have a right to expect^ and should exact rigorously. When visitors present themselves, the servant charged with the duty of opening the door will open it promptly, and answer, without hesitation, if the family are ^^not at home," or " engaged ;" which generally means the same thing, and might be oftener used with advantage to morals. On the contrary, if he has no such orders, he will answer affirmatively, open the door wide to admit them, and precede them to open the door of the drawing-room. If the family are not there, ho will place chairs for them, open the blinds (if the room is too dark), and intimate civilly that he goes to inform his mistress. If the lady is in her drawing-room, he announces the name of the visitors, having previously acquainted himself with it. In this part of his duty it is necessary to be very careful to repeat the names correctly ; mispronouncing names is very apt to give offence, and leads sometimes to other disagreeables. The writer was once initiated into some of the secrets on the ''other side " of a legal affair in which he took an interest, before he could correct a mistake made by the servant in announcing him. When the visitor is departing, the servant should be at hand, ready, when rung for, to open the door; he should open it with a respectful manner, and close it gently when the visitors are fairly beyond the threshold. When several visitors arrive together, he should take care not to mix up the different names together, where they belong to the same family, as Mr., Mrs., and Miss; if they are strangers, he should announce each as distinctly as possible. 2202. Receptions and Evening Parties.—The drawing-rooms being prepared, the card-tables laid out with cards and counters, and such other arrangements as are necessary made for the reception of the company, the rooms should be lighted up as the hour appointed approaches. Attendants in the drawing- room, even more than in the dining-room, should move about actively but noiselessly ; no creaking of shoes, which is an abomination ; watching the lights from time to time, so as to keep up their brilliancy. But even if the attendant likes a game of cribbago or whist himself, he must not inter- fere in his master or mistress's game, nor even seem to take an interest in it. We once knew a lady who had a footman, and both were fond of a game of cribbage,—John in the kitchen, the lady in her drawing-room. The lady was a giver of evening parties, v/here she frequently enjoyed her favourite amuse- ment. AVhile handing about the tea and toast, John could not always sup- press his disgust at her mistakes. '' There is more in that hand, ma'am," he has been known to say ; or, ''Ma'am, you forgot to count his nob ; " in fact, he identified himself with his mistress's game, and would have lost twenty places rather than witness a m.iscount. It is not necessary to adopt his example on this point, although John had many qualities a good servant might copy with advantage.