MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 156 pour over it some of the liquor in wliicli it has been hoiling. Drain it, put it on a hot dish, pour over it caper sauce, and send some of the latter to table in a tureen. Time,-—^ hour. Average cost, id, per lb. Seasonable from August to April. ^ote.—Skate may a'so be served with onion sauce, or parsley and butter. SMAIili SKATE FRIED. 317. Ingeedients.—Skate, sufficient vinegar to cover them, salt and pepper to taste, 1 sliced onion, a small bunch of parsley, the juice of ^ lemon, hot dripping. Mode.—Cleanse the skate, lay them in a dish, with sufficient vinegar to cover them; add the salt, pepper,onion, parsley, and lemon-juice, and let the fish remain in this pickle for l| hour. Then drain them well, flour them, and fry of a nice brown, in hot dripping. They may be served either with or without sauce. Skate is not good if dressed too fresh, unless it is crimped ; it should, therefore, be kept for a day, but not long enough to produce a disagreeable smell. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, 4.d. per lb. Seasonable from August to April. Other species of Skate.—Besides the true slcate, there are several other species found in our seas. These are Irno'.vn as tho ?"hife skate, the long-nosed skate, and the Homelyn ray, which are of inferior quality, though often crimped, and sold for true skate. TO BAKE SMELTS. 318. Ingeediekts.—12 smelts, bread crumbs, J lb. of fresh butter, 2 blades of pounded mace ; salt and cayenne to taste. 3£ode.—Wash, and dry the fish thoroughly in a cloth, and arrange them nicely in a fiat baking-dish. Cover them with fine bread crumbs, and place little pieces of butter all over them. Season and bake for 15 minutes. Just before serving, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Thiie.—J hour. Average cost, 2s. per dozen. Seasonable from October to May. Sufficient for 6 persons. To Choose Smelts.—When good, this fish is of a fine silvery appearance, and when alive, their backs are of a dark brown shade, which, after death, fades to a light fawn. They ought to have a refreshing fragrance, resembling that of a CTiicumber. The Odotir o? the Smelt.—This peculiarity in the smelt has been compared, by some, to the fragrance of a cucumber, and by others, to that of a violet. It is a very elegant fish, and formerly abounded in the Tliames. The AOiarine, or sand smelt, is cometimes sold for the true one; but it is an inferior fish, being drier in the quality of its flesh. On the south coast of England, \yhcre the true sm.elt is rare, it is plentiful.