517 GAME. the former is now considered the most approved method. Put them down to a sharp clear fire ; keep them well basted the whole of the time they are cooking, and serve them on a buttered toast, soaked in the dripping-pan, with a little melted butter poured over them, or with bread-sauce and gravy.—See coloured plate, L1. Time.—i hour; if liked very thoroughly done, 35 minutes. Average cost, 2s. to 2s. Q>d. the brace ; but seldom bought. Sufficient,—2 for a dish. Seasonahle from the 12th of August to the beginning of December. Grouse.—Those birds are divided into wood grouse, black grouse, red grouse, and white grouse. The wood grouse is further distinguished as the cock of the wood, or capercalzie, aud is as large as the turkey, being about two feet niue inches in length, aud weighing from twelve to fif- teen pounds. The female is considerably less than the male, and, in the colour of her feathers, differs widely from the other. This beautiful species is found principally in lofty, mountainous region?, and is very rare iu Great Britain; but in the pine forests of Eussia, Sweden, aud other northern countries, it is very common. In these it has its habitat, feeding on the cones of the trees, and the fruits of various kinds of plants, espe- cially the berry of the juniper. Black grouse is also distinguished as black-game, or the black-cock. It is not larger than the common hen, and weighs only about four pounds. The female is about one-third less than the male, and also differs considerably from him in point of colour. Like the former, they are found chiefly in high situations, and are common in Eussia, Siberia, and other northern countries. They are also found in the northern parts of Great Britain, feeding in winter on the various berries and fruits belongiugto mountainous countries, aud, in summer, frequently descending to the lower lands, to feed upon corn. The red grouse, orcock, or moor-cock, weighs about nineteen ounces, and the female somewhat less. n the wild heathy tracts of the northern counties of England it is plentiful, also in Wales and the Highlands of Scotland. Mr. Pennant considered it peculiar to Britain, those found in the mountainous parts of Spain, France, and Italy, being only varieties of the same bird. "White grouse, white game, or ptarmigan, is nearly the same size as the red grouse, and is found in lofty situations, where it supports itself in the severest weather. It is to be met with in most of the northern countries of Europe, and appears even in Greenland. In the Hebrides, Orkneys, and the Highlands of Scotland, it is also found J and sometimes, though rarely, among the fells of Northumberland and Cumber- land. In winter they fly in flocks, and are so little familiar with the sight of man, thai; they are easily shot, and even snared. They feed on the wild produce of the hills, whicli sometimes imparts to their flesh a bitter but not unpalatable taste. According to Buffou, it is dark-coloured, and somewhat flavoured like the hare. GROUSE SALAD. (Soger's Eecijye.) 1026. Ingeedients.—S eggs, butter, fresh salad, 1 or 2 grouse; for the sauce, 1 teaspoonful of minced shalot, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, the yolk of 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, ^ oz. of salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of oil, 2 tablespoonfuls of Chili vinegar, 1 gill of cream. BED GEOUSE.