DUTIES or THE FOOT if AN. 969 21^5, After each meal, the footman's place is in his pantry: here perfect order should prevail—a place for everything and everything in its place. A sink, with hot and cold water laid on, is very desirable,—cold absolutely neceesary. AVooden bowls or tubs of BufHcient capacity are required, one for hot and another for cold water. Have the bowl three parts full of clean hot water; in this wash all plate and plated articles which are greasy, wiping them before cleaning with the brush. 2196. The footman in small families, where only one man is kept, has many of the duties of the upper servants to perform as well as his own, and more constant occu- pation ; he will also have the arrangement of his time more immediately under his own control, and he will do well to I'educe it. to a methodical division. All his rough work should be done before breakfast is ready, when he must appear clean, and in a presentable state. After breakfast, when everything belonging to his pantry is cleaned and put in its place, the furniture in the dining and drawing rooms requires rubbing. Towards noon, the parlour luncheon is to be prepared; and he must be at his mistress's disposal to go out with the carriage, or follow her if she walks out. 2197. Glass is a beautiful and most fragile article: hence it requires great care in washing. A perfectly clean wooden bowl is best for this operation, one for moderately hot and another for cold water. Wash the glasses well in the first and rinse them in the second, and turn them down on a linen cloth folded two or three times, to drain for a few minutes. When sufficiently drained, wipe them with a cloth and polish with a finer one, doing so tenderly and carefully. Accidents will happen; but nothing dis- credits a servant in the drawing-room more than continual reports of breakages, which, of course, must reach that region. 2198. Decanters and water-jugs require still more tender treatment in cleaning, inas- much as they are more costly to replace. Fill them about two-thirds with hot but not boiling water, and put in a few pieces of well-soaped brown paper ; leave them thus for two or three hours ; then shake the water u-p and down in the decanters; empty this out, rinse them well with clean cold water, and put tliem in a rack to drain. When dry, polish them outside and inside, as far as possible, with a fine cloth. To remove the crust of port or other wines, add a little muriatic acid to the water, and let it remain for some time. 2199. When required to go out with the carriage, it is the footman's duty to see that it has come to the door perfectly clean, and that the glasses, and sashes, and linings, are free from dust. In receiving messages at the carriage door, he should turn his ear to the speaker, so as to comprehend what is said, in order that he may give his directions to the coachman clearly. When the house he is to call at is reached, he should knock, and return to the carriage for orders. In closing the door upon the family, he should see that the handle is securely turned, and that no part of the ladies' dress is shut in. 2200. It is the footman's duty to carry messages or letters for his master or mistress to their friends, to the post, or to the tradespeople ; and nothing is more important than dispatch and exactness in doing so, although writing even the simplest message is now the ordinary and very proper prac- tice. Dean Swift, among his other quaint directions, all of which are to be read by contraries, recommends a perusal of all such epistles, in order that you may be the more able to fulfil j-our duty to your master. An old lady of Forfarshire had one of those odd old Caleb Balderston sort of servants, who construed the Dean of St. Patrick more literally. On one occasion, Avhen dispatch was of some importance, knowing his inquiring nature, she called her Scotch Paul Pry to her, opened the note, and read it to him herself. Baying, ''jSTow, Andrew, you ken a'aboot it, and ncedna'stop to open and read it, but just take it at once." Probably most of the notes you arc expected to carry might, with equal harmlessness, be communicated to you; but it will be better not to ta.ke so lively an interest in your mistress's afiairs.