821 Ilode.—Boil the crumb of the roll in milk for 5 minutes; strain, and put it into a mortar; add the cheese, which should be finely scraped, the butter, the yolks of the eggs, and seasoning, and pound these ingre- dients well together. "VYhisk the whites of the eggs, mix them with the paste, and put it into small pans or saucers, which should not be more than half filled. Bake them from 10 to 12 minutes, and serve them very hot and very quickly. This batter answers equally weU for macaroni after it is boiled tender. Time.—10 to 12 minutes. Average costy Is. 46?. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. PASTKY RAMAKINS, to serve with the CHEESE COURSE. 1650. Ingkedients.—Any pieces of very good light puflf-paste Cheshire, Parmesan, or Stilton cheese. Mode.—The remains or odd pieces of paste left from large tarts, &c. answer for making these little dishes. Gather up the pieces of paste* roll it out evenly, and sprinkle it with grated cheese of a nice flavour. Fold the paste in three, roll it out again, and sprinkle more cheese over; fold the paste, roll it out, and with a paste-cutter shape it in any way that may be desired. Bake the ramakins in a brisk ovea from 10 to 15 minutes, dish them on a hot napkin, and serve quickly The appearance of this dish may be very much improved by brushing the ramakins over with yolk of egg before they are placed in the oven. Where expense is not objected to, Parmesan is the best kind of cheese to use for making this dish. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, with \ lb. of paste, \0d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. TOASTED CHEESE, or SCOTCH BARE-BIT. 1651. Ingkedients.—A few slices of rich cheese, toast, mustard, and pepper. 3Iode.~Q\it some nice rich sound cheese into rather thin slices; melt it in a cheese-toaster on a hot plate, or over steam, and, when melted, add a small quantity of mixed mustard and a seasoning of pepper; stir the cheese until it is completely dissolved, then brown it before the fire, or with a salamander. Fill the bottom of the cheese-toaster with hot water, and serve with dry or buttered toasts, whichever may be pre- ferred. Our engraving illustrates a cheese-toaster with hot-water reservoir: the cheese is melted in the upper tin, which is placed in another vessel of boiling water, so keeping the preparation beautifully