GAJIE, HASHED HAEE. 1030. Ikgbedients.—-The remains of cold roast hare, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 or 3 allspice, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of port wine, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. 3Iodc,—Cut the cold hare into neat slices, and put the head, bones, and trimmings into a stewpan, with f pint of water; add the mace, allspice, seasoning, onion, and herbs, and stew for nearly an hour, and strain the gravy ; thicken it with butter and flour, add the wine and ketchup, and lay in the pieces of hare, with any stuffing that may be left. Let the whole gradually heat by the side of the Are, and, v/hen it has simmered for about 5 minutes, serve, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Send red-currant jelly to table with it. Time—Uatliev more than 1 hour. A verage cost^ exclusive of the cold hare, ^d, Seasonable from September to the end of February. JUGGED HABS. {Verij Good.) S031. Ikgeeliei^ts.—1 hare, 1| lb. of gra-?y beef, i lb. of butter, 1 onion, 1 lemon, 6 cloves ; pepper, cayenne, and salt to taste; i pint of port v/ine. Afode.—Skin, paunch, and wash the hare, cut it into pieces, dredge them with flour, and fry in boiling butter. Have ready 1| pint of gravy, made from the above proportion of beef, and thickened with a little flour. Put this into a jar; add the pieces of fried hare, aa onion stuck with six cloves, a lemon peeled and cut in half, and a good seasoning of pepper, cayenne, and salt; cover the jar down tightly, put it up to the neck into a stewpan of boiling water, and let it stew until the hare is quite tender, taking care to keep the water boiling. "When nearly done, pour in the wine, and add a few force- meat balls, made by recipe No. 417 : these must be fried or baked ia the oven for a few minutes before they are put to the gravy. Serve with red-currant jelly. Time^—Zi to 4 hours. If the hare is very old, allow 4^ hours. Average cost^ 7s, Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to the end of February.