994 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT, •2307. As modern furniture is now, nearly always Frencli-polished, it should often be rubbed with an old silk rubber, or a fine cloth or duster, to keep it free from smears. Three or four times a year any of the following polishes may be applied with very great success, as any of them make French-polished furniture look very well. One precaution must be taken,—not to put too much of the polish on at one time, and to rub, not smear it over the articles. Furniture Polish.. 2308. Ingredients. — 5 pint of linseed - oil, 5 pint of vinegar, 1 oz. of spirits of salts, I oz. of muriatic antimony. Mode.—Mix all well together, and shake before using. Furniture Polish. 2309. Ingredients.—Equal proportions of linseed-oil, turpentine, vinegar, and spirits of wine. Mode.—When used, shake the mixture well, and rub on the furniture with a piece of linen rag, and polish with a clean duster. Vinegar and oil, rubbed in with flannel, and the furniture rubbed with a clean duster, produce a very good polish. Furniture Paste. 2310. Ingredients.—3 oz. of common beeswax, 1 oz. of white wax, 1 oz. of curd soap, 1 pint of turpentine, 1 pint of boiled water. Mode.—Mix the ingredients together, adding the water when cold ; shake ^^^^^^ the mixture frequently in the bottle, and do not use it for tff^ ^z!^^^ hours after it is made. It should be applied with a ^MHliBii*^ piece of flannel, the furniture polished with a duster, and FUBNiTUKE-BEusH. then with an old silk rubber. 2311. The chambers are finished, the chamber candlesticks brought down and cleaned, the parlour lamps trimmed ;—and here the housemaid's utmost care is required. In cleaning candlesticks, as in every other cleaning, she should have cloths and brushes kept for that purpose alone ; the knife used to scrape them should be applied to no other purpose ; the tallow-grease should be thrown into a box kept for the purpose ; the same with everything connected with the lamp-trimming ; the best mode of doing which she will do well to learn from the tradesman who supplies the oil; always bearing in mind, how- ever, that without perfect cleanhness, which involves occasional scalding, no lamp can be kept in order. 2312. The drawing and dining-room, inasmuch as everything there is more costly and valuable, require even more care. When the carpets are of the kind known as velvet-pile, they require to be swept firmly by a hard whisk brush, made of cocoanut fibre. 2313. The furniture must be carefully gone over in every corner with a soft cloth, that it may be left perfectly free from dust; or where that is beyond reach, with a brush made of long feathers, or a goose's wing. The sofas are