PORK. 377 Time,—3 or 4 minutes. Average cost^ lOd, to Is. per lb. for the primest parts. Sufficient.—Allow 6 eggs for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. JN'ote.—Fried rashers of bacon, curled, serve as a pretty garnish to many dishes; and, for small famihes, answer very well as a substitute for boiled bacon, to serve with a small dish of poultry, &c. BROILED RASHERS OF BAC03M (a Breakfast Dish). B03, Before purchasing bacon, ascertain that it is perfectly free from rust, which may easily be detected by its yellow colour ; and for broiling, the streaked part of the thick flank, is generally the most esteemed. Cut it into thin slices, take off the rind, and broil over a nice clear fire; turn it 2 or 3 times, and. serve very hot. Should there be any cold bacon left from the previous day, it answers very well for breakfast, cut into slices, and broiled or fried. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Average cost, lOd. to l5. per lb. for the primest parts. Seasonahle at any time. Note.—When the bacon is cut very thin, the slices may be curled round and fastened by means of small skewers, and fried or toasted before the fire. BOILED BACOK. 804. Ingredients.—Bacon ; water. Mode.—As bacon is frequently excessively salt, let it be soaked in warm water for an hour or two previous to dressing it; then pare off the rusty parts, and scrape the under-side and rind as clean as possible. Put it into a saucepan of cold water, let it come gradu- ally to a boil, and as fast as the scum rises to the surface of the water, remove it. Let it simmer very gently until it is thorotighli/done; then take it up, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over the bacon a few bread raspings, and garnish with tufts of cauliflower or Brussels sprouts. When served alone, young and tender broad beans or green peas are the usual accompaniments. Time.—I lb. of bacon, J hour; 2 lbs., if hour. Average cost, IQd. to Is. per lb. for the primest parts. Sufficient.—2 lbs., when served with poultry or veal, sufficient for 10 persons. Seasonable at any time.