VEGETABLES. 599 spoonfuls of good brown gravy, tlie juice of ^ lemon, cayenne to taste. Mode,—Wash the trulHes and cut them into slices about the size of a penny-piece ; put them into a saute pan, with the parsley, shalot, salt, pepper, and 1 oz. of butter; stir them over the fire, that they may all be equally done, which will be in about 10 minutes, and drain of? some of the butter; then add a little more fresh butter, 2 table- gpoonfuls of good gravy, the juice of i lemon, and a little cayenne; stir over the fire until the whole is on the point of boiling, when serve. Ti77ie.—Altogether, 20 minutes. Average cost.—I^ot often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. Uses op the TEUFFLii:.—Like the Morel, trulHes are seldem eaten alone, but ard niiicliused in gravies,, soups, and ragouts. They are likewise dried for the winter months, and, when reduced to powder, form a useful culinary ingredient; they, however, have many virtues attributed to them which they do not possess. Their wholesomeness is, perhaps, questionable, and they should be eaten with moderation. ^BOILSD TUBHIPS. 1165. Ingeedients.—Turnips; to each i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. 3£ode,—Pare the turnips, and, should they be very large, divide them into quarters; but, unless this is the case, let them be cooked whole. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion, and let them boil gently until tender. Try them with a fork, and, when done, take them up in a colander ; let them thoroughly drain, and serve. Boiled turnips are usually sent to table with boiled mutton, but are infinitely nicer when mashed than served v^^hole: unless nice and young, they are scarcely worth the trouble of dressing plainly as above. Time.—Old turnips, % to H hour; young ones, about 18 to 20 minutes. Average cost^ id. per bunch. Sif^icient.—Allow a bunch of 12 turnips for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—May be had all the year; but in spring only useful for flavouring gravies, &c. The Tuenip.—This vegetable is the Brcmica Bap'.i of science, and grows wild in England, but cannot be brought exactly to resemble what it becomes in a cultivated state. It is said to have been originally introduced from Hanover, and forms an excellent culinary vegetable, much used all over Europe, where it is either eaten alone or mashed and cooked in soups and stews. They do not thrive in a hot climate; for in India they, and many more of our garden vegetables, lose their flavom' and become comparatively^ tasteless. The Swede is the largest variety, but it is too coarse for the table.