THE COACHHOUSS AND STAELZS. 2203. The Hoese is the noblest of quadrupeds, whether we view him in his f=!tren;iih, hia sagacity, or his beauty. He is also the most useful to man of all the auimal creatiou ; but his delicacy is equal to his power and usefulness. No other animal, probably, is so de- pendent on man in the state of domestication to which he has been reduced, or detei io- rates so rapidly under exposure, bad feeding, or bad grooming. It is, therefore, a point of humanity, not to speak of its obvious impolicy, for the owner of horses to overlook any neglect in their feeding or gx'ooming. His interest dictates that so valuable an animal should be well housed, well led, and well groomed; and he will do well to acquire so much of stable lore as will enable him to judge of these points himself. In a general wa}^ where a horse's coat is habitually rough and untidy, there is a sad want of elbow-grease in the stable. "When a horse of tolerable breeding is dull and spiritless, he is getting ill or badly fed; and where he is observed to perspire much in the stables, is overfed, and probably eats his litter in addition to his regular supply of food. 2201. Stables.—The architectural foi*m of the stables will be subject to other influences thauours; we confine ourselves, therefore, to their internal arrangements. They should be roomy in proportion to the number of stalls; warm, Avith good ventilation, and perfectly free from cold draughts; the stalls roomy, without excess, with good and well-trappecl drainage, so as to exclude bad smells ; a sound ceiling to prevent the entrance of dust frum the hayloft, which is usually above them ; and there should be pleutj^ of light, coming, however, either from above or behind, so as not to glare in the horse's eye. 2205. Heat.—The first of these objects is attained, if the stables are kept within a degree or two of 50° in v/inter, and 60° in summer; although some "^'rooms insist on a much higher temperature, in the interests of their own labour. 2206. Ventilation is usually attained by the insertion of one or more tubes or boxes of, wood or iron through the ceiling and the roof, with a sloping covering over the opening, to keep out rain, and valves or ventilators below to regulate (he atmosphere, with openings in the walls for the admission of fresh air : this is stiii a difliculty, however; for the etUu- vium of the stable is difficult to dispel, and draughts must be avoided. This is sometimes accomplished by means of hollow walls with gratings at the bottom outside, for the exit of bad air, which is carried down through the hollow wails and discharged at the bottom, while, for the admission of fresh air, the reverse takes place : the fresh by this means gets diffused and heated before it is discharged into the stable. 2207. Tlie Stalls should be divided by partitions of wood-work eight or nine feet high at the head and six at the heels, and nine feet deep, so as to separate each horse from its neighbour. A hay-rack placed within easy reach of the horse, of wood or iron, occu- pies either a corner or the whole breadth of the stall, which should be about six feet for an ordinary-sized horse. A manger, formerly of wood, but of late years niore generally of iron lined with enamel, occupies a corner of the stall. The pavement of the stall should be nearly level, with a slight incline towards the gutter, to keep the bed dry, paved with hard Dutch brick laid on edge, or asphalte, or smithy clinkers, or rubble- stones, laid in strong cement. In the centre, about five feet from the wall, a grating should be firmly fixed in the pavement, and in communication with a well-trapped drain to carry off the water ; the gutter outside the stall should also communicate with the drains by trapped openings. The passage between the stall and the hall should be from five to six feet broad at least; on the wall, opposite to each stall, pegs should be placed for receiving the harness and other things in daily use. 2208. A Harness-room is indispensable to every stable. It should be dry and airy, and furnished with a fireplace and boiler, both for the protection of the harness and to prepare mashes for the horses when required. The partition-wall sliould be boarded where the harness goes, with pegs to hang the various pieces of harness on, with saddle- trees to rest the saddles on, a cupboard for the brushes, sponges, and leathers, and a lock- up c:>ru-bin. 2209. The furniture of a stable with coachhouse, consists of coach-mops, jacks for raising the wheels, horse-brushes, spoke-brushes, water-bx-ushes, crest and bit-brushes, dandy-brushes, currycombs, birch and heath brooms, trimming-combs, scissors and pickers, oil-cans and brushes, harness-brushes of three sorts, leathers, sponges for horse and carriage, stable-forks, dung-baskets or wheelbarrow, corn-sieves and measures, horse-cloths and stable pails, horn or glass lanterns. Over the stables there should be accommodation for the coachman or groom to sleep. Accidents sometimes occur, a:id he should be at hand to interfere.