Ffsn. 121 ening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, J pint of cream, salt and cayenne to taste. 3fode.—¥l^ke the fish, and fry it of a nice brown colour with the butter and onions; put this in a stewpan, add the stock and thick- ening, and simmer for 10 minutes. Stir the curry-powder into the cream ; put it, with the seasoning, to the other ingredients; give one boil, and serve. Time.—% hour. Average cost^ with fresh fish, Zs, Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Food of the Cod.—This cliiefly consists of the smaller species of the scaly tribes, shell-fish, crabs, and worms. Their voracity is very great, and they will bite at any small body they see moved by the water, even stones and pebbles, which are frequently found in their stomachs. They sometimes attain a great size, but their usual weight is from 14 to 40 lbs. COD A LA CREME. 238. Ingredients.—1 large slice of cod, 1 oz. of butter, 1 chopped shalot, a little minced parsley, ^ teacupful of white stock, J pint of milk or cream, flour to thicken, cayenne and lemon-juice to taste, 5 teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode—^oW. the cod, and while hot, break it into flakes; put the butter, shalot, parsley, and stock into a stewpan, and let them boil for 5 minutes. Stir in sufficient flour to thicken, and pour to it the milk or cream. Simmer for 10 minutes, add the cayenne and sugar, and, when liked, a little lemon-juice. Put the fish in the sauce to warm gradually, but do not let it boil. Serve in a dish garnished with croutons. Time.—Rather more than f hour. Average cost, with cream, 2s, Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 3 persons. Note.—The remains of fish from the preceding day ans^ver very well for this dish, COD A LA BECHAMEL. 239. Ingeedients.—Any remains of cold cod, 4 tablespoonfuls of bechamel {see Sauces), 2 oz. butter; seasoning to taste of pepper and salt; fried bread, a few bread crumbs. Mode.—Flake the cod carefully, leaving out all skin and bone; put the bechamel in a stewpan with the butter, and stir it over the fire till the latter is melted; add seasoning, put in the fish, and mix it well with the sauce. Make a border of fried bread round the dish, lay in the fish, sprinkle over with bread crumbs, and baste with