MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 754: treasures of Gastronomia, has succeeded in witlidrawing" from obscurity tho details of the preparation of which so much had been said, and which he imagines to be as wholesome as it was agreeable. Here follows the recipe :— OMELETTB ATI TKOK". 1494. Take, for 6 jpersons, the roes of 2 carp;* bleach them, by putting them, for 5 minutes, in boiling water slightly salted. Take a piece of fresh tunny about the size of a hen's egg, to which add a small shalot already chopped; hash up together the roe and the tunny, so as to mix them well, and throw the whole into a saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of very good butter: whip it up until the butter is melted ! This constitutes the specialty of the omelet. Take a second piece of butter, d discretion, mix it with parsley and herbs, place it in a long-shaped dish destined to receive tho omelet; squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and place it on hot embers. Beat up 12 eggs (the fresher the better) ; throw up the saute of roe and tunny, stirring it so as to mix all well together ; then make your omelet in the usual manner, endeavouring to tiuii it out long, thick, and soft. Spread it carefully on the dish prepared for it, and serve at once. This dish ought to be reserved for recherche dejeuners, or for assemblies where amateurs meet who know how to cat well: washed down with a good old wine, it will work wonders. JVote.—The roe and the tunny must be beaten up (saut<5) without allowing them to boil, to prevent their hardening, which would prevent them mixing well with the eggs. Your dish should be hollowed towards the centre, to allow the gravy to concentrate, that it may be helped with a spoon. The dish ought to be slightly heated, otherwise the cold china will extract all the heat from the omelet. * Au Americau writer says he has followed this recipe, substituting pike, shad, &c., in the place of carp, and can recommend all these also, with a quiet conecicnGe. Any fish, indeed, naay be used with success.