270 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. they are limited witliin the boundaries of certain countries by tlie conditions of climate and soil; and some of the species prey upon each other. Linnjcus has divided them into six classes ;—Mammalia, Birds, Fishes, Amphibious Animals, Insects, and Worms. The three latter do not come within the limits of our domain ; of fishes we have already treated, of birds we shall treat, and of mammalia we v/ill nov/ treat. 586. This Class of Animals embraces all those that nourish their young by means of lacteal glands, or teats, and are so constituted as to have a w^arm or red blood. In it the whale is placed,—an order which, from external habits, has usually been classed with the fishes ; but, although this animal exclusively inhabits the water, and is supplied v/ith fins, it nevertheless exhibits a striking alliance to quadrupeds. It has vv^arm blood, and produces its young alivo; it nourishes them with milk, and, for that purpose, is furnished with teats. It is also supplied with lungs, and two auricles and two ventricles to the heart; all of which bring it still closer into an alliance with the quadrupedal species of the animo.! kingdom. 587. The General Characteristics of the ]\Iammalia have been fre- quently noticed. The bodies of nearly the whole species are covered with hair, a kind of clothing which is both soft and warm, little liable to injury, and bestowed in proportion to the necessities of the animal and the nature of the climate it inhabits. In all the higher orders of animals, the head is the principal seat of the organs of sense. It is there that the eyes, the ears, the nose, and the mouth are placed. Through the last they receive their nourishment. In it are the teetli, which, in most of the mammalia, are used not only for the mastication of food, but as weapons of offence. They are inserted into two movable bones called jaws, and the front teeth are so placed that their sharp edges may easily be brought in contact with their food, in order that its fibres may readily be separated. Next to these, on each side, are situated the canine teeth, or tusks, v/hich are longer than the other teeth, and, being pointed, are used to tear the food. In the back jaws are placed another form of teeth, called grinders. These are for masticating the food ; and in those animals that live on vegetables, they are flattened at the to]3; but, in carnivora, their upper surfaces are furnished with sharp-pointed protuberances. From the numbers, form, and disposition of the teeth, the various genera of quadrupeds have been arranged. The oiose is a cartilaginous body, pierced with two holes, which are called nostrils. Through these the animal is affected by the sense of smell; and in some it is prominent, whilst in others it is flat, compressed, turned upwards, or bent downwards. In beasts of prey, it is frequently longer than the lips ; and in some other animals it is elongated into a movable trunk or proboscis, whilst, in the rhinoceros tribe, it is armed with a horn. The eyes of quadrupeds aro generally defended by movable lids, on the outer margins of which are fringes of hair, called eyelashes. The opening of the pupil is in general circular ; but in some species, as in those of the Cat and Hare, it is contracted into a