631 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. /Seasonable at any time. it; and with all who have partaken of it, it is an especial favourite. Nothing is of greater consequence, in the above directions, than attention to the time of boiling, which should never be less than that mentioned. BARBSBBY TABT. 1245. IiN^GEEDiENTS.—To every lb. of barberries allow f lb. of lump sugar; paste. Mode.—Yid^ the barberries from the stalks, and put the fruit into a stone jar ; place this jar in boiling water, and let it simmer very slowly until the fruit is soft; then put it into a preserving- pan with the sugar, and boil gently for 15 minutes ; line a tartlet-pan with paste, bake it, and, when the paste is cold, fill with the barberries, and ornament the tart with a few baked leaves of paste, cut out, as shown in the engraving. Thne. — J hour to bake the tart. Average cost^ id. per pint. Seasonahle in autumn. Baebereies {Berherris vulgaris).—A fruit of such great acidity, that even birds refuse to eat it. In this respect, it nearly approaches the tamarind. When boiled with sugar, it makes a very agreeable preserve or jelly, accordiug to the different modes of preparing it. Barberries are also used as a dry sweetmeat, and in sugarplums or comfits; are piclded with vinegar, and are used for various culinary purposes. They are well calculated to allay heat and thirst in persons afflicted with fevers. The berries, arranged on bunches of nice curled parsley, make an exceedingly pretty garnish for supper-dishes, particularly for white meats, like boiled fowl a la Bechamel, the three colours, scarlet, green, and white, contrasting so well, and producing a very good effect. BAEEESRy, BAKED BATTEB PUDDIITG-. 1246. Ingeedients.—li pint of milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, a little salt. 3£ode.—Mix. the flour with a small quantity of cold milk; make the remainder hot, and pour it on to the flour, keeping the mixture well stirred; add the butter, eggs, and salt; beat the whole well, and put the pudding into a buttered pie-dish; bake for f hour, and serve with sweet sauce, wine sauce, or stewed fruit. Baked in small cups, this makes very pretty little puddings, and should be eaten with the same accompaniments as above. Time.—J hour. Average cost, 9d.