787 PPtESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. oranges, and allow the above proportion of water to every dozen oranges. Peel them carefully, remove a little of the white pith, and boil the rinds in water 2 hours, changing the water three times to take off a little of the bitter taste. Break the pulp into small pieces, take out all the pips, and cut the boiled rind into chips. Make a syrup with the sugar and water; boil this well, skim it, and, when clear, put in the pulp and chips. Boil all together from 20 minutes to i hour ; pour it into pots, and, when cold, cover down with bladders or tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. The juice and grated rind of 2 lemons to every dozen of oranges, added with the pulp and chips to the syrup, are a very great improvement to this marmalade. T{7ne.—2 hours to boil the orange-rinds; 10 minutes to boil the syrup ; 20 minutes to J hour to boil the marmalade. A verage cost^ from Qd, to Sc?. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—This should be made in March or April, as Seville oranges are then in perfection. II. 1567. iNaEEDiEKTS.—Equal weight of Seville oranges and sugar ; to every lb. of sugar allow J pint of water. Mode.—"Weigh the sugar and oranges, score the skin across, and take it off in quarters. Boil these quarters in a muslin bag in water until they are quite soft, and they can be pierced easily with the head of a pin; then cut them into chips about 1 inch long, and as thin as possible. Should there be a great deal of white stringy pulp, remove it before cut- ting the rind into chips. Split open the oranges, scrape out the best part of the pulp, with the juice, rejecting the white pith and pips. Make a syrup with the sugar and water ; boil it until clear; then put in the chips, pulp, and juice, and boil the marmalade from 20 minutes to J hour, removing all the scum as it rises. In boiling the syrup, clear it carefully from scum before the oranges are added to it. Time.—2 hours to boil the rinds, 10 minutes the syrup, 20 minutes to i hour the marmalade. Average costy 6d. to Sd. per lb. pot. Seasonable.—^Make this in March or April, when Seville oranges are in perfection. AN EASY" WAY OF MAKING OBANaE MABMALADE. 1568. Ingkedients.—To every lb. of pulp allow 1| lb. of loaf sugar, ilfoc^e.—Choose some fine Seville oranges ; put them whole into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and stew them until 3 E ..}