MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 536 number they may amount to six or seven on each side, yet the animal's age is then estimated rather by the size of the antlers and the thickness of the branch which sus- tains them, than by their variety. Large as these horns seem, however, they are shed every year, and their phice supplied by new ones. This usually takes place in the spring. When the old horns have fallen olf, the new ones do not make their appearance immedi- ately ; but the bones of the skull are seen covered with a transparent periosteum, or skin, •which enwraps the bones of all animals. After a short time, however, the skin begins to swell, and to form a sort of tumour. From this, by-and-by, rising from the head, shoot forth the antlers from each side ; and, in a short time, in proportion as the animal is in condition, the entire horns are completed. The solidity of the extremities, however, is not 5)erfect until the horns have arrived at their full growth. Old stags usually shed their lorns first, which generally happens towards the latter end of February or the beginning of March. Such as are between five and six years old shed them about the middle ok latter end of March ; those still younger in the month of April; and the youngest of all not till the middle or latter end of May. These rules, though generally true, are subject to variations ; for a severe winter will retard the shedding of the horns.—The Hijfi) haa no horns, and is less fitted for being hunted than the male. She takes the greatest caro- of her 3'ouug, and secretes them in the most obscure thickets, lest they become a prey to their numerous enemies. All the rapacious family of the cat kind, with the wolf, the dog, the eagle, and the falcon, are continually endeavouring to find her retreat, whilst the stag himself is the foe of his own oftspring. When she has young, therefore, it would seem that the courage of the male is transferred to the female, for she defends them with the most resolute bravery. If pursued by the hunter, she will fly before the- hounds for half the day, and then return to her young, whose life she has thus preserved at the hazard of her own. The New Venisox.—The deer population of our splendid English parks was, until a few years since, limited to two species, the fallow and the red. But as the fallow-deer itself was an acclimated animal, of comparatively recent introduction, it came to be a question why might not the proprietor of any deer-park in England have the luxury of at least half a dozen species of deer and antelopes, to,adorn the hills, dales, ferny brakes, and rich pastures of his domain ? The temperate regions of the whole world might h& made to yield specimens of the noble ruminant, valuable either for their individual beauty, or for their availability to gastronomic purposes. During the last four or five years a few spirited English noblemen have made the experiment of breeding foreign deer in their parks, and have obtained such a decideck ISLAND (bull). XLAND (COW). fiuccess, that it may be hoped their example w-iil induce others to follow in a course which will eventually give to England's rural scenery a new element of beauty, and to English tables a fresh viand of the choicest character. A practical solution of this interesting question was made by Viscount Hill, at Hawke- stone Park, Salop, in January, 1859. On that occasion a magnificent eland, an acclimated scion of the species whose native home is the South African wilderness, was killed for the table. The noble beast was thus described ;—He weighed 1,176 lbs. as he dropped ; huge as a short-horn, but with bone not half the size ; active as a deer, stately in all nis paces, perfect in form, bright in colour, with a vast dewlap, and strong sculptured horn. This eland in his lifetime strode majestic on the hill-side, where he dwelt with his mates and their progeny, all English-born, like himself." Three pairs of the same species of deer were left to roam at large on the picturesque slopes throughout the day.