689 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. instead of a suet crust, it would be very nice baked, and would be sufficiently done in from I 2- to 2 hours. Time.—Boiled pudding, 2 hours ; baked pudding, H to 2 hours. Average cost, 7d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahh at any time. MEAT OR SAUSAGE BOLIiS. 1373. Ingredients.—1 lb. of puff-paste I^o. 120G, sausage-meat No. 837, the yolk of 1 egg. J/ot/c—Make 1 lb. of puff-paste by recipe No. 120G; roll it out to the thickness of about \ inch, or rather less, and divide it into 8, 10, or 12 squares, according to the size the rolls are intended to be. Place some sausage-meat on one-half of each square, wet the edges of the paste, and fold it over the meat; slightly press the edges together, and trim them neatly with a knife. Brush the rolls over with the yolk of an egg, and bake them in a well-heated oven for about I hour, or longer should they be very large. The remains of cold chicken and ham, minced and seasoned, as also cold veal or beef, make very good rolls. Time.—^ hour, or longer if the rolls are large. Average cost, Is. 6c?. Sufficient.—1 lb. of paste for 10 or 12 rolls. Seasonable, with sausage-meat, from September to March or April. SOMERSETSHIBE PUDDHsTGS. 1374, Ingredients.—3 eggs, their weight in flour, pounded sugar and butter, flavouring of grated lemon-rind, bitter almonds, or essence of vanilla. Ilode.—Carefully weigh the various ingredients, by placing on one side of the scales the eggs, and on the other the flour ; then the sugar, and then the butter. Warm the butter, and with the hands beat it to a cream; gradually dredge in the flour and pounded sugar, and keep stirring and beating the mixture without ceasing until it is perfectly smooth. Then add the eggs, which should be well whisked, and either of the above flavourings that may be preferred; butter some small cups, rather more than half-fill them, and bake in a brisk oven for about \ hour. Turn them out, dish them on a napkin, and serve custard or wine-sauce wiirh them. A pretty little supper- dish may be made of these puddings cold, by cutting out a portion of the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity a little whipped cream or delicate preserve, such as apricot, greengage, or very bright marmalade. The paste for these pud- 2 Y