636 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. these in a fanciful device at the bottom of the mould, and fill in the spaces between with currants and sultanas ; then add a few slices of sponge cake or French roll; drop a few drops of melted butter on these, and between each layer sprinkle' a few currants. Proceed in this manner until the mould is nearly full; then flavour the milk with nutmeg and grated lemon-rind; add the sugar, and stir to this the eggs, which should be well beaten. Beat this mixture for a few minutes; then strain it into the mould, which should be quite full; tie a piece of buttered paper over it, and let it stand for 2 hours ; then tie it down with a cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it boil slowly for 1 hour. In taking it up, let it stand for a minute or two before the cloth is removed ; then quickly turn it out of the mould or basin, and serve with sweet sauce separately. The flavouring of this pudding may be varied by substituting for the lemon-rind essence of vanilla or bitter almonds ; and it may be made much richer by using cream ; but this is not at all necessary. Time.—1 hour. Average cost. Is. Zd, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle at any time. ^ A PLAIK CABINET or BOILED BBEAD-ANB-BUTTER PUDDING. 1-257. Ingredients.—2 oz. of raisins, a few thin slices of bread and butter, 3 eggs, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, J nutmeg. 3Iode.—Butter a pudding-basin, and line the inside with a layer of raisins that have been previously stoned; then nearly (ill the basin with slices of bread and butter with the crust cut off, and, in another basin, beat the eggs;. add to them the milk, sugar, and grated nutmeg; mix all well together, and pour the whole on to the bread and butter; let it stand 4 hour, then tie a floured cloth over it; boil for 1 hour, and serve with sweet sauce. Care must be taken that the basin is quite full before the cloth is tied over. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Scasonahle at any time. CANABY" PUDDING. 1258. Ingeedients.—The weight of 3 eggs in sugar and butter, the "Weight of 2 eggs in flour, the rind of 1 small lemon, 3 eggs. ilfbf?^.-—Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil; stir to this the sugar and finely-minced lemon-peel, and gradually dredge in the flour, keeping the mixture well stirred; whisk the eggs;