MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 22i parsley; salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste; the juice of i large lemon, ^ teaspoonful of pounded sugar. 3fode.—Put at the bottom of a stewpan the minced ham, and over it the poultry-trimmings (if these are not at hand, veal should be substi- tuted), with the shalots, garlic, and bay-leaf. Pour in the water, and let the whole simmer gently for 1 hour, or until the liquor is reduced to a full ^ pint. Then strain this gravy, put it in another saucepan, make a thickening of butter and flour in the above proportions, and stir it to the gravy over a nice clear fire, until it is perfectly smooth and rather thick, care being taken that the butter does not float on the surface. Skim well, add the remaining ingredients, let the sauce gradually heat, but do not allow it to boil. If this sauce is intended for an entree, it is necessary to make it of a sufficient thickness, so that it may adhere to what it is meant to cover. Time.—if hour. Average cost, Is. 2d. per pint. Sufficient for re-warming the remains of J calf's head, or a small dish of cold flaked turbot, cod, &c. MAIGBE MAITBE D'HOTEL' SAUCE (HOT). (Made without Meat.) 467. Ingredients.—-i- pint of melted butter, ISTo. 376 : 1 heaped tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, the juice of i large lemon ; when liked, 2 minced shalots. Mode.—Make I pint of melted butter, by recipe ISTo. 376 ; stir in the above ingredients, and let them just boil; when it is ready to serve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, 9d. per pint. MAYO]Sri3"AISE, a Sauce or Salad-Dressing for cold Chicken, Meat, and other cold Dishes. 468. Ingeedients.—The yolks of 2 eggs, 6 tablespoonfuls of salad- oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, salt and white pepper to taste, 1 i tablespoonful of white stock, 'No. 107, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 3Iode.—Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, with a seasoning of pepper and salt; have ready the above quantities of oil and vinegar,' in separate vessels; add them veri/ gradually to the eggs ; continue stirring and rubbing the mixture with a wooden spoon, as hereiif consists the secret of having a nice smooth sauce. It cannot be stirred too frequently, and it should be made in a very cool place, or, if ice is at hand, it should be mixed over it. When the vinegar and oil are well incorporated with the eggs, add the stock and cream, stirring all the time, and it will then be ready for use.