600 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, MASHED TUHlSriPS. 1166. iKaREDiENTS.—10 or 12 large turnips; to each f gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, 2 oz. of butter, cayenne or white pepper to taste. Mode.—Pare the turnips, quarter them, and put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion; boil them until tender ; then drain them in a colander, and squeeze them as dry as possible by pressing them with the back of a large plate. When quite free from water, rub the turnips with a wooden spoon through the colander, and put them into a very clean saucepan; add the butter, white pepper, or cayenne, and, if necessary, a little salt. Keep stirring them over the fire until the butter is well mixed with them, and the turnips are thoroughly hot; dish, and serve. A little cream or milk added after the turnips are pressed through the colander, is an im- provement to both the colour and flavour of this vegetable. Time.—From k to f hour to boil the turnips; 10 minutes to warm them through. Average cost, 4(2. per bunch. Si'ficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seaso7iahle.—May be had all the year ; but in spring only good for flavouring gravies. Vegetables reduced to Puree.—Persons in the flower of youth, having healthy stomachs, and leading active lives, may eat all sorts of vegetables, without inconvenience, save, of course, in excess. The digestive functions possess great energy during the period of youth: the body, to develop itself, needs nourishment. Physical exercise gives an appetite, which it is necessary to satisfy, and vegetables cannot resist the vigorous action of the gastric organs. An old proverb says, At twenty one can digest iron." But for aged persons, the sedentary, or the delicate, it is quite otherwise. Then the gastric power has considerably diminished, the digestive organs have lost their energy, the process of digestion is consequently slower, and the least excess at table is followed by derangement of the stomach for several days. Those who generally digest vegetables with difficulty, should eat them reduced to a pulp or jpuree, that is to say, with their skins and tough fibres removed. Subjected to this process, vegetables which, when entire, would create flatulence and wind, are then comparatively harmless. Experience has established the rule, that nourishment is not complete without the alliance of meat with vegetables. We would also add, that the r(?gime most favourable to health is found in variety : variety pleases the senses, monotony is disagreeable. The eye is fatigued by looking always on cue object, the ear by listening to one sound, and the palate by tasting one flavour. It is the same with the stomach : consequently, variety of food is one of the essentials for securing good digestion. GEBMAIQ- MODS OF COOKma TUBITIPS. 1167. IiTGKEDiENTS.—8 large tiiraips, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than i pint of weak stock or broth, 1 table- spoonful of flour. Ifode.—Make the butter hot in a stewpan, lay in the turnips, after having pared and cut them into dice, and season them with pepper and salt. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then add the broth, and simmer the whole gently till the turnips are tender. Brown