HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1050 nnd six powders, from two to six years old. After that age, double tho strength, by giving the quantity of two powders at once. 2531. It is sometimes customary to apply borax and honey to the mouth for thrush; but it is always better to treat the disease constitutionally rather than locally. The first steps, therefore, to be adopted are, to remove or correct the exciting cause—the mother's milk or food; allay irritation by a warm bath and the castor-oil mixture, tbllowed by and conjoined with the powders. 2532. To those, however, who wish to try the honey process, the best pre- paration to use is the following :—Rub down one ounce of honey with two drachms of tincture of myrrh, and apply it to the lips and mouth every four or six hours. 2533. It is a popular belief, and one most devoutly cherished by many mirses and elderly persons, that everybody must, at some time of their life, between birth and death, have an attack of thrush, and if not in infancy, or prime of life, it will surely attack them on their death-bed, in a form more malignant than if the patient had been affected with the malady earlier ; the black thrush with which they are then reported to be affected being, in all probability, the petechse, or purple spots that characterize the worst form, and often the last stage, of typhoid fever. 2534. In general, very little medicine is needed in this disease of the thrush —an alterative powder, or a little magnesia, given once or twice, being all, with the warm bath, that, in the great majority of cases, is needed to restore the mucous membrane to health. As thrush is caused by an excess of heat, or over-action in the lining membrane of the stomach and bowels, whatever will counteract this state, by throvdng the heat on the surface, must ma- terially benefit, if not cure, the disease: and that means every mother has at hand, in the form of a imrm lath. After the application of this, a little magnesia to correct the acidity existing along the surface of the mucous membrane, is often all that is needed to throw the system into such a state as will effect its own cure. This favourable state is indicated by an excessive flow of saliva, or what is called " dribbling," and by a considerable amount of relaxation of the bowels—a condition that must not be mistaken for diarrhoea, and checked as if a disease, but rather, for the day or two it continues, encouraged as a critical evacuant. 2535. Should there be much debility in the convalescence, half a tea- spoonful of stee wine, given twice a day in a little barley-water, will be found sufficient for all the purposes of a tonic. This, with the precaution of changing the child's food, or, when it lives on the mother, of correcting the quality of the milk by changing her own diet, and, by means of an antacid or aperient, improving the state of the secretion. Such is all the treatment that this disease in general requires.