079 DUTIES OF THE LADY'S-MAID. 2211. Another polish 19 made l)y mixing 1 oz. each of pounded piiUs and logwood-chips, and 3 lbs. of red French wine (ordinaire). Boil tof^ctber till the liquid is reduced to half the quantity, and pour it oil* through a strainer. Kow take ^Ib. each of pounded gum-arabic and lump-sugar, 1 oz. of green copperas, and 3 lbs. of brandy. Dissolve the gum-arabic in the preceding decoction, and add the sugar and copperas : \Yhen all is dis- solved and mixed together, stir in the brandy, mixing it smoothly. This mixture will yield 5 or 6 lbs. of a very superior polishing paste for boots and shoes, -2242. It is, perhaps,, unnecessary to add, tliat Laving discharged all the commissions intrusted to him by his master, sucli as conveying notes or messages to friends, or the tradesmen, all of which he should punctually and promptly attend to, it is his duty to be in waiting when his master returns home to dress for dinner, or for any other occasion, and to have all things prepared for this second dressing. Previous to this, lie brings under his notice the cards of visitors who may have called, delivers the messages ho may have received for him, and othervnse acquits himself of the morning's commissions, and receives his orders for the remainder of the day. The routine of his evening duty is to have the dressing-room and study, where there is a separate one, arranged comfortably for his master, the fires lighted, candles prepared, dressing-gown and slippers in their place, and aired, and everything in order that is required for his master's comforts. FEMALE DOMESTICS. DUTIES OP THE LADY'S-MAID. 2243. The duties of a lady's-maid are more numerous, and perhaps more onerous, than those of the valet; for while the latter is aided by the tailor, tho hatter, the linen-draper, and the perfumer, the lady's-maid has to originate many parts of the mistress's dress herself: she should, indeed, be a tolerably expert milliner and dressmaker, a good hairdresser, and possess some chemical knowledge of the cosmetics with which the toilet-table is supplied, in order to use them -with safety and effect. Her first duty in the morning, after having performed her own toilet, is to examine the clothes put off by her mistress the evening before, either to put them awa}'-, or to see that they are all in order to put on again. During the winter, and in wet weather, the dresses should be carefully examined., and the mud removed. Dresses of tweed, and other woollen materials, may bo laid out on a table and brushed all over; but in general, even in woollen fabrics, the lightness of the tissues renders brushing unsuitable to dresses, and it is better to remove the dust from the folds by beating them lightly with, a handkerchief or thin cloth. Silk dresses should never be brushed, but rubbed wuth a piece of merino, or other soft material, of a similar colour, kept for the pmpose. Summer dresses of barege, muslin, mohair, and other light materials, simply require shaking ; but if the muslin be tumbled, it must bo ironed afterwards. If the dresses require slight repair, it should be done at once : a stitch in time saves nine." 3 R 2