BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 839 and mix about i pint of the yeast with them ; let this mixture stand all day, and lay the bread to rise the night before it is wanted. Time.—20 minutes to boil the hops and water. Siffficient.—i pint of this yeast sufficient for a peck of flour, or rather more. 1718. Inghedients.—1 quartern of flour, 1 large taolespoonful of solid brewer's yeast, or nearly 1 oz. of fresh German yeast, 1^ to li pint of warm milk-and-water. Idode.—-'But the flour into a large earthenware bowl or deep pan; then, with a strong metal or wooden spoon, hollow out the middle; but do not clear it entirely away from the bottom of the pan, as, in that case, the sponge (or leaven, as it was formerly termed) would stick to it, which it ought not to do. Next take either a large table- spoonful of brewer's yeast which has been rendered solid by mixing it with plenty of cold water, and letting it afterwards stand to settle for a day and night; or nearly an ounce of German yeast; put it into a large basin, and proceed to mix it, so that it shall be as smooth as cream, with | pint of warm milk-and-water, or with water only; though even a very little milk will much improve the bread. Pour the yeast into the hole made in the fiour, and stir into it as much of that which lies round it as will make a thick batter, in which there must be no lumps. Strew plenty of flour on the top ; throw a thick clean cloth over, and set it where the air is warm ; but do not place it upon the kitchen fender, for it will become too much heated there. Look at it from time to time : when it has been laid for nearly an hour, and when the yeast has risen and broken through the flour, so that bubbles appear in it, you will know that it is ready to be made up into dough. Then place the pan on a strong chair, or dresser, or table, of convenient height; pour into the sponge the remainder of the warm milk-and-water; stir into it as much of the flour as you can with the spoon; then wipe it out clean with your fingers, and lay it aside. Next take plenty of the remaining flour, throw it on the TO MAKE GOOD HOME-MADE EBEAD. (Miss Acton's Reci2^e.) COTTAGE LOAF, TIN- BEEAD.