POULTRY. 479 Te'me.—Guinea-fowl, larded, 1? hour; plainly roasted, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable in winter. Note—T\iQ breast, if larded, should be covered with a piece of paper, and removed about 10 minutes before serving. Tee Guiiq-EA-FowL.—The bird takes its name from Guinea, in Africa, where it is found wild, and in great abundance. It is gregarious in its habits, associating in flocks of two or three hundred, delighting in marshy- grounds, and at night perching upon trees, or on high situations. Its size is about the same as that of a common hen, but it stands higher on its legs. Though domesticated, it retains much of its wild nature, and is apt to wander. The hens lay abundantly, and the eggs are excellent. In their flesh, however, thc}^ are not so white as the common fowl, but more inclined to the colour of the pheasant, for which it frequently makes a good substi- tute at table. The flesh is both savoury and easy of digestion, and is in season when game 16 out of season. LAKK PIE (an Entree). 971. iNaEEDiENTS.—A few thin slices of beef, the same of bacon, 9 larks, flour; for stuffing, 1 teacupful of bread crumbs, \ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, 1 egg, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of chopped shalot, ^ pint of weak stock or water, puff-paste. Mode.—Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, minced lemon-peel, parsley, and the yolk of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together; roll the larks in flour, and stuff them. Line the bottom of a pie-dish with a few slices of beef and bacon ; oyer these place the larks, and season with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and chopped shalot, in the above proportion. Pour in the stock or water, cover with crust, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. During the time the pie is baking, shake it 2 or 3 times, to assist in thickening the gravy, and serve very hot. Time,—1 hour. Average cost^ Is. 6cl. a dozen. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. , Seasonable,—In full season in November, I ROAST LAKKS. 972. Ingredients.—Larks, egg and bread crumbs, fresh butter. 3ib Je.~These birds are by many persons esteemed a great delicacy, and may be either roasted or broiled. Pick, gut, and clean them; GtllKlA-rOWLS,