146 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Excellence of the Ekglish Oyster—The Frencli assert that the English oysters, which are esteemed the best in Europe, were originally procured from Cancalle Bay, near St. Malo; but they assign no proof for this. It is a fact, however, that the oysters eaten in ancient Rome were nourished in the channel which then parted the Isle oi Thanet from England, and which has since been filled up, and converted into meadows. BOILED PEKCH. 292. Iis^GEEDiENTS.—J lb. of Salt to each gallon of water. Mode—Soale the fish, take out the gills and clean it thoroughly ; lay it in boiling water, salted as above, and simmer gently for 10 minutes. If the fish is very large, longer time must be allowed. Garnish with parsley, and serve with plain melted butter, or Dutch sauce. Perch do not preserve so good a flavour when stewed as Vv^hen dressed in any other way. B'me.—Middling-sized perch, J hour. Seasonable from September to K'ovember, JVote.—Tench may be boiled the same way, and served with the same sauces. The Peech.—This is one of the best, as it is one of the most common, of our fresh-water fishes, and is found in nearly all the lakes and rivers in Britain and Ireland, as well as through the whole of Europe within the temperate zone. It is extremely voracious, and it has the pecu- liarity of being gregarious, which is contrary to "allf ' ■ ' the nature of all fresh-water fishes of prey. The best season to angle for it is from the beginning THE PEKCH. of May to the middle of July. Large numbers of this fish are bred in the Hampton Court and Bushy Park ponds, all of which are well supplied with running water and with plenty of food; yet they rarely attain a large size. In the Regent's Park they are also very numerous; but are seldom heavier than three quarters of a pound. FBIED PEKCH. 293. Ii^'GEEDiENTS.—Egg and bread crumbs, hot lard. Mode.—Scale and clean the fish, brush it over with egg, and cover with bread crumbs. Have ready some boiling lard ; put the fish in, and fry a nice brown. Serve with plain melted butter or anchovy sauce. Time,—10 minutes. Seasonable from September to November. Note,—Fry tench in the same way, PEBCH STEWED WITH WINE. 294. In-geebients.—Equal quantities of stock Ko. 105 and sherry, 1 bay-leaf, 1 clove of garlic, a small bunch of parsley, 2 cloves, salt to taste; thickening of butter and flour, pepper, grated nutmeg, i teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Jfbr/e.—Scale the fish and take out the gills, and clean them