GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR DRESSING FISH. 113 II. When fish is out of season, it has a transparent, bluish tinge, however much it may be boiled; when it is in season, its muscles are firm, and boil white and curdy. III. As food for invalids, white fish, such as the ling-, cod, haddock, coal-fish, and whiting, are the best; flat fish, as soles, skate, turbot, and llounders, are also good. IV. Salmon, mackerel, herrings, and trout soon spoil or decompose after they are killed ; therefore, to be in perfection, they should be prejjared for the table on the day they are caught. With flat fish, this is not of such con- sequence, as they will keep longer. The turbot, for example, is improved by being kept a day or two. GENEBAIi DIBSCTIOITS FOR DBSSSIHG- FISH. 219. In Dressing Fish, of any kind, the first point to be attended to, is to see that it be perfectly clean. It is a common error to wash it too much ; as by doing so the flavour is diminished. If the fish is to be boiled, a little salt and vinegar should be put into the water, to give it firmness, after it is cleaned. Cod-fish, whiting, and haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day; and if the weather be not very hot^ they will be good for two days. 220. When Fish is Cheap and Plentiful, and a larger quantity is piir chased than is immediately wanted, the overplus of such as will bear it should be potted, or pickled, or salted, and hung up ; or it may be fried, that it may serve for stewing the next day. Fresh-water fish, having frequently a muddy smell and taste, should be soaked in strong salt and water, after it has been well cleaned. If of a sufficient size, it may be scalded in salt and water, and afterwards dried and dressed. *» 221. Fish should be put into Cold Water, and set on the fire to do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Unless the fishes are small, they should never be put into warm water; nor should water, either hot or cold, be poured on to the fish, as it is liable to break the skin : if it should be necessary to add a little water whilst the fish is cooking, it ought to be poured in gently at the side of the vessel. The fish-pl?.te may be drawn up, to see if the fish be ready, which may be known by its easily separating from the bone. It should then be immediately taken out of the water, or it will become woolly. The fish-plate should be set crossways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving, and a clean cloth over the fish, to prevent its losing its colour. 222. In Garnishing Fish, great attention is required, and plenty of parsley, I