MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 402 847. The Cow goes with Young for Nine Months, and the affection and solicitude she evinces for her offspring is more human in its tenderness and intensity than is displayed by any other animal; and her distress when she hears its bleating, and is not allowed to reach it with her distended udders, is often painful to witness, and when the calf has died, or been accidentally killed, her grief frequently makes her refuse to give down her milk. At such times, the breeder has adopted the expedient of flaying the dead carcase, and, distending the skin with hay, lays the effigy before her, and then taking advan- tage of her solicitude, milks her while she is caressing the skin with her tongue, 848. In a State op Nature, the cow, like the deer, hides her young in the tall ferns and brakes, and the most secret places ; and only at stated times, twice or thrice a day, quits the herd, and, hastening to the secret cover, gives suck to her calf, and with the same circumspection returns to the com- munity. 849. In some Countries, to please the epicurean taste-of vitiated appe- tites, it is the custom to kill the calf for food almost immediately after birth, and any accident that forestalls that event, is considered to enhance its value. We are happy to say, however, that in this country, as far as England and Scot- land are concerned, the taste for very young veal has entirely gone out, and ''Staggering Bob," as the poor little animal was called in the language of the ' shambles, is no longer to be met with in such a place. 850. T!he Weaning OP Calves is a process that requires a great amount of care and judgment; for though they are in reality not weaned till betvv^een the eighth and the twelfth week, the process of rearing them by hand com- mences in fact from the birth, the calf never being allowed to suck its dam. As the rearing of calves for the market is a very important and lucrative business, the breeder generally arranges his stock so that ten or a dozen of his cows shall calve about the same time; and then, by setting aside one or two, to find food for the entire family, gets the remaining eight or ten with their full fountains of milk, to carry on the operations of his dairy. Some people have an idea that skimmed milk, if given in sufficient quantity, is good enough for the weaning period of calf-feeding; but this is a very serious mistake, for the cream, of which it has been deprived, contained nearly all the oleaginous prin- ciples, and the azote or nitrogen, on which the vivifying properties of that fluid depends. Indeed, so remarkably correct has this fact proved to be, that a calf reared on one part of new milk mixed with five of water, will thrive and look well; while another, treated with unlimited skimmed milk, will be poor, thin, and miserable. 851. It is sometimes a matter op considerable trouble to induce the blundering calf—whose instinct only teaches him to suck, and that he will do at anything^ and with anything—to acquire the knowledge of imbibition, thafc