114 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, horseradish^ and lemon should be used. If fried parsley be used, it must be washed and picked, and thrown into fresh water. When the lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice. When v/ell done, and with very good sauce, fish is more appreciated than almost any other dish. The liver and roe, in some instances, should be placed on the dish, in order that they may be distributed in the course of serving; but to each recipe will be ap23ended the proper mode of serving and garnishing. 223. If Fish is to be Fried or Broiled, it m-ust be dried in a nice soft cloth, after it is well cleaned and washed. If for frjdng, brush it over with egg, and sprinkle it v/ith some fine crumbs of bread. If done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look so much the better. If required to be very nice, a sheet of white blotting-paper must be placed to receive it, that it may be free from all grease. It must also be of a beautiful colour, and all the crumbs appear distinct. Butter gives a bad colour; lard and clarified dripping are most frequently used ; but oil is the best, if the expense be no objection. The fish should be put into the lard when boiling, a,nd there should be a suffi- ciency of this to cover it. 224. Ween Fish is Broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and laid on a very clean gridiron, which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet, to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled over a very clear fire, that it may not taste smoky; and not too near, that it may not be scorched. 225. In choosing Fish, it is well to remember that it is possible it may bo fresJi, and yet not good. Under the head of each particular fish in this work, are appended rules for its choice and the months when it is in season. Nothing can be of greater consequence to a cook than to have the fish good ; as if this important course in a dinner does not give satisfaction, it is rarely that the repast goes off well.