MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 202 the upper parts, cut it into small pieces, and pound well in a mortar, till it can be rubbed through a sieve. That portion which passes through the strainer is one of the three ingredients of which French forcemeats are generally composed; but many cooks substitute butter for this, being a less troublesome and more expeditious mode of prepara- tion. Pestle and Moetae.—ITo cookery can be perfectly performed witliout tlie aid of the useful instruments shown in the engraving. PESTLE AITD MOETAE. For pounding things Sufficiently fine, they are invaluable, and the use of them will save a good deal of time, besides increasing the excellence of the preparations. They are made of iron, and, in that material, can be bought cheap ; but as these are not available for all purposes, "vve should recommend, as more economical in the end, those made of Wedgwood, although these are considerably more expensive than the former. Veal Quenelles. 422. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of veal, panada (No. 420), and calf's udder (Ko. 421), 2 eggs; seasoning to taste of pepper, salt, and pounded mace, or grated nutmeg ; a little flour. Mode—Take the fleshy part of veal, scrape it with a knife, till all the meat is separated from the sinevfs, and allow about | lb. for an entree. Chop the meat, and pound it in a mortar till reduced to a paste ; then roll it into a ball; make another of panada (No. 420), the same size, and another of udder (No. 421), taking care that these three balls be of the same size. It is to be remembered, that equality of size, and not of weight, is here necessary. When the three ingredients are properly prepared, pound them altogether in a mortar for some time; for the more quenelles are pounded, the more delicate the^^ are. Now moisten with the eggs, whites and yolks, and continue pounding, adding a seasoning of pepper, spices, &c. When the whole is well blended together, mould it into balls, or whatever shape is intended, roll them in flour, and poach in boiling water, to which a little salt should have been added. If the quenelles are not firm enough, add the yolk of another egg, but omit the white, which only makes them hollow and puffy inside. In the preparation of this recipe, it would be well to bear in mind that the ingredients are to be well pounded and seasoned, and must be made hard or soft according to the dishes they are intended for. For brown or white ragouts they should be firm, and when the quenelles are used very small, extreme delicacy will be necessary in their preparation. Their flavour may be varied by using the flesh of rabbit, fowl, hare, pheasant, grouse, or an extra quantity of mushroom, parsley, &c.