SAUCES, ETC. 233 tablespoonfuls of cream added just before serving, Yvill be found to im- prove its appearance very much. Small onions^ when very young-, may bo cooked whole, and served in melted butter. A sieve or tammy sliould bo kept expressly for onions : an old one answers the purpose, as it is liable to retain the flavour and smell, which of course would be excessively dis- agreeable in delicate preparations. BEOWi^ ONIOl^ SATJGEl. 485. Tngbedients.—6 large onions, rather more than f pint of good gravy, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Mode.—Slice and fry the onions of a pale brown in a stewpan, with the above quantity of butter, keeping them well stirred, that they do not get black. When a nice colour, pour over the gravy, and let them, sirnmer gently until tender. Now skim off every particle of fat, add the seasoning, and rub the whole through a tammy or sieve ; put it back in the saucepan to warm, and when it boils, serve. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. Seasonable from August to March. Note.—Where a very high flavouring is liked, add 1 tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup, or a small quantity of port wine. History of the 0>:io]S'.—It is not supposed tliatany variety of the onion is incHgenou>3 to Britain, as when the large and mild roots imported from warmer climates, have been cultivated in these islands a few years, they deteriorate both in size and sweetness. It is therefore most likely that this plant was first introduced into England from continental Europe, and that it originally was produced in a southern climate, and has gradually become acchmatized to a colder atmosphere. {See No. 139.) PICKLED ONIOISTS (a very Simple Method, and exceedingly Good). \ 486. Ikgeedients.—Pickling onions; to each quart of vinegar^ 2 teaspoonfuls of allspice, 2 teaspoonfuls of v/hole black pepper. Mode.—Have the onions gathered when quite dry and ripe, and, with the fingers, take oil the thin outside skin ; then, with a silver knife (steel should not be used, as it spoils the colour of the onions), remove one more skin, when the onion will look quite clear. Have ready some very dry bottles or jars, and as fast as they are peeled, put them in. Pour over sufficient cold vinegar to cover them, with pepper and allspice in the above proportions, taking care that each jar has its share of the latter ingredients. Tie down with bladder, and put them in a dry place, and in a fortnight they will be fit for use. This is a most simple recipe and very delicious, the onions being nice and crisp. They should be eaten within 6 or 8 months after being done, as the onions are liable to become soft. Seasonable from the middle of July to the end of August. 'm