MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 850 pyramids on paper, put the paper on tins, and bake the biscuits in rather a cool oven until they are just coloured a light brown. Time, About 5 hour. Seasonable at any time. CBISP BISCUITS. 1741. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of flour, the yolk of 1 eg^, milk. Mode.—M.i^ the flour and the yolk of the egg with sulncient milk to make the whole into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead it until it is perfectly smooth. Eoll the paste out veri/ thin; with a round cutter shape it into small biscuits, and bake them a nice brown in a slow oven from 12 to 18 minutes. Time.—12 to 18 minutes. Average cost, id, Seasonable at any time. DESSEBT BISCUITS, wliicli may toe flavoured with Ground Ginger, Cinnamon, &c. &c. 1742. iNaEEDiENTS.—-1 lb. of flour, h lb. of butter, i lb. of sifted sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, flavouring to taste. Mode,—Put the butter into a basin; warm it, but do not allow it to oil; then with the hand beat it to a cream. Add the flour by degrees, then the sugar and flavouring, and moisten the whole with the yolks of the eg^s, which should previously be well beaten. When all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, drop the mixture from a spoon on to a buttered paper, leaving a distance between each cake, as they spread as soon as they begin to get warm. Bake in rather a slow oven from 12 to 18 minutes, and do not let the biscuits acquire too much colour. In making the above quantity, half may be fla- voured with ground ginger and the other half with essence of lemon or currants, to make a variety. With whatever the preparation is flavoured, so are the biscuits called; and an endless variety may be made in this manner. Time—12 to 18 minutes, or rather longer, in a very slow oven. Average cost, Is, 6d. Sufficient to make from 3 to 4 dozen cakes. Seasonable at any time. IiEMOlSr BISCUITS. 1743. Ingeedients.—I5 lb. of flour, f lb. of loaf sugar, 6 oz. of fresh butter, 4 eggs, 1 oz. of lemon-peel, 2 dessertspoonfuls of lemon-juice. Modc—'RvJo the flour into the butter; stir in the pounded sugar and very finely-minced lemon-peel, and when these ingredients are thoroughly mixed, add the eggs, which should be previously well 1