579 VEGETABLES. be stewed with a large piece of butter: they must be done very gradually over a slow fire or hot-plate, and will produce plenty of gravy. Time.—To stew in gravy, 2 hours, or longer if very large. Average cost,—medium-sized, 2c?. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from September to January. JS'ote.—Stewed Spanish onions are a favourite accompaniment to roast shoulder of mutton. OsiGiN OF THE Okioh".—This Vegetable is thouglit to have originally come from India, through Egypt, where it became an object of worship. Thence it was transmitted to Greece, thence to Italy, and ultimately it was distributed throughout Europe, in almost every part of \Yhich it has, from time immemorial, been cultivated. In warm climates it is found to be less acrid and much sweeter than in colder latitudes; and in Spain it is not at all unusual to see a peasant munching an onion, as an Englishman would an apple. Spanish onions, which are imported to this country during the winter months, are, when properly roasted, perfectly sweet, and equal to many preserves, BOILED PARSHIPS. 1132. Ingredients.—Parsnips; to each i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Wash the parsnips, scrape them thoroughly, and, with the point of the knife, remove any black specks about them, and, should they be very large, cut the thick part into quarters. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water salted in the above proportion, boil them rapidly until tender, which may be ascertained by thrusting a fork in them; take them up, drain them, and serve in a vegetable-dish. This vegetable is usually served with salt fish, boiled pork, or boiled beef: when sent to table with the latter, a few should be placed alternately with carrots round the dish, as a garnish. 2Vme.—Large parsnips, 1 to hour; small ones, i to 1 hour. Average cost, Id. each. Sufficient.—Allow 1 for each person. Seasonable from October to May. The Paeskip.—This vegetable is found wild in meadows all over Europe, and, in England, is met with very fre- quently on diy banks in a chalky soil. In its wild state, the root is white, mucilaginous, aromatic, and sweet, with some degree of acrimony: when old, it has been known to cause vertigo. Willis relates that a whole family fell into delirium from having eaten of its roots, and cattle never touch it in its wild state. In domestic economy the parsnip is much used, and is found to be a highly nutritious vege- table. In times of scarcity, an exceUent bread has been made from the roots, and they also furnish an excellent wine, resembliug the malmsey of Madeu-a and the Canaries: a spirit is also obtained from them in as great quantities as from carrots. The composition of the parsnip-root has been found to be 79-4 of water, G-9 starch and fibre, 6-1 gum, 5-5 sugar, and 2-1 of albumen. 2 P 2