BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 841 over-night, to take ofl" its bitterness. Stir -all well tof^etlier witli a wooden spoon, and pour the mixture into the centre of the flour ; mix it to the substance of cream, cover it over closely, and let it remain near the fire for an hour ; then add the 5 pints of water, milk-warm, with 2 oz. of salt; pour this in, and mix the whole to a nice light dough. Let it remain for about 2 hours; then make it Into 7 loaves, and bake for about Ij hour in a good oven. When baked, the bread should weigh nearly 20 lbs. Tiine,—About 1^ hour. The Red Varieties oe Wheat are generally liardier and more easily- grown than the white sorts, and, although of less value to the miller, they are full}'- more profitable to the grower, in consequence of the better crops which they produce. Another advantage the red wheats possess is tlieir comparative immunity from the attacks of mildew and fl}'. The best English wheat comes from the counties of Kent and Essex; the qualities under these eed heads always bearing a higher price than others, as will be seen by the pe- "winteb riodical lists in the journals. wheat, KICE BBEAD. 1720. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of rice allow 4 lbs. of wheat flour, nearly 3 tablespoonfuls of yeast, 5 oz. of salt. 3Iode,—Boil the rice in water until it is quite tender; pour off the water, and put the rice, before it is cold, to the flour. Mix these well together with the yeast, salt, and sufficient warm water to make the whole into a smooth dough ; let it rise by the side of the fire, then form it into loaves, and bake them from 1^ to 2 hours, according to their size. If the rice is boiled in milk instead of water, it makes very delicious bread or cakes. When boiled in this manner, it may be mixed with the flour without straining the liquid from it. Time.—l^ to 2 hours. IWDIAlSr-COBlT-FLOUIl BBEAD. 1721. Ingeedients.—To 4 lbs. of flour allow 2 lbs. of Indian-corn flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast, 3 pints of warm water, \ oz. of salt. Mode.—Mix the two flours well together, with the salt; make a hole in the centre, and stir the yeast up well with | pint of the warm water; put this into the middle of the flour, and mix enough of it with the yeast to make a thin batter; throw a little flour over the surface of this batter, cover the whole with a thick cloth, and set it to rise in a warm place. When the batter has nicely risen, work the whole to a nice smooth dough, adding the water as required ; knead it well, and mould the dough into loaves; let them rise for nearly