EEEF. 301 BEEF ROLLS (Cold Meat Cookery). 647. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled beef, sea- soning to taste of salt, pepper, and minced herbs ; puff paste. Mode,—Mince the beef tolerably fine vrith a small amount of its own fat; add a seasoning of pepper, salt, and chopped herbs ; put the "whole into a roll of puff paste, and bake for i hour, or rather longer, should the roll be very large. Beef patties may be made of cold meat, by mincing and seasoning beef as directed above, and baking in a rich puff paste in patty-tins. Time.—\ hour. Seasonable at any time. TvIINIATUHB ROUI-TD OF EEEF. {An Excellent Dish for a Small Family.) 648. Ingredients.—From 5 to 10 lbs. of rib of beef, sufficient brino to cover the meat. 3fode.—Choose a fine rib, have the bone removed, rub some salt over the inside, and skewer the meat up into a nice round form, and bind it with tape. Put it into sufiicient brine to cover it (the brine should be made by recipe 'No. 654), and let it remain for 6 days, turning the meat every da5^ When required to bo dressed, drain from the pickle, and put the meat into very hot water; let it boil rapidly for a few minutes, when drav/ the pot to the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently until done. Remove the skewer, and replace it by a plated or silver one. Carrots and turnips should be served with this dish, and may be boiled with the meat. Time.—A small round of 8 lbs., about 2 hours after the water boils ; one of 12 lbs., about 3 hours. Average cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonahle at any time. Note.—Should the joint be veiy small; 4 or 5 days Vvill be sufficient time to salt it. EBISKET OF BEEF, a la Flanir.nde. €49. Ingredients.—About 6 or 8 lbs. of the brisket of beef, 4 or 5 slices of bacon, 2 carrots, 1 onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 4 cloves, 4 vvhole allspice, 2 blades of mace. ir£o(^e.—Choose that portion of the brisket which contains the gristle, trim it, and put it into a stewpan with the slices of bacon, which should be put under and over the meat. Add the vegetables,