447 POULTRY. the above proportion of "butter, seasoning', and spices. Cut tlie meat into small pieces, pound it well with tlie fresh butter, sprinkle in the spices gradually, and keep pounding until reduced to a per- fectly smooth paste. Put it into potting-pots for use, and cover it with clarified butter, about i inch in thickness, and, if to be kept for some time, tie over a bladder : 2 or 3 slices of ham, minced and pounded with the above ingredients, will be found an improvement. It should be kept in a dry place. tSeasonahle at any time. EEEDiisra AND Cooping the Chices.—When all the cMclrs are hatched, they should be placed along vnih the mother under a coop in a warm dry spot. If two hens happen to have their broods at the sa,me time, their respective chicks should be carefully kept separate; as, if they get mixed, and so go under the wrong coop, the hens will probably maim and destroy those who have mistaken their dwelling. After being kept snug beneath the coop for a week (the coop should be placed under cover at nightfall), the chicks may be turned loose for an hour or so in the warmest part of the day. They should be gradually weaned from the soaked bread and chopped egg, instead of whicii grits or boiled barley should be given; in 8 or 10 days their stomachs wiU be strong enough to receive bruised barley, and at the end of 3 weeks, if your chicks be healthy, they wiU be able to take care of themselves. It wiU be well, however, to keep your eye on them a week or so longer, as the elder chickens may drive them from their food. Great care should be taken that the very young chicks do not run about the wet ground or on damp grass, as this is the most prominent and fatal cause of disease. While under the coop v/ith their mother, a shallow prn or plate of water should be supplied to the chicks, as in a deeper vessel they are liable to drench themselves and take cold, or possibly to get drowned. CHICKEIT OB FOWL SALAD. 931. Ingeedients.—The remains of cold roaster boiled chicken, 2 lettuces, a little endive, 1 cucumber, a few slices of boiled beetroot, salad-dressing No. 506. 3Iode.—Trim neatly the remains of the chicken; wash, dry, and slice the lettuces, and place in the middle of a dish; put the pieces of fowl on the top, and pour the salad-dressing over them. Garnish .the edge of the salad with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings, sliced cucumber, and boiled beetroot cut in slices. Instead of cutting the eggs in rings, the yolks may be rubbed through a hair sieve, and the whites chopped very finely, and arranged on the salad in small bunches, yellow and white alternately. This should not be made long before it is wanted for table. Average cost, exclusive of the cold chicken, Sd, i Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. I Seasonable at any time. Age akd Flavour of Chickens.—It has been the opinion of the medical faculty of all ages and all countries, that the llesh of the young chicken ia the most delicate I and easy to digest of aU animal food. It is less alkalescent than the flesh of any other animal, and its entire freedom from any irritating quality renders it a fit dish, for the ailing, or those whose stomachs are naturally weak. In no animal, however, does age work such a change, in regard to the quality'of its flesh, as it does in domestic j fowls. In their infancy, cocks and hens are equally tender and toothsome ; but as time I overtakes thera it is the cock whose flesh tougheus first. A year-old cock, indeed, is fit