PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. 789 oranges, boil them for 10 minutes, place them in jars, pour over them the syrup, and, when cold, cover down. They will be fit for use in a week. Time.—3 days for the oranges to remain in water, 3 days in the syrup ; \ hour to boil the pulp, 10 minutes the oranges. Seasonable,—This preserve should be made in February or March, when oranges are plentiful. ORANGE SALAD. IiTGEEDiENTS.—6 orauges, j lb. of muscatel raisins, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—Peel 5 of the oranges ; divide them into slices without breaking the pulp, and arrange them on a glass dish. Stone the raisins, mix them with the sugar and brandy, and mingle them with the oranges. Squeeze the juice of the other orange over the whole, and the dish is ready for table. A little pounded spice may be put in when the flavour is liked; but this ingredient must be added very sparingly. Average cost^ Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from November to May. COMPOTE OF PEACHES. 157-2. Ingredients.—1 pint of syrup No. 1512, about 15 small peaches. Mode.—Peaches that are not very large, and that would not look well for dessert, answer very nicely for a compote. Divide the peaches, take out the stones, and pare the fruit; make a syrup by recipe No. 1512, put in the peaches, and stew them gently for about 10 minutes. Take them out without breaking, arrange them on a glass dish, boil the syrup for 2 or 3 minutes, let it cool, pour it over the fruit, and, when cold, it will be ready for table. Time.—10 minutes. Average costy Is. 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in August and September. Peach and Nectarine.—The peach and nectarine, which are among the most de- licious of our fruits, are considered as varieties of the same species, produced by culti- vation. The former is characterized by a very delicate down, while the latter is smooth; but, as a proof of their identity as to species, trees have borne peaches on one part and nectarines on another; and even a single fruit has had down on one side, and on the other none : the trees are almost exactly alike, as well as the blossoms, Pliny states that the peach was originally brought from Persia, where it grows naturally. At Montreuil, a village near Paris, almost the whole population is employed in the cultivation of peaches; and this occupation has maintained the inhabitants for ages, and, in consequence, they raise better peaches than anywhere else in France. In Maryland and Virginia, peaches grow nearly wild in orchards resembling forests; but the fruit is of little value for the table, being employed only in fattening hogs and for the distillation of peach brandy. On the east side of the Andes, pftaches grow wild among the cornfields and in the moun.-