FORK. 395 The Flesh of Swine in Hot Climates.—It is observed by M. Sonini, tliat the flesh of swine, in hot climates, is considered unwholesome, and therefore may account for its proscription by the legislators and priests of the East. In Egypt, Syria, and even the southern parts of Greece, although both white and dalicate, it is so flabby and surcharged with fat, that it disagrees with the strongest stomachs. Abstinence from it in general was, therefore, indispensable to health uncler the burning suns of Egypt and Arabia. The Egyptians were permitted to eat it only once a year,—on the feast of the moon; and then they sacrificed a number of these animals to that planet. At other seasons, should any one even touch a hog, he was obliged immediately to plunge into the river JS^ile, as he stood, with his clothes on, in order to purify himself from the supposed contamination he had contracted by the touch. LITTLE EAISEB POBK PIES. 636. INGREDIENTS.--2 Ibs. of llour, i lb. of butter, i lb. of mutton suet, salt and wliite pepper to taste, 4 lbs. of the neck of pork, 1 dessertspoonful of powdered sage. Ifode.—Well dry the flour, mince the suet, and put these with the butter into a saucepan, to be made hot, and add a little salt. When melted, mix it up into a stiff paste, and put it before the fire with a cloth over it until ready to make up ; chop the pork into small pieces, season it with white pepper, salt, and powdered sage ; divide the paste into rather small pieces, raise it in a round or oval form, fill with the meat, and bake in a brick oven. These pies will require a fiercer oven than those in the preceding recipe, as they are made so much smaller, and consequently do not require so soaking a heat. Ti7ne.—If made small, about l| hour. Seasonable from September to March. Swineherds of Antiquity.—From the prejudice against the nog among the ancients, those who tended them formed an isolated class, and were esteemed as the outcasts of society. However much the flesh of the animal was esteemed by the Greeks and llomans, yet the swineherd is not mentioned by either the classic writers or the poets who, in ancient Greece and Eome, painted rural life. We have no descriptions of gods or heroes descending to the occupation of keeping swine. The swineherd is never introduced into the idyls of Theocritus, nor has Virgil admitted him into his eclogues. The Eumseus of Homer is the only exception that we have of a swineherd meeting with favour in the eyes of a poet of antiquity. This may be accounted for, on the supposition that the prejudices of the Egyptians relative to this class of men, extended to both Greece and Italy, and imparted a bias to popular opinion. TO MAKE SAUSAGES. (Author's Oxford Recipe.) 837. Ii^-GEEDiENTS.—1 lb. of pork, fat and lean, without skin or gristle; 1 lb. of lean veal, 1 lb. of beef suet, 4 lb. of bread crumbs, the rind of i lemon, 1 small nutmeg, 6 sage-leaves, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, i teaspoonful of savory, ^ teaspoonful of marjoram. JfbcZe.—Chop the pork, veal, and suet finely together, add the bread crumbs, lemon-peel (which should be well minced), and a small nutmeg grated. Wash and chop the sage-leaves very finely; add these