1075 THE DOCTOR. kc, the eye should be syringed with hikcwarm water till free from them. Bo particular not to worry the eye, under the impression that the substance is still there, which the enlargement of some of the minute vessels makes the patient believe is actually the case. 2628. Sore Eyes.—Incorporate thoroughly, in a glass mortar or vessel, one part of strong citron ointment with three parts of spermaceti ointment. Use the mixture night and morning, by placing a piece of the size of a pea in the corner of the eye affected, only to be used in cases of chronic or long-standing inflammation of the organ, or its lids. 2629. Lime in the Eye.—Bathe the eye with a little weak vinegar-and- water, and carefully remove any little piece of lime which may be seen, with a feather. If any lime has got entangled in the eyelashes, carefully clear it away with a bit of soft linen soaked in vinegar-and-water. Violent inflamma- tion is sure to follow ; a smart purge must be therefore administered, and in all probability a blister must be applied on the temple, behind the ear, or nape of the neck. 2630. Stye in the Eye.—Styes are little abscesses which form between the roots of the eyelashes, and are rarely larger than a small pea. The best way to manage them is to bathe them frequently with warm water, or in warm poppy-water, if very painful. When they have burst, use an ointment composed of one part of citron ointment and four of spermaceti, well rubbed together, and smear along the edge of the eyelid. Give a grain or two of calomel with 5 or 8 grains of rhubarb, according to the age of the child, twice a week. The old- fashioned and apparently absurd practice of rubbing the stye with a ring, is as good and speedy a cure as that by any process of medicinal application ; though the number of times it is rubbed, or the quality of the ring and direction of the strokes, has nothing to do with its success. The pressure and the friction excite the vessels of the part, and cause an absorption of the effused matter under the eyelash. The edge of the nail will answer as well as a ring. 2631. Inflammation of the Eyelids.—The following ointment has been found very beneficial in inflammations of the eyeball and edges of the eyelids:—Take of prepared calomel, 1 scruple ; spermaceti ointment, | oz. Mix them well together in a glass mortar; apply a small quantity to each corner of the eye every night and morning, and also to the edges of the lids, if they are afl'ected. If this should not eventually remove the inflamma- tion, elder- flower water may be applied three or four times a day, by means of an eye-cup. The bowels should be kej^t in a laxative state, by taking occasionally a quarter of an ounce of the Cheltenham or Epsom salts. 2632. Fasting.—It is said by many able physicians that fasting is a means of removing incipient disease, and of restoring the body to its customary healthy 3 z 2