lOGO HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. "will, in all probability, be all that will be required First, the hot bath; second, the emetic ; third, a mustard plaster round the throat for five minutes ; fourth, the powders; fifth, another emetic in six hours, if needed, and the powders continued without intermission while the urgency of the symptoms, continues. When relief has been obtained, these are to be discontinued, and a dose of senna tea given to act on the bowels. Diarrhoea. 2574. The diarrhoea with which children are so frequently affected, especially in infancy, should demand the nurse's immediate attention, and when the secretion, from its clayey colour, indicates an absence of bile, a powder com- posed of 3 grains of grey powder and 1 grain of rhubarb, should be given twice, with an interval of four hours between each dose, to a child from one to two years, and, a day or two afterwards, an aperient powder containing the same ingredients and quantities, with the addition of 2 or 3 grains of scammony. For the relaxation consequent on an overloaded stomach, or acidity in the bowels, a little magnesia dissolved in milk should be employed two or threo times a day. 2575. When much griping and pain attend the diarrhoea, half a teaspoonful of Dalby*s Carminative (the best of all patent medicines) should be given, either with or without a small quantity of castor oil to carry off the exciting cause. 2576. For any form of diarrhoea that, by excessive action, demands a speedy correction, the most efiicacious remedy that can be employed in all ages and conditions of childhood is the tincture of Kino, of which from 10 to 30 drops, mixed with a little sugar and water in a spoon, are to be given every two or three hours till the undue action has been checked. Often the change of diet to rice, milk, eggs, or the substitution of animal for vegetable food, or vice versdi will correct an unpleasant and almost chronic state of diarrhoea. 2577. A very excellent carminative powder for flatulent infants may be kept in the house, and employed with advantage, whenever the child is in pain or griped, by dropping 5 grains of oil of aniseed and 2 of peppermint on hall an ounce of lump sugar, and rubbing it in a mortar, with a drachm of mag- nesia, into a fine powder. A small quantity of this may be given in a littld water at any time, and always with benefit.