651 PUDDINGS xVND PASTRY. be firm round the sides of the pot, stir it about with the slice or spattle, that the preparation may be equally congealed. Close the lid again, keep working from right to left, and, from time to time, remove the mixture from the sides, that it may be smooth; and when perfectly frozen, it is ready to put in the mould; the mould should then be placed in the ice again, where it should remain until wanted for table. KOIiY-POLlT JAM PUDDING-. 1291. iNaREDiENTS.—f lb of suet-crust No. 1215, f lb. of any kind of jam. Mode,—Make a nice light suet-crust by recipe No. 1215, and roll it out to the thickness of about i inch. Spread the jam equally over it, leaving a small margin of paste without any, where the pudding joins. Eoll it up, fasten the ends securely, and tie it in a floured cloth; put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for 2 hours. Mincemeat or marmalade may be substituted for the jam, and makes excellent puddings. Time.—2 hours. Average cosff 9d, ;S'^#c^e?^ifor 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for winter puddings, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. LEMON CHESSBCAKES. 1292. Tngeedients.—i Ih. of butter, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, 6 eggs, the rind of 2 lemons and the juice of 3. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, carefully grating the lemon-rind and straining the juice. Keep stirring the mixture over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken : when of the consistency of honey, it is done ; then put it into small jars, and keep in a dry place. This mixture will remain good 3 or 4 months. When made into cheesecakes, add a few pounded almonds, or candied peel, or grated sweet biscuit; line some patty-pans with good puff-paste, rather more than half fill them with the mixture, and bake for about $ hour in a good brisk oven. Time.—\ hour. Average cost, Is. id, Su-fficient for 24 cheesecakes. Seasonable at any time. LEMON MINCEMEAT. 1293. Ik-gredients.—2 large lemons, 6 large apples, i lb. of suet, 1 lb. of currants, i lb. of sugar, 2 oz. of candied lemon-peel, 1 oz. of citron, mixed spice to taste. Mode.—Pare the lemons, squeeze them, and boil the peel until tender enough to mash. Add to the mashed lemon-peel tho apples,