MODERN nOUSEHOLD COOKEIIY. to 1 he family of the Compositce, with Chicory, common Goats-beard, and others of the STEWED CUCTJMBEBS V/ITH ONIOITS. 1115. Ingsedients.—6 cucumbers, 3 moderate-sized onions, not quite 1 pint of white stock, cayenne and salt to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, a very little grated nutmeg. 3Iode.—TaYe and slice the cucumbers, take out the seeds, and cut the onions into thin slices ; put these both into a stewpan, with the stock, and let them boil for I hour or longer, should the cucumbers be very large. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs ; stir these into the sauce; add the cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg; bring it to the point of boiling, and serve. Do not allow the sauce to boil, or it will curdle. This is a favourite dish w^h lamb or mutton chops, rump-steaks, &c. Time.—Altogether, 20 minutes. Ave?'age costy when cheapest, 4c?. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in July, August, and September; but may be had, forced, from the beginning of March. The Melon".—This is another species of tha cucumber, and is highly esteemed for its rich and delicious fruit. It was introduced to this country from Jamaica, in 1570; since which period it has continued to he cultivated. It was formerly called the Musk Melon. EJSTDIVE. 1116. This vegetable, so beautiful in appearance, makes an excellent addition to winter salad, when lettuces and other salad herbs are not obtainable. It is usually placed in the centre of the dish, and looks remarkably pretty with slices of beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, and curled celery placed round it, so that the colours con- trast nicely. In preparing it, carefully wash and cleanse it free from insects, which are gene- rally found near the heart; remove any decayed or dead leaves, and dry it thoroughly by shaking in a cloth. This vegetable may also be served hot, stewed in cream, brQwn gravy, or butter; but when dressed thus, the sauce it is stewed in should not be very highly seasoned, as that would destroy and overpower the tlavour of the vegetable. Average costy Id, per head. Sufficient,—1 head for a salad for 4 persons, Seasotiahle from I^ovember to March. Endive.—This is the C. endivium of science, and is much used as a salad. It belongs