868 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, stir them to the Hour, &c., and beat the cake v^^ell for J hour. Pat it into a buttered mould strewn with a little fine sifted sugar, and bake the cake in a quick oven for hour. Care must be taken that it is put into the oven immediately, or it will not be light. The flavouring of this cake may be varied by adding a few drops of essence of almonds instead of the grated lemon-rind. Time,—li hour. Average cost, Is. Zd. Stcfficie7tt for 1 cake. Seasonable at any time. The Egtptiait, on Mummy Wheat, is not grown to any j^reat extent, owing to its inferior quality; but it is notable for its large produce, and is often cultivated on allotment grounds and on small farms, where quantity rather than quality is desired. At Wix, in Essex, the seed of this wheat has produced, without arti- lieial assistance, four thousandfold ; some of the ears have had eleven offshoots, and have contained, altogether, eleven grains in EGYPTIAN -WHEAT. One ear. II. i 1784. Ingredients.—h lb. of loaf sugar, not quite \ pint of water, i| o eggs, 1 lemon, \ lb. of flour, J teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—JjQil the sugar and water together until they form a thick i syrup ; let it cool a little, then pour it to the eggs, which should be^ij previously well whisked; and after the eggs and syrup are mixej, together, continue beating them for a few minutes. Grate the lemon^ rind, mix the carbonate of soda with the flour, and stir these lightly;., to the other ingredients; then add the lemon-juice, and, when thej whole is thoroughly mixed, pour it into a buttered mould, and bake , in rather a quick oven for rather more than 1 hour. The remains ol\ sponge or Savoy cakes answer very well for trifles, light puddings,' &c.; and a very stale one (if not mouldy) makes an excellent! tipsy-cake. Time.—llather more than 1 hour. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient to make 1 cake. Seasonable at any time. TO MAKE SMAIil, SPO]^3"GS-CAKES. 1785. Ingredients.—The weight of 5 eggs in flour, the weight of 8i in pounded loaf sugar; flavouring to taste. Let the flour be perfectly dry, and the sugar well poundedi and sifted. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, and beatl the latter up with the sugar; then whisk the whites until thefi become rather stifi', and mix them with the yolks, but do not stirl them more than is just necessary to mingle the ingredients well toge- f