HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1058 company, that the sequence of his articulation and the fluency of his speech are, for a time, gone ; and it will be a matter of constant vigilance, and some difficulty, to overcome the evil of so short an association. The manner in which a number of school-girls will, one after another, fall into a fit on beholding one of their number attacked with epilepsy, must be familiar to many. These several facts lead us to a juster notion of how to treat this spasmodic disease. Every effort should, therefore, be directed, mentally and physically, to break the chain of nervous action, on which the continuance of the cough depends. 2565. Symptoms.—Hooping-cough comes on with a slight oppression of breath- ing, thirst, quick pulse, hoarseness, and a hard, dry cough. This state may exist without any change from one to two or three weeks before the peculiar feature of the disease—the /iOOj?—sets in. As the characteristics of this cough are known to all, it is unnecessary to enter here, physiologically, on the subject. We shall, therefore, merely remark that the frequent vomiting and bleeding at the mouth or nose are favourable signs, and proceed to the 2566. TreatTiuntj which should consist in keeping up a state of nausea and vomiting. For this purpose, give the child doses of ipecacuanha and antimo- nial wines, in equal parts, and quantities varying from half to one and a half teaspoonful once a day, or, when the expectoration is hard and difficult of ex- pulsion, giving the following cough mixture every four hours. Take of • Syrup of squills . . ♦ . § ounce. Antimonial wine • • , , 1 ounce. Laudanum . • • , .15 drops. Syrup of Toulou • • • .2 drachms. Water ...... IJ ounce. Mix. The dose is from half a spoonful to a dessertspoonful. When the cough is urgent, the warm bath is to be used, and either one or two leeches applied over the breastbone, or else a small blister laid on the lower part of the throat. 2567. Such is the medical treatment of hooping-cough; but there is a moral regimen, based on the nature of the disease, which should never be omitted. And, on the principle that a sudden start or diversion of the mind will arrest a person in the act of sneezing or gaping, so the like means should be adopted with the hooping-cough patient; and, in the first stage, before the liooping has been added, the parent should endeavour to break the paroxysm of the cough by abruptly attracting the patient's attention, and thus, if possible, preventing the cough from reaching that height when the ingulp of air gives the hoop or crow that marks the disease ; but when once that symptom has set in, it becomes still more necessary to endeavour, by even measures of intimida- tion, to break the spasmodic chain of the cough. Exercise in the open air, "when dry, is also requisite, and charge of scene and air in all cases is of abso- lute necessity, and may be adopted at any stage of the disease.