512 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERT. that of giving np his hawk. We have abeady alkided to the hunting propen- sities of our own Edward III., and w^e may also allude to his being equally ad- dicted to hawking. According to Froissart, when this sovereign invaded France, he took with him thirty falconers on horseback, who had charge of his hawks, and every day, as his royal fancy inclined him, he either hunted, or went to the river for the purpose of hawking. In the great and powerful, the pursuit of game as a sport is allowable, but in those who have to earn their bread by the sweat of their brow, it is to be condemned. In Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy" we find a humorous story, told by Poggius, the Florentine, who reprobates this folly in such persons. It is this. A physician of Milan, that cured madmen, had a pit of water in his house, in which he kept his patients, some up to the knees, some to the girdle, some to the chin^ i^ro onodo insaniWj as they were more or less affected. One of them by chance, that was well recovered, stood in the door, and seeing a gallant pass by with a hawk on his fist, well mounted, with his spaniels after him, would needs know to what use all this preparation served. He made answer. To kill certain fowl. The patient demanded again, what his fowl might be worth which he killed in a year ? He replied, Five or ten crowns ; and when he urged him further, what his dogs, horse, and hawks stood him in, he told him four hundred crowns. With that the patient bade him begone, as he loved his life and welfare ; ''for if our master come and find thee here, he will put thee in the pit, amongst the madmen, up to the chin.'' Thus reproving the madness of such men as will spend themselves in those vain sports, to the neglect of their business and necessary affairs. 1018. As THE INEVITABLE Eesult OP SOCIAL PROGRESS is, at least to limit, if not entirely to suppress, such sports as we have here been treating of, much of the romance of country life has passed away. This is more especially the case with falconry, which had its origin about the middle of the fourth century, although^ lately, some attem^Dts have been rather successfully, made to institute a revival of the gentle art" of hawking. Julias Firmicus, who lived about that time, is, so far as we can find, the I first Latin author who speaks of falconers, and the art of teaching one species of birds to fly after and catch others. The occupation of these functionaries has now, however, all but ceased. New and nobler efforts characterize the aims of mankind in the develoj^ment of their civilization, and the sports of the field have, to a large extent, been superseded by other exercises, it may be less healthful and invigorating, but certainly more elegant^ intellectual, and humanizing.