MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 8i0 top of the leaven, and begin, with the knuckles of both hands, to knead it well. When the flour is nearly all kneaded in, begin to draw the edges of the dough towards the middle, in order to mix the whole thoroughly; and when it is free from flour and lumps and crumbs, and does not stick to the hands when touched, it will be done, and may again be covered with the cloth, and left to rise a second time. In f hour look at it, and should it have swollen very much, and begin to crack, it will be light enough to bake. Turn it then on to a paste-board or very clean dresser, and with a large sharp knife ■ divide it in tv/o; make it up quickly into loaves, and dispatch it to the oven: make one or two incisions across the tops of the loaves, as they will rise more easily if this be done. If baked in tins or pans, rub them with a tiny piece of butter laid on a piece of clean paper, to prevent the dough from sticking to them. All bread should be turned upside down, or on its side, as soon as it is drawn from the oven: if this be neglected, the under part of the loaves will become wet and blistered from the steam, which cannot then escape from them. To mahe the dough without setting a sponge^ merely mix the yeast with the greater part of the warm milk-and-water, and wet up the whole of the flour at once after a little salt has been stirred in, proceeding exactly, in every other respect, as in the direc- tions just given. As the dough will soften in the rising, it should be made quite firm at first, or it will be too lithe by the time it is ready for the oven. Time.—To be left to rise an hour the first time, | hour the second time ; to be baked from 1 to l\ hour, or baked i in one loaf from l a- to 2 hours. Italian Millet, or Great Indian Millet, is cultivated in Egypt and . Nubia, where it is called dhourra, and is used as human food, as -vvell as i for the fermentation of beer. It will grow on poor soils, and is extremely < productive. It has been introduced into Italy, where they make a coai^se bread from it; and it is also employed in pastry and puddings: they also use it for feeding horses and domestic fowls. It is the largest variety, growing to the height of six feet; but it requires a warm climate, and will not ripen in this country. A yellow variety, called Golden Millet, is ITALIAIT sold in the grocers' shops, for maldng puddings, and is very delicate and MiLLEi, wholesome. TO MAKE A PECK OF GOOD BKEAD. ! 1719. Ingeedients.—3 lbs. of potatoes, 6 pints of cold water, I pint ? of good yeast, a peck of flour, 2 oz. of salt. Ilode.—Veel and boil the potatoes; beat them to a cream while ^ Warm; then add 1 pint of cold water, strain through a colander, and : add to it i pint of good yeast, which should have been put in water