379 PORK. injury from over-salting, give time enough, for you are to have bacon until Christmas comes again. 807. The Place for Salting should, like a dairy, always be cool, but well ventilated; confined air, though cool, will taint meat sooner than the mid- day sun accompanied by a breeze. With regard to smoking the bacon, two precautions are necessary: first, to hang the flitches where no rain comes down upon them; and next, that the smoke must proceed from wood, not peat, turf, or coal. As to the time required to smoke a flitch, it depends a good deal upon whether there be a constant fire beneath ; and whether the fire be large or small: a month will do, if the fire be pretty constant and rich, as a farm- house fire usually is ; but over-smoking, or rather too long hanging in the air, makes the bacon rust; great attention should therefore be paid to this matter. The flitch ought not to be dried up to the hardness of a board, and yet it ought to be perfectly dry. Before you hang it up, lay it on the floor, scatter the flesh side pretty thickly over with bran, or with some fine sawdust, not of deal or fir; rub it on the flesh, or pat it well down upon it: this keeps the smoke from getting into the little openings, and makes a sort of crust to be dried on. 808. To keep the Bacon sweet and good, and free from hoppers, sift fine some clean and dry wood ashes. Put some at the bottom of a box or chest long enough to hold a flitch of bacon ; lay in one flitch, and then put in more ashes, then another flitch, and cover this with six or eight inches of the ashes. The place where the box or chest is kept ought to be dry, and should the ashes become damp, they should be put in the fiireplace to dry, and when cold, put back again. With these precautions, the bacon will be as good at the end of the year as on the first day. 809. For Simple General Eules, these may be safely taken as a guide ; and those who implicitly follow the directions given, will possess at the expira- tion of from 6 weeks to 2 months well-flavoured and well-cured bacon. Hog not Bacon". Anecdote of Losd Bacon.—As Lord Bacon, on one occasion, was about to pass sentence of death, upon a man of the name of Hogg, v^^ho had just been tried for a long career of crime, the prisoner suddenly claimed to be heard in arrest of judgment, saying, with an expression of arch confidence as he addressed the bench, *' I claim indulgence, my lord, on the plea of relationship; for I am convinced your lordship will never be unnatural enough to hang one of your own family." " Indeed,'' replied the judge, with some amazement, " I was not aware that I had the honour of your alliance; perhaps you wUl be good enough to name the degree of our mutual affinity." "I am sorry, my lord," returned the impudent thief, "I cannot trace the links of consanguinity; but the moral evidence is sufficiently pertinent. My name, my lord, is Hogg, your lordship's is Bacon; and ail the world wiU allow that bacon and hog are verj/ closely allied." " I am sorry," replied his lordship, " I cannot admit the truth of your instance : hog cannot be bacon till it is hanged; and so, before I can admit your plea, or acknowledge the family compact, Hogg must be hanged to-morrow morning." TO BAKE A HAM. 810. Ingredients.—Ham ; a common crust. Mode,—-A.?^ a bam for baking should be well soaked, let it remain