MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 716 Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Scasonahle at any time. shovel over the top, sprinkle sifted sugar over it, and send the souffle to table in the dish it was baked in, either with a napkin pinned round, or inclosed in a more ornamental dish. The excellence of this fashionable dish entirely depends on the proper whisking of the whites of the eggs, the manner of baking, and the expedition with which it is sent to table. Souffles should be served instantly from tlie oven, or they will sink, and be nothing more than an ordinary pudding. Time.—About ^ hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonahle at any time. TO MAKE A SOUPFLE. 14B1. Iis-GEEDIENTS.—3 heaped tablespoonfuls of potato-flour, rice- flour, arrowroot, or tapioca, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, sifted sugar to taste, i saltspoonful of salt flavouring. Ilode.—Mix the potato-flour, or whichever one of the above ingre- dients is used, with a little of the milk ; put it into a saucepan, with the remainder of the milk, the butter, salt, and sufficient pounded sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Stir these ingredients over the fire until the mixture thickens ; then take it ofl" the fire, and let it cool a little. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, beat the latter, and stir them into the souffle batter. Now whisk the whites of the eggs to the firmest possible froth, for on this depends the excellence of the dish; stir them to the other ingredients, and add a few drops of essence of any flavouring that may be preferred ; such as vanilla, lemon, orange, ginger, &c. &c. Pour the batter into a souffle- sorpFL:6-PAir. dish, put it immediately into the oven, and bake for about i hour; then take it out, put the dish into another more ornamental one, such as is made for the purpose ; hold a salamander or hot shovel over the souffle, strew it with sifted sugar, and send it instantly to table. The secret of making a souffle well, is to have the eggs well whisked, but particularly the whites, the oven not too hot, and to send it to table the moment it comes from the oven. If the souffle be ever so well made, and it is allowed, to stand before being sent to table, its appearance and goodness will be entirely spoiled. Souffles may be flavoured in various ways, but must be named accordingly. Vanilla is one of the most delicate and re- cherche flavourings that can be used for this very fashionable dish. Time.—About i hour in the oven; 2 or 3 minutes to hold the sala- mander over. Average cost, Is.