250 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Mode.—Make the melted butter very smoothly by recipe No. 376, shell the shrimps (sufficient to make J pint when picked), and put them into the butter; season with cayenne, and let the sauce just simmer, but do not allow it to boil. When liked, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce may be added. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Average costj Gd, Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. SPOTACH GBEEN FOR COLOUBINQ VARIOUS DISHES. - 523. Ingredients.—2 handfuls of spinach. Mode.—Pick and wash the spinach free from dirt, and pound the leaves in a mortar to extract the juice ; then press it through a hair sieve, and put the juice into a small stewpan or jar. Place this in a bain marie, or saucepan of boiling water, and let it set. Watch it closelj', as it should not boil; and, as soon as it is done, lay it in a sieve, so that all the water may drain from it, and the green will then be ready for colouring. If made according to this recipe, the spinach-green will be found far superior to that boiled in the ordinary way. HOT SPICE, a Delicious Adjunct to Chops, Steaks, Gravies, &c. 524. Ingredients.—3 drachms each of ginger, black pepper, and cinnamon, 7 cloves, -i oz. mace, f oz. of cayenne, 1 oz. grated nutmeg, li oz. white pepper. Mode.—Pound the ingredients, and mix them thoroughly together, taking care that everything is well blended. Put the spice in a very dry glass bottle for use. The quantity of cayenne may be increased, should the above not be enough to suit the palate. CiNNAMOir.—The cinnamon-tree (Laurtcs Cinnamo- mum) is a valuable and beautiful species of the laurel family, and grows to the height of 20 or 30 feet. The trunk is short and straight, with wide-spreading branches, and it has a smooth ash-like bark. The leaves are upon short stalks, and are of an oval shape, and 3 to 5 inches long. The flowers are in panicles, with six small petals, and the fruit is about the size of an olive, soft, insipid, and of a deep blue. This incloses a nut, the kernel of which germinates soon after it falls. The wood of the tree is white and not very sohd, and its root is thick and branching, exuding a great quantity of cam- cixvisAMorf. , phor. The inner bark of the tree forms the cinnamon of commerce. Ceylon was thought to be its native island; but it has been found in Malabar, Cochin-China, Sumatra, and the Eastern Islands ; also in the Brazils, the Mauritius, Jamaica, and other tropical localities. BROWN ROUX, a French Thickening for Gravies and Sauces. 525. Ingredients.—6 oz. of butter, 9 oz. of flour. 3Iode.—lielt the butter in a stewpan over a slow fire, end