881 BEVERAGES. Sufficient—2 teaspoonfuls of prepared cocoa for 1 broakfast-cup, or 5 oz. of the rock cocoa for tlie same quantity. COWSLIP WIKE. 1817. Ingeedients.—-To every gallon of water allow 3 lbs. of lump sugar, the rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, the rind and juice of 1 Seville orange, 1 gallon of cowslip pips. To every 41 gallons of wine allow 1 bottle of brandy. miotic.—Boil the sugar and water together for \ hour, carefully removing all the scum as it rises. Pour this boiling liquor on the orange and lemon-rinds, and the juice, which should be strained ; when milk-warm, add the cowslip pips or flowers, picked from the stalks and seeds; and to 9 gallons of wine 3 tablespoonfuls of good fresh brewers' yeast. Let it ferment 3 or 4 days; then put all together in a cask with the brandy, and let it remain for 2 months, when bottle it off for use. Time.—To be boiled \ hour ; to ferment 3 or 4 days ; to remain in the cask 2 months. Average cost, exclusive of the cowslips, which may be picked in the fields, 2s. 9d. per gallon. Seasonable,—Make this in April or May. ELDER WINE. 1818. Ingeedients.—To every 3 gallons of water allow 1 peck of elderberries; to every gallon of juice allow 3 lbs. of sugar, | oz. of ground ginger, 6 cloves, 1 lb. of good Turkey raisins; i pint of brandy to every gallon of wine. To every 9 gallons of wine 3 or 4 tablespoon- fuls of fresh brewer's yeast. 3Iode.—2oMV the water, quite boiling, on the elderberries, which should be picked from the stalks, and let these stand covered for 24 hours ; then strain the whole through a sieve or bag, breaking the fruit to express all the juice from it. Measure the liquor, and to every gallon allow the above proportion of sugar. Boil the juice and sugar with the ginger, cloves, and raisins for 1 hour, skimming the liquor the whole time ; let it stand until milk-warm, then put it into a clean dry cask, with 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of good fresh yeast to every 9 gallons of wine. Let it ferment for about a fortnight; then add the brandy, bung up the cask, and let it stand some months before it is bottled, when it will be found excellent. A bunch of hops suspended to a string from the bung, some persons say, will preserve the wdne good for several years. Elder wune is usually mulled, and served with sippets of toasted bread and a little grated nutmeg. 3 L