BEVERAGES. 857 Average cost, 2s. 6d, per gallon. Sufficient for 9 gallons. Seasonable. — Make this in March, and bottle it the following January. KASPBEBBY VINEG-AB. 1828. Ingeedients.—To every 3 pints of the best vinegar allov/ 4j pints of freshly-gathered raspberries; to each pint of liquor allow 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 wineglassful of brandy. Mode.—Let the raspberries be freshly gathered; pick them from the stalks, and put ij pint of them into a stone jar ; pour 3 pints of the best vinegar over them, and let them remain for 24 hours; then strain the liquor over another li pint of fresh raspberries. Let them remain another 24 hours, and the following day repeat the process for the third time; then drain off the liquor without pressing, and pass it through a jelly-bag (previously wetted with plain vinegar), into a stone jar. Add to every pint of the liquor 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar ; stir them together, and, when the sugar is dissolved, cover the jar; set it upon the fire in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour, removing the scum as fast as it rises ; add to each pint a glass of brandy, bottle it, and seal the corks. This is an excellent drink in cases of fevers and colds : it should be diluted with cold water, according to the taste or requirement of the patient. lime.—To be boiled 1 hour. Average cost, Is. per pint. Sufficient to make 2 quarts. Seasonable.—Make this in July or August, when raspberries are most plentiful. BHUBABB WIHE. 1829. Ingeedients.—To every 5 lbs= of rhubarb pulp allow 1 gallon of cold spring water; to every gallon of liquor allov/ 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, i oz. of isinglass, the rind of 1 lemon. Jifo<^e.—Gather the rhubarb about the middle of May; wipe it with a wet cloth, and, with a mallet, bruise it in a large wooden tub or other convenient means. When reduced to a pulp, v\^eigh it, and to every 5 lbs. add 1 gallon of cold spring water ; let these remain for 3 days, stirring 3 or 4 times a day ; and, on the fourth day, press the pulp through a hair sieve; put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon put 3 lbs. of loaf sugar; stir in the sugar until it is quite dissolved, and add the lemon-rind; let the liquor remain, and, in 4, 5, or 6 days, the fermentation will begin to subside, and a crust or head will be formed, which should be skimmed off, or the liquor drawn from it, when the crust begins to crack or separate. Put the wine into a cask, and if, after that, it ferments, rack it off into