FISH. 131 Teitacitt op Life in the Eel.—Tliere is no fish so tenacious of life as this. After it is slriniied and cut in pieces, the parts will con- tinue to move for a conwderable time, and no fish will live so long out of vrater. The Lampkex.—With the Eomans, this fish occupied a respectable rank among the piscine tribes, and in Britain it has at various periods stood high in pubHc favour. It was the cause of the death of Henry I. of England, who ate so much of them, that it brought on an attack of indigestion, which carried him off. It is an in- habitant of the sea, ascending rivers, principally about the end of winter, and, after passing a few months in fresh water, returning again to its oceanic resid(?nce. It is most in season in March, April, and May, but is, by some, regarded as an unwholesome food, although looked on by others as a great delicacy. They are dressed as eels. PISH AHD OYSTEH PIE. 257. Ingredients.—Any remains of cold fish, sucli as cod or had- dock ; 2 dozen oysters, pepper and salt to taste, bread crumbs sufficient for the quantity of fish; J teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. 3fode.—Clear the fish from the bones, and put a layer of it in a pie- dish, which sprinkle with pepper and salt; then a. layer of bread crumbs, oj^sters, nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Eepeat this till the dish is quite full. You may form a covering either of bread crumbs, which should be browned, or puif-paste, which should be cut into long strips, and laid in cross-bars over the fish, with a line of the paste first laid round the edge. Before putting on the top, pour in some made melted butter, or a little thin white sauce, and the oyster-liquor, and bake. Time,—If made of cooked fish, J hour; if made of fresh fish and puif-paste, f hour. Average cost. Is, Gd. Seasonable from September to April. J}iote.—A nice little dish may be made by flakiiig any cold fish, adding a few oysters, seasoning with pepper and salt, and coyering with mashed pota- toes ; ^ hour will bake it. FISH CAKE. 258. Ingeedients.—The remains of any cold fish, 1 onion, 1 faggot of sweet herbs ; salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of water, equal quantities of bread crumbs and cold potatoes, h teaspoonful of parsley, 1 egg, bread crumbs. Mode.—Yick the meat from the bones of the fish, whicli latter put, with the head and fins, into a stewpan with the water;. add pepper and salt, the onion and herbs, and stew slowly for gravy about 2 hours; chop the fish fine, and mix it well v/ith bread crumbs and cold K 2 CUE LA^rKET.