POULTRY. 481 BOAST PIG-EONS. 974. Ingredients.—Pigeons, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Trussmg.—Pigeons, to be good, should be eaten fresh (if kept a little, the flavour goes off), and they should be drawn as soon as killed. Cut off the heads and necks, truss the wings over the backs, and cut off the toes at the first joint: previous to trussing, they should be carefully cleaned, as no bird requires so much washing. Mode,—Wipe the birds very dry, season them inside with pepper and salt, and put about f oz. of butter into the body of each: this makes them moist. Put them down to a bright fire, and baste them well the whole of the time they are cooking (they will be done enough in from 20 to 30 minutes); garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a tureen of parsley and butter. Bread-sauce and gravy, the same as for roast fowl, are exceed- ingly nice accompaniments to roast pigeons, as also egg-sance. Tiyne.—Fvom 20 minutes to J hour. Average cost, 6d. to 9d. each. Seasonable from April to September; but in the greatest perfection from Midsummer to Michaelmas. The Pigeoit.—Tlie pigeon tribe forms a connecting link between the passerine birds and poultry. They are widely distributed over the world, some of the specie9 being found even in the arctic regions. Their chief food is grain, and they drink much; not at intervals, like other birds, but by a continuous draught, like quadrupeds. The wild pigeon, or stockdove, is the parent whence all the varieties of the domestic pigeon arc derived. In the wild state it is still found in many parts of this island, making its nest in the holes of rocks, in the hollows of trees, or in old towers, but never, like the ringdove, on branches. The blue house-pigeon is the variety principally reared for the table in this country, and is produced from our farmyards in great numbers. When young, and still fed by their parents, they are most preferable for the table, and are called squabs; under six months they are denominated squeakers, and at six months they begin to breed. Their flesh is accounted savoury, delicate, and stimulating, and the dark-coloured birds are considered to have the highest flavour, whilst the light are esteemed to have the more delicate flesh. The Pigeo^t-house, oe Dovecot.—The first thing to be done towards keeping pigeons is to provide a commodious place for their reception ', and the next is, to provide the pigeons themselves. The situation or size of the dovecot will necessarily depend on convenience but there is one point which must invariably be obsei-ved, and that is, that every pair of x)igeons has two holes or rooms to nest in. This is indispensable, as, without it, there will be no security, but the constant prospect of confusion, breaking of eggs, and the destruction of j'-oung. The proper place for the pigeon-house is the poultry-yard; but it does very well near dwellings, stables, brewhouses, bakehouses, or such offices. Some persons keep pigeons in rooms, and have them making their nests on the floor. The object is to escape the danger of the young falling out; but in such cases, there is a great risk of rats or other vermin getting at the pigeons. Aspect of the Pigeon-house.—The front of the pigeon-house should have a south- west aspect, and, if a room be selected for the purpose, it is usual to break a hole in tho roof of the building for the passage of the pigeons, but which can be closed at conveni- ence. A platform ought to be laid at the entrance for the pigeons to perch uj^on, with some kind of defence against strange cats, which will frequently depopulate a whole dovecot. Yet, although cats are dangerous neighbours for the birds, they are necessary to defend them from the approach of rats and mice, which will not only suck 2 I