382 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Average cost^ Sd. to lOd. per lb. by the whole ham. Sufficient.—Allow 2 eggs and a slice of ham to each person. Seasonable at any time. J^ote.—Ham may also be toasted or broiled ; but, with the latter method, to insure its being well cooked, the fire must be beautifully clear, or it will have a smoky flavour far fi'om agreeable. POTTED HAM, that will keep Good for some time. I. 814. Ingeedients.—To 4 lbs. of lean ham allow 1 lb. of fat, 2 tea- spoonfuls of pounded mace, i nutmeg grated, rather more than i teaspoonful of cayenne, clarified lard. Mode.—Mince the ham, fat and lean together in the above propor- tion, and pound it well in a mortar, seasoning it with cayenne pepper, pounded mace, and nutmeg; put the mixture into a deep baking-dish, and bake for i hour; then press it well into a stone jar, fill up the jar with clarified lard, cover it closely, and paste over it a piece of thick paper. If well seasoned, it will keep a long time in winter, and will be found very convenient for sandwiches, &c. Time.—i hour. Seasonable at any time. n. {A nice addition to the Brealcfast or Luncheon talle.) 815. IiTGEEDiENTS.—To 2 Ibs. of lean ham allow J lb. of fat, 1 tea- spoonful of pounded mace, i teaspoonful of pounded allspice, \ nutmeg, pepper to taste, clarified butter. Mode.—Cut some slices from the remains of a cold ham, mince them small, and to every 2 lbs. of lean, allow the above proportion of fat. Pound the ham in a mortar to a fine paste, with the fat, gradually add the seasoning and spices, and be very particular that all the ingredients are well mixed and the spices well pounded. Press the mixture into potting-pots, pour over clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. Average cost for this quantity, 25. Qd, Seasonable at any time. Importance of the Boar's Head, Scottish Feuds, &c.—The boar's head, in ancient times, formed the most important dish on the table, and was invariably the first placed on the board upon Christmas-day, being preceded by a body of servitors, a flourish of trumpets, and other marks of distinction andreverence, and carried into the hall by the individual of next rank to the lord of the feast. At some of our colleges and inns of court, the serving of the boar's head on a silver platter on Christmas-day is a custom still followed ; and till very lately, a boar's head was competed for at Christmas time by the young men of a rural parish in Essex. Indeed, so highly was the grizzly boar's head regarded in former times, that it passed into a cognizance of some of the noblest families