SAUCES; ETC. 201 FOKCEMEAT FOS BAKED PIKE. 418. Ikgredtents.—3 oz. of bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of minced savoury herbs, 8 oysters, 2 anchovies (these may be dispensed with)^ 2 oz. of suet; salt, pepper, and pounded mace to taste ; 6 tabiespoonfuls of cream or milk, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Beard and mince the oysters, prepare and mix the other ingredients by recipe No. 416, and blend the whole thoroughly together. Moisten with the cream and eggs, put all into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire till it thickens, when put it into the fish, which should have previously been cut open, and sew it up. Time.—4 or 5 minutes to thicken. Average cost, lOcI. Sufficient for a moderate-sized pike. FBEKCH FORCEMEAT. 419. It will be well to state, in the beginning of this recipe, that French forcemeat, or quenelles, consist of the blending of three separate pro- cesses ; namely, panada, udder, and whatever meat you intend usingo Panada. 420. iNaEEDiENTS.—The crumb of 2 penny rolls, 4 tabiespoonfuls of white stock, JSTo. 107, 1 oz. of butter, I slice of ham, 1 bay-leaf, a little minced parsley, 2 shalots, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, a few mushrooms (when obtainable), butter, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Soak the crumb of the rolls in milk for about J hour^ then take it out, and squeeze so as to press the milk from it; put the soaked bread into a stewpan with the above quantity of white stock, and set it on one side ; then put into a separate stewpan 1 oz. of butter, a slice of lean ham cut small, with a bay-leaf, herbs, mush- rooms, spices, &c., in the above proportions, and fry them gently over a slow fire. When done, moisten with 2 teacupfals of white stocky boil for 20 minutes, and strain the whole througli a sieve over the panada in the other stewpan. Place it over the fire, keep constantly stirring, to prevent its burning, and when quite dry, put in a small piece of butter. Let this again dry up by stirring over the fire ; then, add the yolks of 2 eggs, mix well, put the panada to cool on a clean plate, and use it when required. Panada should always be v/ell flavoured, as the forcemeat receives no ta^te from any of the other ingredients used in its preparation. Boiled Calf's Udder for French. Forcemeats. 421. Put the udder into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover it; let it stew gently till quite done, when take it out to cool. Trim all