473 POULTRY. the moment of serving. Should a very large Mayonnaise be required, use 2 fowls instead of 1, with an equal proportion of the remaining ingredients. Average cosfy with one fowl, 3s. 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. Seasonable from April to September. Black Spanish.—The real Spanish fowl is recognized by its uuifoi'mly black colour burnished with tints of green; its peculiar white face, and the large develop ment of its comb and wattle. The hens are excellent layers, and their eggs are of a very large size. They are, however, bad nurses; consequently, their eggs should be laid in the nest of other varieties to be hatched. *' In purchasing Spanish," says an authority, " blue legs, the entire absence of white or coloured feathers in the phiniage, and a large white face, with a very large high cornb, which should be erect in the cock, though pendent in the hens, should be insisted on." The flesh of this fovvl is esteemed ; but, from the smallness of its body when compared with that of the Dorking-, it is not placed on an equality with it for the table. Otherwise, however, they are profitable birds, and their handsome carriage, and striking contrast of colour in the comb, face, and plumage, are a high recommendation to them as kept fowls. Por a town fowl, they are perhaps better adapted than any other variety. BLACK SPANISH. FOWIj PILLAU, based on M. Soyer's Eecipe (c.n Indian Disli). 963. lN£iEEDiENTS.—1 lb. of rice, 2 oz. of butter, a fowl, 2 quarts of stock or good broth, 40 cardamum-seeds, ^ oz. of coriander-seed, I oz. of cloves, i oz. of allspice, i oz. of mace, J oz. of cinnamon, | oz. of peppercorns, 4 onions, 6 thin slices of bacon, 2 hard-boiled eggs. 3fode.—Well wash 1 lb. of the best Patna rice, put it into a frying- pan with the butter, which keep moving over a slow lire until the rice is lightly browned. Truss the fowl as for boiling, put it into a stewpan with the stock or broth; pound the spices and seeds thoroughly in a mortar, tie them in a piece of muslin, and put them in with the fov/1. Let it boil slowly until it is nearly done; then add the rice, which should stew until quite tender and almost dry; cut the onions into slices, sprinkle them with flour, and frj^ without breaking them, of a nice brown colour. Have ready the slices of bacon curled and grilled, and the eggs boiled hard. Lay the fowl in the form of a pyramid upon a dish, smother with the rice, garnish with the bacon, fried onions, and the hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, and serve very hot. Before taking the rice out, remove the spices. Time,—^ hour to stew the fowd without the rice ; f hour with it.