MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. m crush tlie rice to a smooth pulp with the back of a wooden spoon; line the bottom and sides of a round cake-tin with it, and put it into the oven to set; turn it out of the tin carefully, and be careful that the border of rice is firm in every part. Mix with the marmalade the beaten yolks of eggs and the butter, and stir these oyer the fire until the mixture thickens. Take it off the fire ; to this add the whites of the eggs, which should be previously beaten to a strong froth; stir all together, and put it into the rice border. Bake in a moderate oven for about i hour, or until the souffle rises very light. It should be watched, and served instantly, or it will immediately fall after it is taken frorti the oven. Time.—hour. Average cost, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonahle from July to March, STEWED APPLES AHSTD CUSTASD. {A pretty Dish for a Juvenile Supioer.) 1403. Ingredients.—7 good-sized apples, the rind of | lemon or 4 cloves, -2-lb. of sugar, | pint of water, l pint of custard No. 1423. Mode.—VdiXQ and take out the cores of the apples, without dividing them, and, if possible, leave the stalks on ; boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes ; then put in the apples with the lemon-rind or cloves, whichever flavour may be preferred, and simmer gently until they are tender, taking care not to let them break. Dish them neatly on a glass dish, reduce the syrup by boiling it quickly for a few minutes, let it cool a little ; then pour it over the apples. Have ready quite -0- pint of custard made by recipe K'o. 1423 ; pour it round, but not over, the apples when they are quite cold, and the dish isg ready for table. A few almonds blanched and cut into strips, and | stuck in the apples, would improve their appearance.—See coloured i plate Q 1. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples. . ; Average cost. Is, ! Sufficient to fill a large glass dish. Seasonahle from July to March, APPLE TRIFLE. , {A Sup2)er Dish.) ^' 1404. Ingeedients.—10 good-sized apples, the rind of I lemon,? 6 oz. of pounded sugar, i pint of milk, i pint of cream, 2 eggs, whipped* cream. 3Iode.—Veely core, and cut the apples into thin slices, and put thems into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of water, the sugar, and mincedi lemon-rind. Boil all together until quite tender, and pulp the applcsi