MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 752 Sufficietit to fill 8 or 9 glasses. Seasonable at any time. should be previously thoroughly whisked. When the mixture has been well beaten for about 10 minutes, butter a Yorkshire-pudding tin, pour in the batter, and bake it in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Let it cool, spread one half of the cake with a layer of nice preserve, place over it the other half of the cake, press the pieces slightly together, and then cut it into long finger-pieces; pile them in cross- bars on a glass dish, and serve. T{7ne.—20 minutes. Average cost, Is. 2cl. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. WHIPPED CBEAM, for putting on Trifles, serving in Glasses, &c. 1492. Ingeedients.—To every pint of cream allow 3oz. of pounded sugar, 1 glass of sherry or any kind of sweet white wine, the rind of i lemon, the white of 1 egg. 3fode,—BMh the sugar on the lemon-rind, and pound it in a mortar until quite fine, and beat up the white of the egg until quite stiff; put the cream into a large bowl, with the sugar, wine, and beaten egg, and whip it to a froth; as fast as the froth rises, take it off" with a skimmer, and put it on a sieve to drain, in a cool place. This should be made the day before it is wanted, as the whip is then so much firmer. The cream should be whipped in a cool place, and in summer, over ice, if it is obtainable. A plain whipped cream may bo served on a glass dish, and garnished with strips of angelica, or pastry leaves, or pieces of bright-coloured jelly: it makes a very pretty addition to the supper-table. Time.—About 1 hour to whip the cream. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint. Is. 9d» Sufficient for 1 dish or 1 trifle. Seasonable at any time. WHIPPPED SYLLABUBS. 1493. Ij^gredients.—I pint of cream, i pint of sherry, half that quantity of brandy, the juice of | lemon, a little grated nutmeg, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, whipped cream the same as for trifle No. 1489. 3fode.—Mix all the ingredients together, put the syllabub into glasses, and over the top of them heap a little whipped cream, made in the same manner as for trifle Ko. 1489. Solid syllabub is made by whisking or milling the mixture to a stiff froth, and putting it in^ the glasses, without the whipped cream at the top. Average cost. Is. 8d.