233 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. is fried the better. Should the kitchen not be furnished with the above article, throw the parsley into the frying-pan, and when crisp, lift it out with a slice, dry it before the fire, and when thoroughly crisp, it will be ready for use. WIBE BASKET. WiEE Basket.—For this recipe, a wire basket, as shown in the annexed engraving, will be found very useful. It is very light and handy, and may be used for other similar purposes besides that described above. PAESIjUY juice, for Colouring various Dishes. 495. Procure some nice young parsley; wash it and dry it thoroughly in a cloth ; pound the leaves in a mortar till all the juice is extracted, and put the juice in a teacup or small jar ; place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and warm it on the lain marie principle just long enough to take off its rawness ; let it drain, and it will be ready for colouring. TO PBESERVB PABSLBY THBOUGH THE WmTEK. 49^- Use freshly-gathered parsley for keeping, and wash it perfectly free from grit and dirt; put it into boiling water which has been slightly salted and well skimmed, and then let it boil for 2 or 3 minutes ; take it out, let it drain, and lay it on a sieve in front of the fire, when it should be dried as expeditiously as possible. Store it away in a very dry place in bottles, and when wanted for use, pour over it a little warm water, and let it stand for about 5 minutes. Seosonahle,—Th.h may be done at any time between June and October. AlSr EXCELLENT PICKLE. 497' Ii^GEEDiENTS.—Equal quantities of medium-sized onions, cucumbers, and sauce-apples ; teaspoonful of salt, | teaspoonful of cayenne, 1 wineglassful of soy, 1 wineglassfal of sherry; vinegar. 3Iode.—Slice sufficient cucumbers, onions, and apples to fill a pint stone jar, taking care to cut the slices very thin; arrange them in alternate layers, shaking in as you proceed salt and cayenne in the above proportion ; pour in the soy and wine, and fill up with vinegar. It will be fit for use the day it is made. Seasonable in August and September. [This recipe was forwarded to the editress of this work by a subscriber to the Englishwoman's Domestic Magazine." Mrs. Beeton^ not having tested it, cannot vouch for its excellence ; but the contributor spoke very highly in its favour.]