VEGETABLES. 588 should be perfectly mealy and dry. Potatoes vary so mucli in quality and size, that it is difficult to give the exact time for boiling; they should be attentively watched, and probed with a fork, to ascertain when they are cooked. Send them to table quickly, and very hot, and with an opening in the cover of the dish, that a portion of the steam may evaporate, and not fall back on the potatoes. Time.—Moderate-sized old potatoes, 15 to 20 minutes after the water boils ; large ones, i hour to 35 minutes. Average cost, 4s. per bushel. /Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but not good just before and whilst new potatoes are in season. JS^ote.—To keep potatoes hot, after draining the water from them, put a folded cloth or flannel (kept for the purpose) on the top of them, keeping the saucepan-lid partially uncovered. This will absorb the moisture, and keei^ them hot some time without spoiling. The Potato.—The potato belongs to the family of the Solanaoece, the greater number of wiiich inhabit the tropics, and the remainder are distributed over the temperate regions of both hemispheres, bnt do not extend to the arctic and antarctic zones. The whole of the family are suspicions; a great number are narcotic, and many are delete- rious. The roots partake of the proxoerties of the plants, and are sometimes even more active. The tubercles of such as produce them, are amylaceous and nutritive, as in. those of the potato. The leaves are generally narcotic ; but they lose this principle in boiling, as is the case with the Solanum nigrum, which are used as a vegetable when cooked. TO BOIIi POTATOSB TN THSIB JAOKSTS. 1138. IiSTGEEDiENTS.—10 or 12 potatoes ; to each i gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—To obtain this wholesome and delicious vegetable cooked in perfection, it should be boiled and sent to table with the skin on. In Ireland, where, perhaps, the cooking of potatoes is better under- stood than in any country, they are always served so. Wash the pota- toes well, and if necessary, use a clean scrubbing-brush to remove the dirt from them; and if possible, choose the potatoes so that they may all be as nearly the same size as possible. When thoroughly cleansed, fill the saucepan half full with them, and just cover the potatoes with cold water, salted in the above proportion: they are more quickly boiled with a small quantity of water, and, besides, are more savoury than when drowned in it. Ering them to boil, then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let them simmer gently until tender. Ascer- tain when they are done by probing them with a fork ; then pour the water, uncover the saucepan, and let the potatoes dry by the side of the fire, taking care not to let them burn. Peel them quickly, put them in a very hot vegetable-dish, either with or without a narjkin, and serve very quickly. After potatoes are cooked, they should never