MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. m to the size, and serve with either white, celery, oyster, or mushroom sauce, or parsley-and-butter, a little of which should be poured over the turkey. Boiled ham, bacon, tongue, or pickled pork, should always accompany this dish; and when oyster sauce is served, the turkey should be stulFed with oyster forcemeat. Tvne.—A small turkey, If hour; a large one, If hour. Average costy 5s. 6cl. to 75. Gd. each, but more expensive at Christmas, on account of the great demand. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonahle from December to February. The Turkey.—The turliey, for wliich fine bird we are indebted to America, is certainly one of the most glorious presents made by the Wew World to the Old, Some, indeed, assert that this bird was known to the ancients, and that it was served at the wed- ding-feast of Charlemagne. This opinion, however, has been controverted by first-rate FvUthorities, who declare that the French name of the bird, dindon, proves its origin ; that the form of the bird is altogether foreign, and that it is found in America alone in a wild state. There is but little doubt, frorn the information which has been gained at considerable trouble, that it appeared, generally, in Europe about the end of the 17th century; that it was first imported into France by Jesuits, Avho had been sent out missionaries to the West; and that from France it spread over Europe. To this day, in many localities in France, a turkey is called a jesuit. On the farms of IT. America, where turkeys are very common, they are raised either from eggs which have been found, or from young ones caught in the woods: they thus preserve almost entirely their original plumage. The turkey only became gradually acclimated, both on the continent and in England: in the middle of the 18th century, scarcely 10 out of 20 young turkeys lived; now, generally speaking, 15 out of the same number arrive at maturity, CKOQUETTES OF TUBKBY (Cold Meat Cookery). 987. Ingredieitts.—The remains of cold turkey; to every f ib. of meat allow 2 oz. of ham or bacon, 2 shalots, 1 02. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, egg and bread crumbs. Mode.—The smaller pieces, that will not do for a fricassee or hash, answer very \^lell for this dish. Mince the meat finely with ham or bacon in the above proportion; make a gravy of the bones and trim- mings, well seasoning it; mince the shalots, put them into a stewpan with the butter, add the flour; mix well, then put in the mince, and about 4 pint of the gravy made from the bones. (The proportion of the butter must be increased or diminished according to the quantity of mince.) When just boiled, add the yolks of 2 eggs ; put the mixture out to cool, and then shape it in a wineglass. . Cover the croquettes with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them a delicate brown. Put small pieces of parsley-stems for stalks, and serv6 with rolled bacon cut very thin. lime.S minutes to fry the croquettes. Seasonahle from December to February. The Wild TunsET.—In its wild state, the turkey is gregarious, going together in extensive flocks, immbering as many as five hundred. These frequent the great swamps of America, where they roost; but, at sunrise, leave these situations to repair to the dry