REARING, ETC., OF CHILDREN. 1029 which our present subject treats), the series of parts engaged in the process of digestion may be reduced simply to the stomach and liver, or ratlier its secretion,—the bile. The stomach is a thick muscular bag, connected above with the gullet, and, at its lower extremity, with the commencement of the small intestines. The duty or function of the stomach is to secrete from the arteries spread over its inner surfixce, a sharp acid liquid called the gastric juice ; this, with a due mixture of saliva, softens, dissolves, and gradually digests the food or contents of the stomach, reducing the whole into a soft pulpy mass, which then passes into the first part of the small intestines, where it comes in contact with the bile from the gall-bladder, which immediately separates the digested food into two i:>arts ; one is a white creamy fluid called chyle, and the absolute concentration of all nourishment, which is taken up by proper vessels, and, as we have before said, carrie^l directly to the heart, to be made blood of, and vitalized in the lungs, and thus provide for the wear and tear of the system. It must be here observed that the stomach can only digest solids, for fluids, being incapable of that process, can only hGalsorhed; and without the result of digestion, animal, at least human life, could not exist. Now, as Nature has ordained that infantine life shall be supported on liquid aliment, and as, without a digestion the body would perish, some pro- vision was necessary to meet this difficulty, and that provision was found in the nature of the liquid itself, or in other ^vords, THE MILK. The process of making cheese, or fresh curds and whey, is familiar to most persons ; but as it is necessary to the elucidation of our subject, we will briefly repeat it. The internal membrane, or the lining coat of a calf's stomach, having been removed from the organ, is hung up, like a bladder, to dry ; when required, a piece is cut off, put in a jug, a little warm water poured upon it, and after a few hours it is fit for use ; the liquid so made being called rennet. A little of this rennet, poured into a basin of warm milk, at once coagulates the greater part, and separates from it a quantity of thin liquor, called 2vhei/. This is precisely the action that takes place in the infant's stomach after every supply from the breast. The cause is the same in both cases, the acid of the gastric juice in the infant's stomach immediately converting the milk into a soft cheese. It is gastric juice, adhering to the calf's stomach, and drawTi out by the water, forming rennet, that makes the curds in the basin. The cheesy substance being a solid, at once undergoes the process of digestion, is separated into cJiyle by the bile, and, in a few hours, finds its w^ay to the infant's heart, to become blood, and commence the architecture of its little frame. This is the simple process of a baby's digestion :—milk converted into cheese, cheese into chyle, chyle into blood, and blood into flesh, bone, and tegument—how simple is the cause, but how sublime and wonderful are the effects ! 2458. We have described the most important of the three functions that take place in the infant's body—respiration and digestion ; the third, namely, circulation, we hardly think it necessary to enter on, not being called for by the requirements of the nurse and mother ; so we shall omit its notice, and proceed from theoretical to more practical considerations. Children of weakly