VEGETABLES. 569 PEIED CUCUMBEKS. 1113. Ingkedients.—2 or 3 cucumbers, pepper and salt to taste, flour, oil or butter. il/otfe.—Pare the cucumbers and cut them into slices of an equal thickness, commencing to slice from the thick, and not the stalk end of the cucumber. "Wipe the slices dry with a cloth, dredge them with flour, and put them into a pan of boiling oil or butter; Ueep turning them about until brown; lift them out of the pan, let them drain, and serve, piled lightly in a dish. These will be found a great im- provement to rump-steak: they should be placed on a dish with the steak on the top. Time—5 minutes. Average cost, when cheapest, 4J. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable,—Forced from the beginning of March to the end of June ; in full season in July and August. Properties and Uses op the Cucurbits.—The common cucumber is the C. sativus of science, and although the whole of the family have a similar action in the animal economy, yet there are some which present us with great anomalies. The roots of those which are perennial contain, besides fecula, which is their base, a resinous, acrid, and bitter principle. The fruits of this family, however, have in general a sugary taste, and are more or less dissolving and perfumed, as we find in the melons, gourds, cucumbers, vegetable-marrows, and squashes. But these are slightly laxative if partaken of largely. In tropical countries, this order furnishes the inhabitants with a large portion of their food, which, even in the most arid deserts and most barren islands, is of the finest quality. In China, Cashmere, and Persia, they are cultivated on the lakes on the lloating collections of weeds common in these localities. In India they are everjrwhere abundant, either in a cultivated or wild state, and the seeds of all the family are sweet and mucilaginous. STEWED CUCUMBERS. 1114- Ingeediekts.—3 large cucumbers, flour, butter, rather more than I pint of good brown gravy. 3fode,—Cut the cucumbers lengthwise the size of the dish they are intended to be served in; empty them of the seeds, and put them into boiling water with a little salt, and let them simmer for 5 minutes; then take them out, place them in another stewpan, with the gravy, and let them boil over a brisk fire until the cucumbers are tender. Should these be bitter, add a lump of sugar; carefully dish them, skim the sauce, pour over the cucumbers, and serve. T/me.—Altogether, 20 minutes. Average cost, when cheapest. Id, each. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable in June, July, and August; but may be had, forced, from the beginning of March. The Chate.—This cucumber is a native of Egypt and Arabia, and produces a fruit of almost the same substance as that of the Melon. In Egypt it is esteemed by the upper class natives, as well as by Europeans, as the most pleasant fruit they have.