459 POULTRY. tinniber of eggs they produce; indeed, in man)- parts, they are as well Itnown^a ^'^everlasting layers" as by their proper name. Ilovvever, the experienced brceoer would take good care to send the eggs of his everlasting layers to market, and not use them for home consumption, as, although they may be as large as thoso laid by other hens, the amount of nutri- ment contained in them is not nearly so great. Mr. Mowbray once kept an ac- count of the number of eggs produced by this prolific bird, with the following result:—From the 25th of October to the 25th of the follomng September five hens laid 503 eggs; the average weiglit of each egg was one ounce five drachms, and the total weight of the whole, exclu- sive of the shells, 50$ pounds. Taking the weight of the birds at the fair average of five pounds each, we thus see them producing withiu a year double their spangled eolands. weight of egg alone; and, supposing every egg to contain a chick, and allowing the chick to grow, in less than eighteen months from the laying of the first egg, two thousand Jioe hundred pounds of chicken-m«at would be the result. The Poland is easily fattened, and its flesh is generally considered juicier and of richer flavour than most others. CUimiED FOWL OR OHICKEH (Cold Meat Cookery). 942. Ingeedients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, 2 large onions, 1 apple, 2 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of curry-powder, 1 teaspoonful of flour, f pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode—^liQQ the onions, peel, core, and chop the apple, and cut the fowl into neat joints; fry these in the butter of a nice brown; then add the curry-powder, fiour, and gravy, and stew for about 20 minutes. Put in the lemon-juice, and serve with boiled rice, either placed in a ridge round the dish or separately. Two or three shalots or a little garlic may be added, if approved. Time.—Altogether \ hour. Av. cost^ exclusive of the cold fowl, 6d. Seasonable in the winter. The Cochht-Chijta.—About fifteen years ago, the arrival of this distinguished Asiatic created in England as great a sensation as might be expected from the landing of aa invading host. The first pair that ever made their appearance here were na- tives of Shanghai, and were presented to the queen, who exhibited them at the Dublin poultry-show of 1846. Then began the " Cochin "furor. As soon as ifc was discovered, despite the most strenuous endeavours to keep the tremendous secret, that a certain dealer was pos- sessed of a pair of these birds, straight- way the avenues to that dealer's shop were blocked by broughams, and cha- riots, and hack cabs, until the shy poulterer had been tempted by a suffi- ciently high sum to part with his trea- sure._ Bank-notes were exchanged for Cochin chicks, and Cochin eggs were in as great demand as though they had "been laid by the fabled golden goose. The reign of the Cochin China was, however, of inconsiderable duration. The bird