CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. 725 JELLY OF TWO COLOUKS 1441. Ingredients.—H pint of calf's-feet jelly No. 1416, a few drops of prepared cochineal. Mode—Make M pint of jelly by recipe No. 1416, or, if wished more economical, of clarified syrup and gelatine, flavouring it in any way that may be preferred. Colour one-half of the jelly with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and the other half leave as pale as possible. Have ready a mould well wetted in every part; pour in a small quantity of the red jelly, and let this set; when quite firm, pour on it the same quantity of the pale jelly, and let this set; then proceed in this manner until the mould is full, always taking care to let one jelly set before the other is poured in, or the colours would run one into the other. When turned out, the jelly should have a striped appearance. For variety, half the mould may be filled at once with one of the jellies, and, when firm, filled up with the other: this, also, has a very pretty eflect, and is more expeditiously prepared than when the jelly is poured in small quantities into the mould. Blancmange and red jelly, or blancmange and raspberry cream, moulded in the above manner, look very well. The layers of blancmange and jelly should I be about an inch in depth, and each layer should be perfectly hard- ened before another is added. Half a mould of blancmange and half a mould of jelly are frequently served in the same manner. A few pretty dishes may be made, in this way, of jellies or blancmanges left from the-preceding day, by melting them separately in a jug placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and then moulding them by the foregoing directions. (See coloured plate Si.) Time.—\ hour to make the jelly. Average cost, with calf s-feet jelly, 2s.; with gelatine and syrup, more economical. Sufficient to fill li-pint mould. Seasonable at any time. Note.—In making the jelly, use for flavonring a very pale shcny, or tho colour will be too dark to contrast nicely with the red jelly. LEMOIT BLANCMANGE. M42. Ingredients.—1 quart of milk, the yolks of 4 eggs, 3 oz. of groimd rice, 6 oz. of pounded sugar, l| oz. of fresh butter, the rind of 1 lemon, the juice of 2, }i oz. of gelatine.