77 FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. slice of bread, 6 leeks peeled and cut into tliin slices as far as the white extends upwards from the roots, a teacupful of rice, a teaspoon- ful of salt, and half that of pepper, and 2 quarts of water. 3Iode.—The water must be completely boiling before anything is put into it; then add the whole of the ingredients at once, with the exception of the rice, the salt, and the pepper. Cover, and let these come to a brisk boil; put in the others, and let the whole boil slowly for an hour, or till all the ingredients are thoroughly done, and their several juices extracted and mixed. Time.—2i hours. Average costy Zd, per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. The Potato.—Humboldt doubted whether this root was a native of South America; but it has been found growing wild both in Chili and Buenos Ayres. It was first brought to Spain from the neighbourhood of Quito, in the early part of the sixteenth century, first to England from Virginia, in 1586, and first planted by Sir Walter Ealeigh, on his estate of Youghal, near Cork, in Ireland. Thence it was brought and planted in Lancashire, in England, and was, at first, recommended to be eaten as a delicate dish, and not as common food. This was in 1587. Nutritious Properties.—OS & thousand parts of the potato, Sir H. Davy found about a fourth nutritive 3 say, 200 mucilage or starch, 20 sugar, and 30 gluten. PBIJSrCE OP "WALES'S SOUP. 148. Ingredients.—12 turnips, 1 lump of sugar, 2 spoonfuls of strong veal stock, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 quarts of very bright stock, No. 105. J/ocfe.—Peel the turnips, and with a cutter cut them in balls as round as possible, but very small. Put them in the stock, which must be very bright, and simmer till tender. Add the veal stock and season- ing. Have little pieces of bread cut round, about the size of a shilling; moisten them with stock ; put them into a tureen and pour the soup over without shaking, for fear of crumbling the bread, which would spoil the appearance of the soup, and make it look thick. Time—2 hours. Seasonable in the winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Peince op Wales.—This soup was invented by a philanthropic friend of the Editress, to be distributed among the poor of a considerable village, when the Prince of Wales attained his majority, on the 9th November, 1859. Accompanying this fact, the following notice, which appears in " Beeton's Dictionaetop Univeksal Informa- tion," may appropriately be introduced, premising that British princes attain their majority in their 18th year, whilst mortals of ordinary rank do not arrive at that period till their 21st.—" Albeet Edwaed, Prince of Wales, and heir to the British throne, merits a place in this work on account of the high responsibilities which he is, in all pro- babiHty, destined to fulfil as sovereign of the British empire. On the 10th of November, 1858, he was gazetted as having been invested with the rank of a colonel in the army. Speaking of this circumstance, the Times said,—* The significance of this event is, that it marks the period when the heir to the British throne is about to take rank among