293 BEEF. rather more than 4- pint; strain this, thicken with a teaspoonful of ilour, and let the gravy cool ; skim off all the fat; lay in the meat, let it get hot through, but do not aliov/ it to boil, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. The gravy may be flavoured as in the preceding recipe. Time.—llather more than 2 hours. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 2d. Seasonahle at any time. Note.—Either of the above recipes may be served in walls of mashed potatoes browned ; in whicli case the sippets should be omitted. Be careful that hashed meat does not boil^ or it will become tough. TO PREPAKS HUNa BEEF. ^30. This is preserved by salting and drying, either with or vrith- out smoke. Hang up the beef 3 or 4 days, till it becomes tender, but take care it does not begin to spoil; then salt it in the usual way, either by dry-salting or by brine, with bay-salt, brown sugar, saltpetre, and a little pepper and allspice; afterv/ards roll it tight in a cloth, and hang it up in a warm, but not hot place, for a fortnight or more, till it is sufficiently hard. If required to have a little of the smoky ilavour, it may be hung for some time in a chimney-corner, or smoked in any other way: it will keep a long time. HUHTES'S BEEF. 631. Ikghedients.—For a round of beef vv^eighing 25 lbs. allow 3 oz. of saltpetre, 3 oz. of coarse sugar, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 grated nutmeg, I oz. of allspice, 1 lb. of salt, f lb. bay-salt. Mode.—Let the beef hang for 2 or 3 days, and remove the bone. Pound spices, salt, (&c. in the above proportion, and let them be reduced to the finest powder. Put the beef into a pan, rub all the ingre- dients well into it, and turn and rub it every day for rather more than a fortnight. Yv'hen it has been sufEeiently long in pickle, wash the meat, bind it up securely with tape, and put it into a pan with I pint of water at the bottom; mince some suet, cover the top of the meat with it, and over the pan put a common crust of flour and water; bake for 6 hours, and, when cold, remove the paste. Save the gravy that flows from it, as it adds greatly to the ilavour of hashes, stews, <jco. The beef may be glazed and garnished with meat jelly. , Time.—Q hours. Seasonahle all the year. Note.—In salting or pickling beef or pork for family consumption, it not being generally required to be kept for a great length of time, a less quantity of