VEGETABLES. 603 When thoroughly drained, brush the marrows over with egg, and sprinkle with bread crumbs; have ready some hot lard, fry the marrow in this, and, when of a nice brown, dish ; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and serve. Time.—About h hour to boil the marrow, 7 minutes to fry it. Average cost, in full season, Is. per dozen. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable in July, August, and September. The Vegetable Makeow.—This vegetable is now exten- sively used, and belongs to the Cucurbits. It is the C. ovifera of science, and, like the melon, gourd, cucumber, and squash, is widely diffused in the tropical or warmer regions of the globe. Of the nature of this family v/e have already spoken when treating of the cucumber. vegetable maeeovv. CUT VEGETABLES FOB SOUPS, &c. 1172. The annexed engraving represents a cutter for shaping vege- tables for soups, ragouts, stews, &c.; carrots and turnips being the usual vegetables for which this utensil is used. Cut the vegetables into slices about i inch in thickness, stamp them out with the cutter, and boil them for a few minutes in salt and water, until tender. Turnips should be cut in rather thicker slices than carrots, on account of the former boiling more quickly to a pulp than the latter. Caekots.—Several species of carrots are cultivated,—the red, the yellow, and the which. Those known as the Crecy carrots are considered the best, and are very sweet. Tha carrot has been classed by hygienists among flatulent vegetables, and as difficult of digestion. When the root becomes old, it is almost as hard as wood; but the young carrot, which has not reached its full growth, is tender, relishing, nutritiousj and digests well when properly cooked. TEaETABLE-CUITES. VEGETABLE MABBOV/S IJST WHITE SAUCE. 1173. IiN^GEEDiENTS.—4 or 5 moderatc-sized marrows, | pint of white sauce, K'o. 539. JfbfZe.—Pare the marrows; cut them in halves, and shape each half at the top in a point, leaving the bottom end flat for it to stand upright in the dish. Boil the marrows in salt and water until tender; ' take them up very carefully, and arrange them on a hot dish. Have ready i pint of white sauce, made by recipe l^o. 539; pour this over the marrows, and serve. VEGETABLE MAKEOW WHITE SAUCE.