085 DUTIES OF THE LADY'S-MAID. 2278. Linen. —Before sending- linen to wash, the lady's-maid should see that ever3'thing under her charge is properly mended ; for her own sake she should take care that it is sent out in an orderly manner, each class of garments by themselves, with a proper list, of which she retains a copy. On its return, it is still more necessary to examine every piece separately, so that all missing buttons be supplied, and only the articles properly washed and in perfect repair passed into the wardrobe. 2279. Ladies who keep a waiting-maid for their own persons are in the habit of paying visits to their friends, in which it is not unusual for the maid to accom- pany them; at all events, it is her duty to pack the trunks ; and this requires not onl}'- knowledge but some practice, although the improved trunks and port- manteaus now made, in which there is a place for nearly everything, render this more simple than formerly. Before packing, let the trunks be thoroughly well cleaned, and, if necessary, lined with paper, and everything intended for packing laid out on the bed or chairs, so that it may be seen what is to be stowed away; the nicer articles of dress neatly folded in clean calico wrappci-s. Having satisfied herself that ever3'thing wanted is laid out, and that it is in perfect order, the packing is commenced by disposing of the most bulky articles, the dressing-case and work-box, skirts, and other articles requiring room, leaving the smaller articles to fill up ; finally, having satisfied herself that all is included, she should lock and cover up the trunk in its canvas case, and then pack her own box, if she is to accompany her mistress. 2280. On reaching the house, the lady's-maid w^illbe shown her lady's apart- ment ; and her duties here are what they were at home ; she wall arrange her mistress's things, and learn which is her bell, in order to go to her when she rings. Her meals will be taken in the housekeeper's room ; and here she must be discreet and guarded in her talk to any one of her mistress or her concerns. Her only occupation here will be attending in her lady's room, keeping her things in order, and making her rooms comfortable for her. 2281. The evening duties of a lady's-maid are pretty nearly a repetition of those of the morning. She is in attendance when her mistress retires; she assists her to undress if required, brushes her hair, and renders such other assistance as is demanded ; removes all slops ; takes care that the fire, if any, is safe, before she retires to rest herself. 2282. Ironing is a part of the duties of a lady's-maid, and she should bo able to do it in the most perfect manner when it becomes necessary. Ironing is often badly done from inattention to a few very simple requirements. Cleanliness is the first essential: the ironing-board, the fire, the iron, and the ironing-blanket should all be perfectly clean. It wnll not be necessary here to enter into details on ironing, as full directions are given in the Duties of the Laundry-maid." A lady's-maid will have a great deal of ironing-out" to do; such as light evening dresses, muslin dresses, &c., which