MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 552 3Iode.—Trim and boil the artichokes by recipe No. 1080, and rub them over with lemon-juice, to keep them white. When they are quite tender, take them up, remove the chokes, and divide the bot- toms ; dip each piece into batter, fry them in hot lard or dripping", and garnish the dish with crisped parsley. Serve with plain melted butter. Time.—20 minutes to boil the artichokes, 5 to 7 minutes to fry them. Sufficient,—5 or 6 for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. A FBENCH MODE OF COOKING ABTICHOKES. 1082. Ingeedients.—5 or 6 artichokes; to each | gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, i- teaspoonful of pepper, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 oz. of butter. 3Iode.—Cut the ends of the leaves, as also the stems; put the artichokes into boiling water, with the above proportion of salt, pepper, herbs, and butter; let them boil quickly until tender, keeping the lid of the saucepan off, and when the leaves come out easily, they are cooked enough. To keep them a beautiful green, put a large piece of cinder into a muslin bag, and let it boil with them. Serve with plain melted butter. Tune.—20 to 25 minutes. Sufficient,—5 or 6 sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. ABTICHOKES A L'lTALIENNE. 1083. Ikgeedients.—4 or 5 artichokes, salt and butter, about i pint of good gravy. Mode,—Trim and cut the artichokes into quarters, and boil them until tender in water mixed with a little salt and butter. When done, drain them well, and lay them all round the dish, with tlie leaves outside. Have ready some good gravy, highly flavoured with mushrooms; reduce it until quite thick, and pour it round the ai'ti- chokes, and serve. Time,—20 to 25 minutes to boil the artichokes. Sufficient for one side-dish. Seasonable from July to the beginning of September. Constituent Properties of the Artichoke.—According to the analj^sis of Bra- connet, the constituent elements of an artichoke are,—starch 30, albumen 10, uncrjstal- lizable sugar 148, gum 12, fixed oil 1, v/oody fibre 12, inorganic matter 27, and water 770.