814 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. of black pepper, 4 oz. of sugar, 3 oz. of juniper berries, 6 oz. of salt. and salt to taste. For the batter, 3 eggs, 1 pint of milk, 4 table- spoonfuls of fioiir, t saltspoonful of salt. Ifode.—Cut up the steak and kidney into convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a pie-dish, with a good seasoning of salt and pepper; mix the flour with a small quantity of milk at first, to prevent its being lumpy; add the remainder, and the 3 eggs, w^liich should be v\^ell beaten; put in the salt, stir the batter for about 5 minutes, and pour it over the steak. Place it in a tolerably brisk oven immediately, and bake for 1^ hour. Time.—1| hour. Average cost, Is. ^d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The rGmains of cold beef, rather underdone, mc.j be substituted for the steak, and, when hked, the smallest possible quantity of minced onion or slialot may be added. BoiiiSD ToisrauE. 673. Inghedieitts.—1 tongue, a bunch of savoury herbs, water. Mode.—In choosing a tongue, ascertain how long it has been dried or pickled, and select one with a smooth skin, which denotes its being young and tender. If a dried one, and rather hard, soak it at least for 12 hours previous to cooking it; if, however, it is fresh from the pickle, 2 or 3 hours will be sufHcient for it to remain in soak. Put the tongue into a stewpan v/ith plenty of cold water and a bunch of savoury herbs ; let it gradually come to a boil, skim well, and sim- mer very gently until tender. Peel oif the skin, garnish with tufts of cauliflowers or Brussels sprouts, and serve. Boiled tongue is. frequently sent to table with boiled poultry, instead of ham, and is, by many persons, preferred. If to serve cold, peel it, fasten it down,to a pioce of board by sticking a fork through the root, and another through the top, to straighten it. When cold, glaze it, and put a paper ruche round the root, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Ti7ne.—A large smoked tongue, 4 to 4i hours; a small one, 2i to 3 hours. A large unsmoked tongus, 3 to 3J hours; a small one, 2 to 2| hours. Average cost, for a moderate-sized tongue, 3s. Qd. Seasonable at any time, TO CUBS TONGUES. I. 674. IiTGREBiEKTS.—For a tongue of 7 lbs., 1 oz. of saltpetre, \ oz.