602 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. and when tender, pour them into a colander ; let them drain, arrange them in a vegetable-dish, removfe the string that the greens were tied with, and serve. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, id. for a dish for 3 persons. Seasonable in March, April, and May. Cabbage, Tubttip-tops, and G-eeens.—All the cabbage tribe, which, comprises cole- worts, brocoli, cauliflower, sprouts, and turnip-tops, in order to be delicate, should be dressed young, when they have a rapid growth; but, if they have stood the summer, in order to be tender, they should be allowed to have a touch of frost. The cabbage contains much vegetable albumen, and several parts sulphur and nitrate of potass. Cabbage is heavy, and a long time digesting, which has led to a belief that it is very nourishing. It is only fit food for robust and active persons; the sedentary or delicate should carefully avoid it. Cabbage may be prepared in a variety of ways : it serves as a garniture to several recherche dishes,—partridge and cabbage for example. Bacon and cabbage is a very favourite dish; but only a good stomach can digest it. BOILED VEGETABLE MABBOW. 1170. Ii^^GEEDiENTS.—To each i gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tahiespoonful of salt; vegetable marrows. 3fode.—Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion; put in the marrows after peeling them, and boil them until quite tender. Take them up with a slice, halve, and, should they be very large, quarter ETABLE MAKKow thcm. Dlsh thcm on toast, and send to table ' o2f TOAST. with them a tureen of melted butter, or, in lieu of this, a small pat of salt butter. Large vegetable marrows may be preserved throughout the winter by storing them in a dry place ; when wanted for use, a few slices should be cut and boiled in the same manner as above; but, when once begun, the marrow must be eaten quickly, as it keeps but a short time after it is cut. Vegetable marrows are also very delicious mashed: they should be boiled, then drained, and mashed smoothly with a wooden spoon. Heat them in a saucepan, add a seasoning of salt and pepper, and a small piece of butter, and dish with a few sippets of toasted bread placed round as a garnish. Time.—Young vegetable marrows 10 to 20 minutes ; old ones, k to I hour. Average cost, in full season. Is. per dozen. Siificient,—Miow 1 moderate-sized marrow for each person. Seasonable in July, August, and September; but may be preserved all the winter. FBIED VEGETABLE MABBOViT. 1171. Iis'GEEDiENTS.—3 medium-sized vegetable marrows, egg and bread crumbs, hot lard. iJf oc?e.—Peel, and boil the marrows until tender in salt and water; then drain them and cut them in quarters, and take out the seeds.