MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 588 Mode—Boil the potatoes, well drain them, and pound them smoothly in a mortar, or beat them np with a fork; add the stock or broth, and rub the potatoes through a sieve. Put the puree into a very clean saucepan with the butter; stir it well over the fire until thoroughly hot, and it will then be ready to serve. A puree should be rather thinner than mashed potatoes, and is a delicious accompaniment to delicately broiled mutton cutlets. Cream or milk may be substituted for the broth when the latter is not at hand. A casserole of potatoes, which is often used for ragouts instead of rice, is made by mashing potatoes rather thickly, placing them on a dish, and making an opening in the centre. After having browned the potatoes in the oven, the dish should be wiped clean, and the ragout or fricassee poured in. Time.—Ahout | hour to boil the potatoes; 6 or 7 minutes to warm the puree. Average cost, is. per bushel. Sufficient.—Allow 1 lb. of cooked potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. Varieties op the Potato.—These are very numerous. " They differ," says an authority, " in their leaves and bulk of haulm; in the colour of the skin of the tubers; in the colour of the interior, compared with that of the skin; in the time of ripening; in being farina- ceous, glutinous, or watery; in tasting agreeably or disagreeably; in cooking readily or tediously; in the length of the subterraneous stolones to which the tubers are attached ; in blossoming or not blossoming; and, finally, in the soil which they prefer." The earliest varieties grown in fields are,—the Early Kidney, the Nonsuch, the Early Shaw, and the Early Champion. This last is the most generally cultivated round London : it is both SWEBT POTATO. mealy and hardy. The sweet potato is but rarely eaten in Britain; but in America it is often servea at table, and is there very highly esteemed. POTATO BIS SOLES. 1147. Ingbedients.—Mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to taste; when liked, a very little minced parsley, egg, and bread crumbs. Mode.—Boil and mash the potatoes by recipe No. 1145; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and, when liked, a little minced parsley. Eoll the POTATO EissoLEs. potatocs iuto small balls, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard for about 10 minutes ; let them drain before the fire, dish them on a napkin, and serve. Time.—lQ minutes to fry the rissoles. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The flavour of these rissoles may be very much increased by adding finely-minced tongue or ham, or even chopped onions, when these are liked.