THE DOCTOR. 1085 should be taken in large quantities. If eggs cannot be obtained, milk, or flour-and-water, should be given as a substitute for them at once. When the depression of strength is very great indeed, a little warm brandy-and-water must be given. In the course of an hour or two the patient should take two tablespoonfuls of castor-oil, and if inflammation comes on, it is to be treated as directed in the article on acids and alkalis. The diet should also be the same. If the patient recovers, great soreness of the gums is almost certain to take place. The simplest, and at the same time one of the best modes of treatment, is to wash them well three or four times a day with brandy-and- water. 2658. Calomel.—A heavy white powder, without taste, and insoluble in water. It has been occasionally known to destroy life.—Spn2:>ioms. Much the same as in the case of corrosive sublimate.—Treatment. The same as for corrosive sublim-ate. If the gums are sore, wash them, as recommended in the case of corrosive sublimate, with brandy-and-water three or four times a day, and keep the patient on fluids, such as arrowroot, gruel, broth, or beef-tea, according to the other sym^Jtoms. Eating hard substances would make the gums more sore and tender. 2659. (Copper.—The preparations of this metal which are most likely to be the ones producing poisonous symptoms, are hlue-stone and verdigris. People are often taken ill after eating food that has been cooked in cojpper saucepans. When anything has been cooked in one of these vessels, it shoitld never he allowed to cool in it. — Symptoms. Headache, pain in the stomach, and purging; vomiting of green or blue matters, convulsions, and spasms,— Treatment. Give whites of eggs, sugar-and-water, castor-oil, and drinks, such as arrowroot and gruel. 2660. Emetic Tartar.—Seen in the form of a white powder, or crystals, with a slightly metallic taste. It has not often been known to destroy life.—Symp- toms. A strong metallic taste in the act of swallowing, followed by a burning pain in the region of the stomach, vomiting, and great purging. The pulse is small and rapid, the skin cold and clammy, the breathing difficult and pain- ful, and the limbs often much cramped. There is also great prostration of strength.—Treatment. Promote the vomiting by giving plenty of warm water, or warm arrowroot and water. Strong tea, in large quantities, should be drunk ; or, if it can be obtained, a decoction of oak bark. The after-treat- ment is the same as that for acids and alkalis ; the principal object in all these cases being to keep down the inflammation of the parts touched by the poison by means of leeches, warm poppy fomentations, fever-mixtures, and very low diet. 2661. Lead, and its preparations. Sugar of Lead, Goulard*s Extract, White Lead,—Lead is by no means an active poison, although it is popularly con- sidered to bo so. It mostly affects people by being taken into the system slowly, as in the case of painters and glaziers. A newly-painted house, too.