138 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and cut it up into small square pieces ; put the stock, cream, and seasoning into a stewpan, add the lobster, and let it simmer gently for 6 minutes. Serve it in the shell, which must be nicely cleaned, and have a border of puff-paste ; cover it with bread crumbs, place small pieces of butter over, and brown before the fire, or with a salamander. Time—I hour. Average cost, 2s. 6d. Seasonahle at any time. Celeeitt or the Lobstes,—In its element, tlie lobster is able to run with great speed upon its legs, or small claws, and, if alarmed, to spring, tail foremost, to a considerable distance, " even," it is said, " with the swiftness of a bird flying." Fishermen have seen some of them pass about thirty feet vsdth a wonderful degree of swiftness. When frightened, they will take their spring, and, like a chamois of the Alps, plant themselves up^n the very spot upon which they designed to hold themselves. XiOBS^TSK CUBBY (an Entree). 274. Ikghediek'ts.—1 lobster, 2 onions, 1 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, f pint of medium stock, No. 105, the juice of i lemon. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and cut it into nice square pieces; fry the onions of a pale brown in the butter, stir in the curry- poY\'der and stock, and simmer till it thickens, when put in the lobster; stew the whole slowly for i hour, and stir occasionally; and just before sending to table, put in the lemon-juice. Serve boiled rice with it, the same as for other curries. I'lme.—Altogether, f hour. Average cost, 35. locasonahJe at any time. IjOBSTEB CUTIiETS (an Entree). 275. Ikgkedieitts.—1 large hen lobster,. 1 oz. fresh butter, i salt- spoonful of salt, pounded mace, grated nutmeg, cayenne and white pepper to taste, egg, and bread crumbs. Mode.—Pick the meat from the shell, and pound it in a mortar with the butter, and gradually add the mace and seasoning, well mixing the ingredients ; beat all to a smooth paste, and add a little of the spawn ; divide the mixture into pieces of an equal size, and shape them like cutlets. They should not be very thick. Brush them over >Yith egg, and sprinkle with bread crumbs, and stick a short piece of the small claw in the top of each ; fry them of a nice brown in boiling lard, and drain them before the fire, on a sieve reversed ; arrange them nicely on a dish, and pour bechamel in the middle, but not over the cutlets. Time.—About 8 minutes after the cutlets are made. Average cost for this dish, 2s. ^d. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.