767 PRESEllVES, CONFECTIONARY^ ETC. sugar very finely in a mortar, strew it over the apricots, which should he placed on dishes, and let them remain for 12 hours. Break the stones, blanch the kernels, and put them with the sugar and fruit into a preserving-pan. Let these simmer very gently until clear; take out the pieces of apricot singly as they become so, and, as fast as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Put the apricots into small jars, pour over them the syrup and kernels, cover the jam with pieces of paper dipped in the purest salad-oil, and stretch over the top of the jars tissue- paper, cut about 2 inches larger and brushed over with the white of an egg : when dry, it will be perfectly hard and air-tight. Time.—12 hours sprinkled with sugar ; about J hour to boil the jam. Average cost.—When cheap, apricots may be purchased for pre- serving at about Is, 6d. per gallon. Siifficie7it,—10 lbs. of fruit for 12 pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in August or September. BABBEBRIES IN BUNCHES. 1523. Ingeedients.—1 pint of syrup No. 1513, barberries. Mode.—Prepare some small pieces of clean white wood, 3 inches long and i inch wide, and tie the fruit on to these in nice bunches. Have ready some clear syrup, made by recipe No. 1513; put in the barberries, and simmer them in it for 2 successive days, boiling them for nearly | hour each day, and covering them each time with the syrup when cold. When the fruit looks perfectly clear, it is sufficiently done, and should be stored away in pots, with the syrup poured over, or the fruit may be candied. Time.—i hour to simmer each day. Seasonable in autumn. Note.—The berries in their natural state make a very pretty garnishing for dishes^ and may even be used for the same purpose, preserved as above; and look exceedingly nice on sweet dishes. TO MAKE BABIiEY-SUGAB. 1524. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of sugar allow J pint of water, I the white of an egg. Mode.—Put the sugar into a well-tinned saucepan, with the water, and, when the former is dissolved, set it over a moderate fire, adding the well-beaten egg before the mixture gets warm, and stir it well together. When it boils, remove the scum as it rises, and keep it boiling until no more appears, and the syrup looks perfectly clear; then strain it through a fine sieve or muslin bag, and put it back into the saucepan. Boil it again like caramel, until it is brittle, when