1073 THE DOCTOR. occur, a surgeon should always be sent for. Until he arrives, however, tho followhig treatment should bo adopted :—Place the patient full-length on his back, and keep him warm. Apply fomentations of flannels wrung out of boiling water and sprinkled with spirits of turpentine to the part, and give v/ine and sal-volatile in such quantities as the prostration of strength requires ; always bearing in mind the great fact that you have to steer between two quicksands—death from present prostration and death from future excite- ment, which will always be increased in proportion to the amount of stimulants given. Give, therefore, only just as much as is absolutely necessary to keep life in tho body. 2623. Concussion of Brain—Stunning.—This may be caused by a blow or a fall.—Symptoms. Cold skin ; weak pulse; almost total insensibility ; slow, vreak breathing; pupil of eye sometimes bigger, sometimes smaller, than natural; inability to move ; unwillingness to answer when spoken to. These symptoms come on directly after the accident.—Treatment. Place the patient quietly on a warm bed, send for a surgeon, and do nothing else for the first four or six Jiours. After this time the skin will become hot, the pulso full, and the patient feverish altogether. If the surgeon has not arrived by the time these symptoms have set in, shave the patient's head, and apply tho following lotion (No. 2): Mix half an ounce of sal-ammoniac, two tablespoon- fuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of gin or whisky, in half a pint of water. Then give this pill (No. 1): Mix five grains of calomel and the same quantity of antimonial powder with a little bread-crumb, and make into two pills. Give a black draught three hours after the pill, and two tablespoonfuls of the above-mentioned fever-mixture every four hours. Keep on low diet. Leeches arc sometimes to be applied to the head. These cases are often fol- lowed by violent inflammation of the brain. They can, therefore, only be attended to properly throughout by a surgeon. The great thing for people to do in these cases is—nothing ; contenting themselves with putting the patient to bed, and waiting the arrival of a surgeon. 2624. The Cholera and Autumnal Complaints.—To oppose cholera, there seems no surer or better means than cleanliness, sobriety, and judicious Tcntilation. Where there is dirt, that is the place for cholera ; where v/indov,'s and doors are kept most jealously shut, there cholera will find easiest entrance ; and people who indulge in intemperate diet during the hot days of autumn are actually courting death. To repeat it, cleanliness, sobriety, and free ventilation almost always defy the pestilence ; but, in case of attack, immediate recourse should be had to a physician. The faculty soy that a large number of lives have been lost, in many seasons, solely from delay in seeking medical assistance. They even assert that, taken early, the cholera is by no means a fatal disorder. The copious use of salt is recommended on very excellent authority. Other autumnal complaints there are, of which diarrhosa is tho worst example. They come on with pain, flatulence, sickness, with or without vomiting, followed by loss of appetite, general lassitude, and weakness. If 3 2