427 VEAL. Mode,—Cut the cutlets into square pieces, and season them with pepper, salt, and pounded mace; put them in a pie-dish with the savoury herbs sprinkled over, and 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon or ham placed at the top : if possible, this should be previously cooked, as undressed bacon makes the veal red, and spoils its appearance. Pour in a little water, cover with crust, ornament it in any way that is approved; brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a well- heated oven for about H hour. Pour in a good gravy after baking, which is done by removing the top ornament, and replacing it after the gravy is added. Time.—About ijhour. Average cost, 2s. 6J. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle from March to October. A VERY Veal Dinner.—At a dinner given by Lord Polkemmet, a Scotch nobleman and judge, his guests saw, when the covers were removed, that the fare consisted of veal broth, a roasted fillet of veal, veal cutlets, a veal pie, a calPs head, and caifs-foot jelly. The judge, observing the surprise of his guests, volunteered an explanation.— "Ou, ay, it's a' caufj when we kill a beast, we just eat up ae side, and doun the tither." VEAL AIJD HAM PIE. 898. Ikgeedients.—2 lbs. of veal cutlets, i lb. of boiled ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced savoury herbs, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, a strip of lemon-peel finely minced, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, ^ pint of water, nearly 4 pint of good strong gravy, puff-crust. Mode—Qui the veal into nice square pieces, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a pie-dish; sprinkle over these a portion of the herbs, spices, seasoning, lemon-peel, and the yolks of the eggs cut in slices; cut the ham very thin, and put a layer of this in. Proceed in this manner until the dish is full, so arranging it that the ham comes at the top. Lay a puff-paste on the edge of the dish, and pour in about i pint of water; cover with crust, ornament it with leaves, brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in a well-heated oven for 1 to 14 hour, or longer, should the pie be very large. When it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, nearly J pint of strong gravy : this should be made sufficiently good that, when cold, it may cut in a firm jelly. This pie may be very much enriched by adding a few mushrooms, oysters, or sweetbreads ; but it will be found very good without any of the last-named additions. Time,—1J hour, or longer, should the pie be very large. Average cost, 35. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle from March to October.