150 .MODERN HOUSEHOLD COGKEPvY. Note.—Cut lemon should be put on the table with this fish ; and a little of the juice squeezed over it is considered by many persons a most agreeable addition. Boiled peas are also^ by some connoisseurs^ considered especially adapted to be served with salmon. To Choose Salmon.—To be good, the belly should be firm and thick, which may readily be ascertained by feehng it with the thumb and finger. The cir- cumstance of this fish having red gills, though given as a standing rule in most cookery-books, as a sign of its goodness, is not at all to be relied on, as this quality can be easily given them by art. SALMON AiMD OAPEB SAUCE. 302. Ikgeedients.—2 slices of salmon, 3; lb. butter, | teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 shalot; salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode,—Lay the salmon in a baking-dish, place pieces of butter over it, and add the other ingredients, rubbing a little of the seasoning . into the hsh ; baste it frequently; when done, take it out and. drain for a minute or two; lay it in a clish, pour caper sauce over it, and serve. Salmon dressed in this way, with tomato sauce, is very delicious. Time.—About f hour. Average cost^ Is. Zd. per lb. Seasonable from April to August. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. The Migeatoey Habits of the Salmoi?". — The instinct with which the salmon revisits its native river, is one of the most curious circumstances in its natural history. As the swallow returns annually to its nest, so it returns to the same spot to deposit its ova. This fact would seem to have been repeatedly proved, M. De Lande fastened a copper ring round a salmon's tail, and found that, for three successive seasons, it returned to the same place. Dr. Bloch states that gold and silver rings have been attached by eastern princes to salmon, to prove that a communication existed between the Persian Grulf and the Caspian and iNorthern Seas, and that the experiment succeeded. COIiLABSD BALMO]^. 303. Ingeedie^s'ts.—A piece of salmon, say 3 lbs., a high seasomQg of salt, pounded mace, and pepper ; water and vinegar, 3 bay-leaves. J/oc/'e.—Split the hsh ; scale, bone, and wash it thoroughly clean ; wipe it, and rub in the seasoning inside and out; roll it up, and bind firmly ; lay it in a kettle, cover it with vinegar and water vinegar, in proportion to the water); add the bay-leaves and a good seasoning of salt and whole pepper, and simmer till done. Do not remove the lid. Serve with melted butter or anchovy sauce. For preserving the collared fish, boil up the liquor in which it was cooked, and add a little more vinegar. Pour over when cold. Time.—| hour, or rather more. Habitat op the Salmois-.—The salmon is styled by Walton the " king of fresh-water fish," and is found distributed over the north of Europe and Asia, from Britain to