LAMB. S53 I LAMB CHOPS. 746. Ingeedients.—Loin of lamb, pepper and salt to taste. 3fode.'—Trim off the flap from a fine loin of lamb, and cut it into chops about f inch in thickness. Have ready a bright clear fire ; lay the chops on a gridiron, and broil them of a nice pale brown, turning them when required. Season them with pepper and salt; serve very hot and quickly, and garnish with crisped parsley, or place them on mashed potatoes. Asparagus, spinach, or peas are the favourite accompaniments to lamb chops. Time.—About 8 or 10 minutes. Average cost^ Is. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 2 chops to each person. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB CUTLETS AND SPIITACH (an Entree). 747. Ingredients.—8 cutlets, egg and bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little clarified butter. Mode.—Cut the cutlets from a neck of lamb, and shape them by cutting off the thick part of the chine-bone. Trim off most of the fat and all the skin, and scrape the top part of the bones quite clean. Brush the cutlets over with egg, sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and season with pepper and salt. Now dip them into clarified butter, sprinkle over a few more bread crumbs, and fry them over a sharp fire, turning them when required. Lay them before the fire to drain, and arrange them on a dish with spinach in the centre, which should be previously well boiled, drained, chopped, and seasoned. Time.—About 7 or 8 minutes. Average cost, lOd. per lb. ' Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. iV'oie.—Peas, asparagus, or French beans, may be substituted for the spinach; or lamb cutlets may be served with stewed cucumbers, Soubise sauce, &c. &c, LAMB'S FBY. 748. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of lamb's fry, 3 pints of water, egg and bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Jfot/e.—Boil the fry for J hour in the above proportion of water, take it out and dry it in a cloth; grate some bread down finely, mix with it a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a high seasoning of pepper and salt. Brush the fry lightly over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle over the bread crumbs, and fry for 5 minutes. Serve very