MODEHN HOUSEHOLD COOKEUY. 480 wlien they are trussed, brush them over with the yolk of an egg; sprinkle with bread crumbs, and roast them before a quick lire; baste them continually with fresh butter, and keep sprinkling with the bread crumbs until the birds are well covered. Dish them on bread crumbs fried ia clarified butter, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon. Broiled larks are also very excellent: they should be cooked over a clear fire, and would take about 10 minutes or \ hour. Time.—I hour to roast; 10 minutes to broil. Seasonable.—In full season in November. Note.—Larks may also be plainly roasted, without covering tbem with egg and bread crumbs ; they should bo dished on fried crumbs. BEOIT.ED PIGEONS. 973. lNGiiEDiP:2TTS.—Pigeons-, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Take care that the pigeons are quite fresh, and carefully pluck, draw, and wash them ; split the backs, rub the birds over with butter, season them with pepper and salt, and broil them over a moderate fire for J hour or 20 minutes. Serve very hot, with either mushroom-sauce or a good gravy. Pigeons may also be plainly boiled, and served with parsley and butter; they should be trussed like boiled fowls, and take from i hour to 20 minutes to boil. Time.—To broil a pigeon, from i hour to 20 minutes; to boil one, the same time. Average cost, from Qd. to 9tZ. each. Seasonable from April to September, but in the greatest perfection from midsummer to Michaelmas. Thu PouTEr. PiGEOH.—This 19 a very favourite pigeon, and, without doubt, the most curious of his species. lie is a tail strong bird, as lie had need bo to carry about his great inflated crop, frequently as large and as round as a naiddling-sized turnip. A perfect pouter, seen on a windy day, is certainly a ludicrous sigiit: his feathered legs have the appearance of white trousers; his tapering tail looks like a swallow-tailed coat; his head is entirely concealed by his immense windy protu- berance ; and, altogether, he reminds you of a Uttle " swell" of a past century, staggering uuder a bale of linen. The most common pouters are the .blues, buffs, and whites, or an intermixture of all these various colours. The pouter is not a prolific breeder, is a bad nurse, and more likely to degenerate, if not repeatedly crossed and re-ci'ossed Avith fresh stock, than any other pigeon : nevertheless, it is a useful bird to keep if you are founding a new colony, as it is much attached to its home, and little apt to stray; oon- soquently it is calculated to induce more'restless birds to ^i.ottle down and make themselves comfortable. If you wish to breed pouters, you cannot do worse than intruat them with the care of their own eggs.