222 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEHY. LIVBB AND LEMON SATJOB FOR POUliTRY. 462. iFGREDiENTS.—Tlie Hvei of a fowl, one lemon, salt to taste, f pint of melted butter, No. 376. Mode.—ash the liver, and let it boil for a few minutes ; peel the lemon very thin, remove the white part and pips, and cut it into very small dice; mince the liver and a small quantity of the lemon rind very fine; add these ingredients to \ pint of smoothly-made melted butter ; season with a little salt, put in the cut lemon, heat it gradually, but do not allow it to boil, lest the butter should oil. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Sufficient to serve with a pair of small fowls. IiIVEB AND PARSLEIT SAUCB FOR POULTRY. 463. Ingeedients.—The liver of a fowl, one tablespoonful of minced parsley, ^ pint of melted butter, No. 376. llode.—Wash and score the liver, boil it for a few minutes, and mince it very fine ; blanch or scald a small bunch of parsley, of which there should be sufiicient when chopped to fill a tablespoon ; add this, with the minced liver, to i pint of smoothly-made melted butter; let it just boil; when serve. Time.—1 minute to simmer. Sufficient for a pair of small fowls. LOBSTER SAUCE, to serve with Turbot, Salmon, Brill, &c. {Very Good.) 464. Ingeedients.—1 middling-sized hen lobster, f pint of melted butter, No. 376; 1 tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, t oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, a little pounded mace when liked, 2 or ^ tablespoonfuls of cream. Jfot/e.—Choose a hen lobster, as this is indispensable, in order to render this sauce as good as it ought to be. Pick the meat from the shells, and cut it into small square pieces; put the spawn, which will be found under the tail of the lobster, into a mortar vv^ith i oz. of butter, and pound it quite smooth; rub it through a hair-sieve, and cover up till wanted. Make f pint of melted butter by recipe No. 376; put in ail the ingredients except the lobster-meat, and well mix the sauce before the lobster is added to it, as it should retain its square form, and not come to table shredded and ragged. Put in the meat, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, as the colour would immediately be spoiled ; for it should be remembered that this sauce should always have a bright red appearance. If it is in-