CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. 717 Mode.—Bruise the ginger, put it into a small jar, pour over sufficient whiskey to cover it, and let it remain for 3 clays ; then cut the apples into thin slices, after paring and coring them ; add the sugar and the lemon-juice, which should be strained; and simmer all together ver?/ gently until the apples are transparent, but not broken. Serve cold, and garnish the dish with slices of candied lemon-peel or preserved ginger. Time.—2> days to soak the ginger; about f hour to simmer the apples very gently. Average cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 3 dishes. Seasonahle from July to March. FKE3MCH PANCAKES. 1425. Ingeediekts.—2 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sifted sugar, 2 oz. of flour, i pint of new milk. Mode.—JjQ^t the eggs thoroughly, and put them into a basin with the butter, which should be beaten to a cream ; stir in the sugar and flour, and when these ingredients are well mixed, add the milk; keep stirring and beating the mixture for a fey/ minutes; put it on buttered plates, and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. Serve with a cut lemon and sifted sugar, or pile the pancakes high on a dish, with a layer of preserve or marmalade bety/een each. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, id. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonahle at any time. DUTCH FLUMMERY. 14^26. Ikgeedients.—li OZ. of isinglass, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 pint of water, 4 eggs, 1 pint of sherry, Madeira, or raisin- wine ; sifted sugar to taste. 3/oc?e.~Put the water, isinglass, and lemon-rind into a lined sauce- pan, and simmer gently until the isinglass is dissolved; strain this into a basin, stir in the eggs, which should be well beaten, the lemon- juice, which should be strained, and the wine ; sweeten to taste with pounded sugar, mix all well together, pour it into a jug, set this jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and keep stirring it one way until it thickens ; but take care that it does not boil. Strain it into a mould that has been oiled or laid in water for a short time, and put it in a cool place to set. A tablespoonful of brandy stirred in just before it is poured into the mould, improves the flavour of this dish : it is better if made the day before it is required for table. Time.—- hour to simmer the isinglass; about i hour to stir the mixture oyer the fire.