MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 87. Modern Cookery stands so greatly indebted to tlie gastronomic pro- pensities of our French neighbours, that many of their terms are adopted and applied by English artists to th© same as well as similar preparations of their own. A vocabulary of these is, therefore, indispensable in a work of this kind. Accordingly, tho following will be found sufficiently complete for all ordinary purposes:— EXPLANATION OF FEENCH TERMS USED IN MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Aspic.—A savoury jelly, used as an exterior moiilding for cold game, poultry, fish, &c. This, being of a transparent nature, allows the bird which it covers to be seen through it. This may also be used for decorating or garnishing. AssiETTE (plate).—Assiettes are the small entrees and Jiors-d^ceuvres, the quantity of which does not exceed what a plate will hold. At dessert, fruits, cheese, chestnuts, biscuits, &c., if served upon a plate, are termed assiettes.— AssiETTE VOLANTE is a dish which a servant hands round to the guests, but is not placed upon the table. Small cheese souffles and different dishes, which ought to be served very hot, are frequently m-ade assiettes volantes. Au-ELEU.—Fish dressed in such a manner as to have a bluish appearance. Bain-marie.—An open saucepan or kettle of nearly boiling water, in which a smaller vessel can be set for cooking and warming. This is very useful for keeping articles hot, without altering their quantity or quality. If you keep sauce, broth, or soup by the fireside, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and the sauce thickens as well as reduces; but this is prevented by using the bain-marie, in which the water should be very hot, but not boiling. Bechamel.—French white sauce, now frequently used in Enghsh cookery. Blanch.—To whiten poultry, vegetables, fruit, &c., by plunging them into boiling water for a short time, and afterwards plunging them into cold water, there to remain until they are cold. Blanquette.—A sort of fricassee. BouiLLi.—Beef or other meat boiled; but, generally speaking, boiled beef is understood by the term. Bouillie.—A French dish resembling hasty-pudding. Bouillon.—A thin broth or soup. Braise.—To stew meat with fat bacon until it is tender, it having previously been blanched, BraisierE.—A saucepan having a lid with ledges, to put fire on the top. Brider.—To pass a packthread through poultry, game, &c., to keep together their members. Caramel (burnt sugar).—This is made with a piece of sugar, of tho size of a nut, browned in the bottom of a saucepan; upon which a cupful ot stock is