4-10 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERT. the blood. In tlie experiments made by Mr, John Hunter, to discover the use of this general diffusion of air through the bodies of birds, he found that it prevents their respiration from being stopped or interrupted by the rapidity of their motion through a resisting medium. It is well known that, in pro- portion to celerity of motion, the air becomes resistive ; and were it possible for a man to move with the swiftness of a swallow, as ho is not provided with an internal construction similar to that of birds, the resistance oi the air would soon suffocate him. 921. Birds are Distributed over every part of the Globe, being found in the coldest as well as the hottest regions, although some species are restricted to particular countries, whilst others are widely dispersed. At certain seasons of the year, many of them change their abodes, and migrate to climates better adapted to their temperaments or modes of life, for a time, than those v^rhich they leave. Many of the birds of Britain, directed by an unerring instinct, take their departure from the island before the com- mencement of mnter, and proceed to the more congenial warmth of Africa, to return with the next spring. The causes assigned by naturalists for this peculiarity are, either a deficiency of food, or the want of a secure asylum for the incubation and nourishment of their young. Their migrations are gene- rally performed in large com.panies, and, in the day, they follow a leader, which is occasionally changed. During the night, many of the tribes send forth a continual cry, to keep themselves together ; although one would think that the noise which must accompany their flight would be sufficient for that purpose. The flight of birds across the Mediterranean was noticed three thousand years ago, as we find it said in the book of Numbers, in the Scrip- tures, that "There went forth a wind from the Lord, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall upon the camp, and a day's journey round about it, to the height of two cubits above the earth." 922. If the Beauty of Birds were not a recommendation to their being universally admired, their general liveliness, gaiety, and song would endear them to mankind. It appears, however, from accurate observations founded upon experiment, that the notes iDCCuliar to different kinds of birds are altogether acquired, and that they are not innate, any more than language is to man. The attempt of a nestling bird to sing has been compared to the endeavour of a child to talk. The first attem^Dts do not seem to possess the slightest rudiments of the future song; but, as the bird grows older and becomes stronger, it is easily perceived to be aiming at acquiring the art of giving utterance to song. Whilst the scholar is thus endeavouring to form his notes, v/hen he is once sure of a passage, he usually raises his tone, but drops it again when he finds himself unequal to the voluntary task he has midertaken. "LTany well-authenticated facts," says an ingenious writer, "seem decisively to prove that birds have no innate notes, but that, liko mankind, the language of those to whose care they have been committed at their birth, will be their language in after-life." It would appear, however.