397 PORK, 4 oz. of salt, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, I teaspoonful of grated nutmeg*, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley. 3fode.—'RemoYe from the pork all skin, gristle, and bone, and chop it finely with the bacon ; add the remaining ingredients, and carefully mix altogether. Pound it well in a mortar, make it into convenient- sized cakes, flour these, and fry them a nice brown for about 10 minutes. This is a very simple method of making sausage-meat, and on trial vnll prove very good, its great recommendation being, that it is so easily made. 2zme.—10 minutes. Seasonable from September to March. TO SCAIiD A STJCKIHG-Pia. 840. Put the pig into cold water directly it is killed ; let it remain for a few minutes, then immerse it in a large pan of boiling v/ater for 2 minutes. Take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as quickly as possible. When the skin looks clean, make a slit down the belly, take out the entrails, well clean the nostrils and ears, wash the pig in cold water, and wipe it thoroughly dry. Take off the feet at the first joint, and loosen and leave sufficient skin to turn neatly over. If not to be dressed immediately, fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. The LriRNED Pig.—That the pig is capable of education, is a fact long known to the world; and though, like the ass, naturally stubborn and obstinate, that he is equally amenable with other animals to caresses and kindness, has been shown from very remote time ; the best riioderu evidence of his docility, however, is the instance of the learned pig, first exhibited about a century since, but which has been continued down to our own time by repeated instances of an animal who will put together all the letters or ligures that compose the day, month, hour, and date of the exhibition, besides many other unquestioned evidences of memor}'-. The instance already given of breaking a sow into a pointer, till she became more stanch even than the dog itself, though surprising, is far less wonderful than that evidence of education where so' generally obtuse an animal may be taught not only to spell; but couple figures and give dates correctly. BOAST SUCKmG-PIQ. 841. Ingeedients.—-Pig, 6 oz. of bread crumbs, 16 sage-leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a piece of butter the size of an egg, salad oil or butter to baste with, about 4 pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Irlode.—A sucking-pig, to be eaten in perfection, should not be more than three wrecks old, and should be dressed the same day that it is killed. After preparing the pig for cooking, as in the preceding recipe, stuff it with finely-grated bread crumbs, minced sage, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter the size of an egg, all of which should be well mixed together, and put into the body of the pig. Sew up the