720 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERT. GENEVA WAFEHS. 1431. Ingeedients.—2 eggs, 3 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of pounded sugar. Mode.—Well whisk the eggs ; put them into a basin, and stir to them the butter, which should be beaten to a cream; add the flour and sifted sugar gradually, and then mix all well together. Butter a baking-sheet, and drop on it a teaspoonful of the mixture at a time, leaving a space betv^^een each. Bake in a cool oven; watch the pieces of paste, and, when half done, roll them up like wafers, and put in a small wedge of bread or piece of wood, to keep them in shape. Eeturn them to the oven until crisp. Before serving, remove tho bread, put a spoonful of preserve in the widest end, and fill up with whipped cream. This is a very pretty and ornamental dish for the supper-table, and is very nice and very easily made. 2Vwi(3.—Altogether 20 to 25 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the preserve and cream, Id. Sufficient for a nice-sized dish. Seasonable at any time, I GING-EH CBEAM. i 1432. Iis'GiiEDiENTS.—The yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of cream, 3 oz. of I preserved ginger, 2 dessertspoonfuls of syrup, sifted sugar to taste, I 1 oz. of isinglass. | Mode.—Slice the ginger finely; put it into a basin with the syrup, i the well-beaten yolks of eggs, and the cream ; mix these ingredients j well together, and stir them over the fire for about 10 minutes, or J until the mixture thickens; then take it off the fire, whisk till nearly ] cold, sweeten to taste, add the isinglass, which should be melted and Ij strained, and serve the cream in a glass dish. It may be garnished , with slices of preserved ginger or candied citron. Time,—About 10 minutes to stir the cream over the firen . Average cost, with cream at is. per pint, 25. 3c?. Sufficient for a good-sized dish. Seasonable at any time. Preserved Ginger comes to us from tlie West Indies. It is made by scaldinpf the roots when they are green and full of sap, tlien peeling them in cold water, and puttiug^ j tliem into jars, with a rich syrup; in which state we receive them. It should be chosen ot a bright-3^ellow colour, with a little transparency: what is dark-coloured, fibrous, and i stringy, is not good. Ginger roots, fit for preserving, and in size equal to West Indian, j have been produced in the Eoyal Agricultural Garden in Edinburgh. TO MAKE GOOSEBEBil3r FOOL. ' : 1433. Ikghedients.—Green gooseberries ; to every pint of pulp add 1 pint of milk, or ^ pint of cream and i pint of milk; sugar 1 to taste.