478 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. been a favourite resort of these birds from time immemorial, where they have always received the name of Ware geese, no doubt from their continually feeding on marina vegetables. Their flesh is very agreeable. HASHED GOOSE. 967. Iis'GEEDiENTS.—The remains of cold roast goose, 2 onions, 2oz. of butter, 1 pint of boiling water, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of musliroom ketchup. 3fode,—Q\it up the goose into pieces of the size required; the inferior joints, trimmings, &c., put into a stewpan to make the gravy; slice and fry the onions in the butter of a very pale brown; add these to the trimmings, and pour over about a pint of boiling water; stew these gently for f hour, then skim and strain the liquor. Thicken it with flour, and flavour with port wine and ketchup, in the above pro- portion ; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and put in the pieces of goose ; let these get thoroughly hot through, but do not allow them to boil, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether, rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold goose, 4c?. Seasonable from September to March. The Wild Goose.—This bird is sometimes called the " Gray-lag" and is the original of the domestic goose. It is, according to Pennant, the only species which the Britons could take young, and familiarize. *' The Gray-lag," says Mr. Gould, *' is known to inhabit aU the extensive marshy districts throughout the temperate regions of Europe generally; its range northwards not extending further than the fifty-third degree of latitude, while southwards it extends to the northern portions of Africa, easterly to Persia, and we believe it is generally dispersed over Asia Minor." It is the bird that saved the Capitol by its vigilance, and by the Eomans was cherished accordingly, BOAST GOOSE. 968. Ingrediei^ts.—Groose, 4 large onions, 10 sage-leaves, J lb. of bread crumbs, 1^ oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. Choosing and Trussing.—Seleat a goose with a clean white skin, plump breast, and yellow feet: if these latter are red, the bird is old. Should the weather permit, let it hang for a few days : by so doing, the flavour will be very much improved. Pluck, singe, draw, and carefully wash and wipe the goose; cut ofl" the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over; cut off the feet at the first joint, and separate the pinions at the first joint. Beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin, put a skewer through the under part of each wing, and having drawn up the legs closely, put a skewer into the middle of each, and pass the same quite through the body. Insert another skewer into the small of the leg, bring it close down to the side bone, run it through, and do the same to the other