3^1 PORK. Time.—A ham weighing: 10 lbs., 4 hours to simmer gently; 15 lbs., 5 hours ; a very large one, about 6 hours. Average cost, from 8d to lOJ. per lb. by the whole ham. /Seasonable all the year. HOW TO BOIL A HAM TO GIVE IT AK EXCELLENT FLAVOUR. 8i2. Ingredients.—-Vinegar and water, 2 heads of celery, 2 turnips^ 3 onions, a large bunch of savoury herbs. 3fode.—Prepare the ham as in the preceding recipe, and let it soak for a few hours in vinegar and water. Put it on in cold water, and v/hen it boils, add the vegetables and herbs. Simmer very gently until tender, take it out, strip off the skin, cover with bread-raspings, and put a paper ruche or frill round the knuckle. Time,—A ham weighing 10 lbs., 4 hours. Average cost, 8d. to 10c?. per lb. by the whole ham. Seasonable at any time. How TO Silence a Pig. Anecdote of Chaules V.—When the emperor Charles Y. V7as one day walking in the neighbourhood of Vienna, full of pious considerations, engendered by the thoughts of the Dominican cloister he was about to visit, he was much annoyed by the noise of a pig, which a country youth ^yas carrying a little way before him. At length, irritated by the unmitigated noise, "Have you not learned how to quiet a pig ? " demanded the imperial traveller, tartly. " Noa," replied the ingenuous peasant, ignorant of the quality of his interrogator ;— ** noa; and I should very much like to know how to do it," changing the position - of his burthen, and giving his load a surreptitious pinch of the ear, which immediately altered the tone and volume of his complaining. "Why, take the pig by the tail," said the emperor, "and you will see how quiet he will become." Struck by the novelty of the suggestion, the countryman at once dangled his noisy companion by the tail, and soon discovered that, under the partial congestion caused by it3 inverted position, the pig had indeed become silent; when, looldng with admiratioa:^ on his august adviser, he exclaimed,— " Ab, you must have learned the trade much longer than I, for you understand it a great deal better." PBIED HAM AND EGGS (a Breakfast Dish). 813. Ingeedients.—Ham; eggs. I\fode,—Cut the ham into slices, and take care that they are of the same thickness in every part. Cut off the rind, and if the ham should be particularly hard and salt, it will be found an improvement to soak it for about 10 minutes in hot water, and then dry it in a cloth.. Put it into a cold frying-pan, set it over the fire, and turn the slices 3 or 4 times whilst they are cooking. When done, place them on a dish, which should be kept hot in front of the fire during the time the eggs are being poached. Poach the eggs, slip them on to the slices of ham, and serve quickly. Time.—"J or 8 minutes to broil the ham.