MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. and serve hot or cold, although the latter is the more usual mode. It is more economical to make two or three tarts at one time, as the trimmings from one tart answer for lining the edges of the dish for another, and so much paste is not required as when they are made singly. Unless for family use, never make fruit pies in very large dishes; select them, however, as deep as possible. Time,—J hour to 40 minutes. Average cost^ in full season, ^d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. SeasonaUe in June, July, and August. Note.—A few currants added to the cherries will be found to impart a nice piquant taste to them. Cherkies.—According to Lucullus, the cherry-tree was known in Asia in the year .of Eome 680. Seventy different species of cherries, wild and culti-vated, exist, which are dis- tinguishable from each other by the difference of their form, size, and colour. The French distil from cherries a liqueur named kirsch-waser (eau de cerises); the Italians prepare, from a cherry called marusca, the liqueur named marasquin, sweeter and more agreeable than the former. _ The- most wholesome cherries have a tender and delicate skin; those with a hard skin should be very carefully masticated. Sweetmeats, syrups, CHERET. tarts, entremets, &c., of cherries, are universally approved. COLD PUDDING. 1262. Iintgeedients.—4 eggs, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, a little grated lemon-rind, 2 oz. .of raisins, 4 tablespoonfuls of marmalade, a i few slices of sponge cake. ilibi/e.—Sweeten the milk with lump sugar, add a little grated i lemon-rind, and stir to this the eggs, which should be well whisked; line a buttered mould with the raisins, stoned and cut in half; spread the slices of cake with the marmalade, and place them in the mould;, then pour in the custard, tie the pudding down with paper and a cloth, and boil gently for 1 hour: when cold, turn it out, and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average costf Is. 2d, , Siiffi^cient for 5 or 6 persons. | Seasonable at any time. 31 COLLEGE PUDDINGS. 1263. Ikgeedients.—1 pint of bread crumbs, 6 oz. of finely-chopped suet, I lb. of currants, a few thin slices of candied peel, 3 oz. of sugar, I nutmeg, 3 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of brandy. , Mode.—Put the bread crumbs into a basin; add the suet, currants,; candied peel, sugar, and nutmeg, grated, and stir these ingredients, until they are thoroughly mixed. Beat up the eggs, moisten the pud- ding with these, and put in the brandy; beat well for a few minutes,