743 CREA?.iS, Ji i.Lirs, o:^rLr.r.Ts, etc. BASPBEBBY CBEAM. 1475. Ingeedients.—J pint of milk, % pint of cream, U oz. of isinglass, raspberry jelly, sugar to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 3Iode.—lioil the milk, cream, and isinglass together for i hour, or until the latter is melted, and strain it through a hair sieve into a basin. Let it cool a little ; then add to it sufficient raspberry jelly, wbich, when melted, would make ^ pint, and stir well till the ingredients are tho- roughly mixed. If not sufficiently sweet, add a little pounded sugar witli the brandy; whisk the mixture well until nearly cold, put it into a well- oiled mould, and set it in a cool place till perfectly set. Baspberry jam may be substituted for the jelly, but must bo melted^ and rubbed through a sieve, to free it from seeds: in summer, the juice of the fresh fruit may be used, by slightly mashing it with a wooden spoon, and sprinkling sugar over it; the juice that flov>'s from the frait should then be used for mixing with the cream. If the colour should not be very good, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added to improve its appearance. {See coloured plate T 1.) Time.—I liour to boil the cream and isinglass. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, and the best isinglass, 3s. SuffLcient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable, with jelly, at any time. IVote.—Stra'.vberry cream may bo made in precisely the same maimer, sub- stituting strav/beriy jam or jelly for the ras^jbcrry. SPBDKET-CREAM KOXTLD. f BICE BLA3SrCMAK"GE. 1476. I^-G^cEDIE^^TS.—J lb. of ground rice, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 1 oz. of frcsli butter, 1 quart of milk, flavouring of lemon-peel, essence of almonds or vanilla, or laurel-leaves. Mode.—Mix the rice to a smooth batter with about h. pint of the milk, and the remainder put into a saucepan, with the sugar, butter, and v. hichever of the above flavourings may be preferred ; bring the milk to the boiling-point, quickly stir in the rice, and let it boil for abctit 10 pjinutes, or until it comes easily away from the saucepan, keeping it well stirred the whole time. Grease a mould with pure salad-oil; pour in the rice, and let it get perfectly set, when it should turn out quite easily; garnish it with jam, or pour round a compote of