693 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. Mode—Make a vol-aii-vent case by recipe 'No. 1379, only not quite so large nor so high as for a savoury one. When nearly done, brush the paste over with the white of an egg, then sprinkle on it some pounded sugar, and put it back in the oven to set the glaze, llemovo the interior, or soft crumb, and, at the moment of serving, fill it with the strawberries, which should be picked, and broken up with sufficient sugar to sweeten them nicely. Place a few spoonfuls of whipped cream on the top, and serve. Time.—I hour to 40 minutes to bake the voUaii-vent, Average costy 2s. 2d, Sufficient for 1 vol-au-vent. Seasonable in June and July. Strawbebkt.—Among the Greeks, the name of the strawberry indicated its tenuity, this fruit forming hardly a mouthful. With the Latins, the name reminded one of tho delicious perfume of this plant. Both nations were equally fond of it, and applied the same care to its cultivation. Virgil appears to place it in the same rank with flowers ; and Ovid gives it a tender epithet, which delicate palates would not disavow. Neither does this luxurious poet forget the wild strawberry, which disappears beneath its modest foliage, but whose presence the scented air reveals. WEST-HsTDIAlSr PUDDmG. 1382, Ingrediei^ts.—1 pint of cream, i lb. of loaf-sugar, | lb. of Savoy or sponge-cakes, 8 eggs, 3 oz. of preserved green ginger. 3fode.—Crumble down the cakes, put them into a basin, and pour over them the cream, which should be previously sweetened and brought to the boiling-point; cover the basin, well beat the eggs, and when the cream is soaked up, stir them in. Butter a mould, arrange the ginger round it, pour in the pudding carefully, and tie it down with a cloth ; steam or boil it slowly for 1^ hour, and serve with the syrup from the ginger, which should be warmed, and poured over the pudding. I'iine.—li- hour. Average cost^ with cream at Is. per pint, 25. 8c7. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. YEAST DUMPLINGS. 1383. Ingeedients.—^ quartern of dough, boiling water. 3Iode,—Make a very light dough as for bread, using to mix it, milk, instead of water; divide ib into 7 or 8 dumplings; plunge them into boiling water, and boil them for 20 minutes. Serve the instant they are taken up, as they spoil directly, by falling and becoming heavy; and in eating them do not touch them with a knife, but tear them apart with two forks. They may be eaten with meat gravy, or cold butter and sugar, and if not convenient to make the dough at home, a little from the baker's answers as well, only it must bo