670 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. of an egg beaten to a stiff froth witli a knife; sprinkle over a little sifted sugar, and put the pie in the oven to set the glaze. Ttme.—h to f hour. Average cost. Is, Sufficie7it for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable, with various kinds of plums, from the beginning of August to the beginning of October. POTATO PASTY. 1332. Ingeedients.—l^lb. of rump-steak or mutton cutlets, pepper and salt to taste, J pint of weak broth or gravy, 1 oz. of butter, mashed potatoes. Jfoc/e.—Place the meat, cut in small pieces, at the bottom of the pan; season it with pepper and salt, and add the gravy and butter broken into small pieces. Put on the perforated plate, with its valve-pipe screwed on, and fill up the whole space to the top of the tube with nicely- mashed potatoes mixed with a little milk, and finish the surface of them in any ornamental manner. If carefully baked, the potatoes will be covered with a delicate brown crust, retaining all the savoury steam rising from the meat. Send it to table as it comes from the oven, with a napkin folded round it. Time.—40 to 60 minutes. Average cost, 2s. Su^icient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. POTATO PUDDING. 1333. IiSTGEEDiENTS.—4 lb. of mashcd potatoes, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, I pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry, i saltspoonful of salt, the juice and rind of 1 small lemon, 2 oz. of sugar. Mode.—Boil sufficient potatoes to make i lb. when mashed; add to these the butter, eggs, milk, sherry, lemon-juice, and sugar; mince the lemon-peel very finely, and beat all the ingredients well together. Put the pudding into a buttered -pie-dish, and bake for rather more than I hour. To enrich it, add a few pounded almonds, and increase the quantity of eggs and butter. Time.—^ hour, or rather longer. Ave7'age cost, 8d. Svfficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. TO ICE OB GliASB PASTKY. 1334. To glaze pastry, which is the usual method adopted for meat or raised pies, break an egg, separate the yolk from the white, and