VEGETABLES. 587 POTATOES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 1144. Ingeedients.—Potatoes, salt and water ; to every 6 potatoes allow 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode,—Wash the potatoes clean, and boil them in salt and water by recipe No. 1138 ; when they are done, drain them, let them cool; then peel and cut the potatoes into thick slices : if these are too thin, they would break in the sauce. Put the butter into a stewpan with the pepper, salt, gravy, and parsley; mix these ingredients well toge- ther, put in the potatoes, shake them two or three times, that they may be well covered with the sauce, and, when quite hot through, squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve. Time.—J to 2 hour to boil the potatoes ; 10 minutes for them to heat in the sauce. Average cost, is. per bushel. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable all the year. MASHED POTATOES. 1145. Ingeedients.—Potatoes; to every lb. of mashed potatoes allow 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, salt to taste. Mode.—Boil the potatoes in their skins ; when done, drain them, and let them get thoroughly dry by the side of the fire ; then peel them, and, as they are peeled, put them into a clean saucepan, and with a large fork beat them to a light paste; add butter, milk, and salt in the above proportion, and stir all the ingredients well over the fire. When thoroughly hot, dish them lightly, and draw the fork backwards over the potatoes to make the surface rough, and serve. When dressed in this manner, they may be browned at the top with a salamander, or before the fire. Some cooks press the potatoes into moulds, then turn them out, and brown them in the oven: this is a pretty mode of serving, but it makes them heavy. In whatever way they are sent to table, care must be taken to have them quite free from lumps. Time.—From i to f hour to boil the potatoes. Average cost, 4s. per bushel. Sufficient,—1 lb. of mashed potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. PUBEm DS POMMSIS DE TSBSS, or. Very TMn-mashed Potatoes. 1146. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of mashed potatoes allow i pint of good broth or stock, 2 oz. of butter.