102 MODERN nOUSEHOLD COOKEllT. stock to it, vAtli tlie crumb of the rolls ; give it one boil, and rub it through a tammy, with the lobster-spawn. Put y^u "^in the fish, but do not let the soup boil, after it ' ' ' has been rubbed through the tammy. If neces- sary, add seasoning. Time.—\\ hour. Average cost, 2s. 3d. or Is. 9d. per quart. Seasonable from January to July. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Ceatfish.—This is one of those fishes that were CRAYFISH. highly esteemed by the ancients. The Greeks preferred it when brought from Alexandria, and the Romans ate it boiled with enmin, and seasoned with pepper and other condiments. A recipe tells us, thafc crayfish can be preserved several days in baskets with fresh grass, such as the nettle, or in a bucket with about three-eighths of an inch of water. More water wox^ld kill them, because the large quantity of air they require necessitates the water in which they are kej^t, to be continually renewed. EEIi SOUP. 194. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of eels, 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, 3 blades of mace, 1 biinch of sweet herbs, i oz. of peppercorns, salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, i pint of cream, 2 quarts of water. 3fode.—Wash, the eels, cut them into thin slices, and put them in the stewpan with the butter ; let them simmer for a few minutes, then pour the water to them, and add the onion, cut in thin slices, the herbs, mace, and seasoning. Simmer till the eels are tender, but do not break the fish. Take them out carefully, mix the flour smoothly to a batter with the cream, bring it to a boil, pour over the eels, and serve. Time.—1 hour, or rather more. Average costf IQd. per quart. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup may be flavoured difFerently by omitting the cream, and adding a little ketchup or Harvey's sauce. LOBSTBB SOUP. 195. Ingeedients.—3 large lobsters, or 6 small ones; the crumb of a French roll, 2 anchovies, 1 onion, 1 small bunch of sweet herbs, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 2 oz. of butter, a little nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 pint of cream, 1 pint of milk; forcemeat balls, mace, salt and pepper to taste, bread crumbs, 1 egg, 2 quarts of water. Mode,—Pick the meat from the lobsters, and beat the fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar, previously taking away the brown fin and the bag in the head. Put it in a stewpan, with the crumb of the