753 MODERN nOUSEHOLD COOKERY, them every time they are turned. Afterwards, they are to be kept in a dry ^ situation, in drawers or boxes. Currants and cherries preserved whole in this manner, in bunches, are extremely elegant, and haA^e a fine flavour. In this way it is, also, that orange and lemon chips are preserved. 1502. Marmalades, jams, and fruit ]>astes are of the same nature, and arc now in very general request. They are prepared without difficulty, by at- tending to a very few directions ; they are somev/hat expensive, but may be kept without spoiling for a considerable time. Marmalades and jams differ little from each other : they are preserves of a half-liquid consistency, made by boihng the pulp of fruits, and sometimes part of the rinds, with sugar. The appellation of marmalade is applied to those confitures which are composed of the firmer fruits, as pineapples or the rinds of oranges ; whereas jams are made of the more juicy berries, such as strawberries, raspberries, currants, mulberries, &c. Fruit pastes are a kind of marmalades, consisting of the pulp of fruits, first evaporated to a proper consistency, and afterwards boiled with sugar. The mixture is then poured into a mould, or spread on sheets of tin, and subsequent^ dried in the oven or stove till it has acquired the state of a paste. From a sheet of this paste, strips may be cut and formed into any j shape that may be desired, as knots, rings, &c. Jams require the same care and attention in the boiling as marmalade; the slightest degree of burning communicates a disagreeable em.pyreumatic taste, and if they are not boiled sufficiently, they will not keep. That they may keep, it is necessary not to be sparing of sugar. 1503. In all the operations for preserve-making, when the preserving-pan is used, it should not be placed on the fire, but on a trivet, unless the jam is made on a hot p»late, when this is not necessary. If the pan is placed close on to the fire, the preserve is very liable to burn, and the colour and flavour be consequently spoiled, 1504. Fruit jellies are compounds of the juices of fruits combined with sugar, concentrated, by boiling, to such a consistency that tho liquid, upon cooling, assumes the form of a tremulous jelly. 1505. Before fruits are candied, they must first be boiled in syrup, after which they are taken out and dried on a stove, or before the fire; the syrup is then to be concentrated, or boiled to a candy height, and the fruit dipped in it, and again laid on the stove to dry and candy : they are then to be put into boxes, and kej)t dr}--. 1506. Conserves consist of fresh vegetable matters beat into a uniform mass with refined sugar, and they are intended to preserve the virtues and properties of recent flowers, leaves, roots, peels, or fruits, unaltered, and as near as possible to what they vrere when fresh gathered, and to give them an agree- able taste.