POULTRY. 501 THE GUINEA-PIG. frequently bred by rabbit-faneierg, by way of protection for their young stock agaiust those troublesome vermiu. The lower tier of a rabbit-hutch is esteemed excellent quarters by the guinea-pig: here, as he runs loose, he will devour the waste food of his more admired companion. 8ome naturalists assert that the guinea-pig will breed at two months old, the litter varying from four to twelve at a time. It is varied in colour,—white, fawn, and black, and a mixture of the three colours, form- ing a tortoiseshell, which is the more generally admired hue. Occasionally, the white ones have red eyes, like those of the ferret and the Avhite rabbit. Their llesh, although eatable, is decidedly unfit for food; they have been tasted, however, we presame by some enthusiast eager to advance the cause of science, or by some eccentric epicure in search of a new pleasure for his palate. Unless it has been that they deter rats from intruding within the rabbit- hutch, they are as usokss as they are harmless. The usual ornament of an animal's hind quarters is denied the.n; and were it not lor this lact, and also for their difference in colour, the Shaksperean locution, ** a rat without a tail," would designate them very properly. 998, The Cygnet.—The Cygnet, or the young Swan, was formerly much esteemed; but it has " fallen from its high estate," and is now rarely seen upon the table. We are not sure that it is not still fattened in Norwich for the corporation of that place. Persons who have property on the river there, take the young birds, and send them to some one who is employed by the cor- poration, to be fed ; and for this trouble he is paid, or was wont to be paid, about half a guinea a bird. It is as the future bird of elegance and grace that the young swan is mostly admired; when it has be- come old enough to grace the waters, then it is that all admire her, when she with " Arched neck, Between her white wings mantling, proudly rows Her state with oary feet." THE CYGNET. POULTEY CAEVING. BOAST DUCK. 999. 'No dishes require so much knowledge and skill in their oarving as do game and poultry; for it is necessary to be well acquainted with the anatomy of the bird and animal in order to place the knife at exactly the proper point. A tough fowl and an old goose are sad triers of a carver's powers and temper, and, indeed, sometimes of the good humour of those in the neighbourhood of the carver; for a sudden tilt of the BOAST DUCK.