DUTIES OF THE HOUSEMAID. 989 her tools. This housemaid's box should he kept well stcckcd. Having blackened, brushed, and polished every part, and made all clean and bright, she now proceeds to lay the firo. Sometimes it is very difficult to get a proper polish to black grates, particularly if they have been neglected, and allowed to rust at all. Brunsvv-ick black, which is an excellent varnish for grates, may be prepared in the following manner:— 2295. Ingredients.—1 lb. of common asphaltum, | pint ot linseed oil, 1 quart of oil of turpentine. Mode.—Melt the asphaltum, and add gradually to it the other two ingredients. Apply this with a small painter's brush, and leave it to become perfectly dry. The grate will need no other cleaning, but will merely require dusting every day, and occasionally brushing with a dry black-lead brush. This is, of com*se, when no fires are used. When they are required, the bars, cheeks, and back of the grate will need black-leading in the usual manner. 2296. Fire-lighting, however simple, is an operation reqnirinf^ some skill; a fire is readily made by laying a few cinders at the bottom in open order; over this a few pieces of paper, and over that again eight or ten pieces of dry wood; over the wood, a course of moderate-sized pieces of coal, taking care to leave hollow spaces between for air at the centre; and taking care to lay the whole well back in the grate, so that the smoke may go up the chimney, and not into the I'oom. This done, fire the paper with a match from below, and, if propei'ly laid, it will soon burn up; the stream of flame from the wood and paper soon communicating to the coals and cinders, provided there ia plenty of air at the centre. ^ 2297. A new method of lighting a fire is sometimes practised with advantage, the fire lighting from the top and burning down, in place of being lighted and burning up from below. This is arranged by laying the coals v.t the bottom, mixed with a few good-sized cinders, and the wood at the top, with another layer of coals and some paper over it; the paper is lighted in the usual way, and soon burns down to a good fire, with some economy of fuel, as is said. 2298. Bright grates require unceasing attention to keep them in perfect order. A day should never pass without the housemaid rubbing with a dry leather the polished parts of a grate, as also the fender and fire-irons. A careful and attentive housemaid should have no occasion ever to use emery- paper for any part but the bars, which, of course, become blackened by the fire. (Some mistresses, to save labour, have a double set of bars, one set bright for the summer, and another black set to use when fires are in requi- STOVE-BEUSHES, housemaid's box.