732 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. OPEN MOULD. 3Iode.~Pnt the water into a saucepan, with the isinglass, siigrar, and the rind of 1 orange, and the same of | lemon, and stir these over the fire until the isinglass is dissolved, and remove the scum; then add to this the juice of the Seville orange, the juice of the lemon, and sufficient juice of China oranges to make in all 1 pint: from 8 to 10 oranges will yield the de- sired quantity. Stir all together over the fire until it is just on the point of boiling; skim well; then strain the jelly through a very fine sieve or jelly-bag, and when nearly cold, put it into a mould previously wetted, and, when quite set, turn it out on a dish, and garnish it to taste. To insure this jelly being clear, the orange- and lemon-juice should be well strained, and the isinglass clarified, before they are added to the other ingredients, and, to heighten the colour, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added. Teme.—5 minutes to boil without the juice; 1 minute after it is added. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 3s. (Scl. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable from ^Jsovember to May. ORANGE JELLY MOULDED WITH SLICES OF OBANQE. 1455. I^^GIlEDIE^-TS.-—1-2- pint of orange jelly ^0. 1454, 4 oranges, •I pint of clarified syrup. 3Iocle.—Boil i lb. of loaf sugar with i pint of water until there is no scum left (which must be carefully removed as fast as it rises), and carefully peel the oranges ; divide them into thin slices, without breaking the thin skin, and put these pieces of orange into the syrup, v/here let them remain for about 5 minutes ; then take them out, and use the syrup for the jelly, which should be made by recipe No. 1454. When the oranges are well drained, and the jelly is nearly cold, pour a little of the latter into the bottom of the mould ; then lay in a few pieces of orange ; over these pour a little jelly, and when this is set, place another layer of oranges, proceeding in this manner until the mould is full. Put it in ice, or in a cool place, and, before turning it out, wrap a cloth round the mould for a minute or two, which has been wrung out in boiling water. Tiyne.—5 minutes to simmer the oranges. Average cost, oS. 6d, Sufficient, with the slices of orange, to fill a quart mould. Seasonahh from Xovember to May.