721 CKEAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. Mode.—Cat the tops and tails off the gooseherries; put them into a jar, with 2 tablespoonfuls of water and a little good moist sugar; set this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil until the fruit is soft enough to mash. "When done enough, beat it to a pulp, work this pulp through a colander, and stir to every pint the above pro- portion of milk, or equal quantities of milk and cream. Ascertain if the mixture is sweet enough, and put in plenty of sugar, or it will not be eatable; and in mixing the milk and gooseberries, add the former very gradually to these: serve in a glass dish, or in small glasses. This, although a very old-fashioned and homely dish, is, when well made, very delicious, and, if properly sweetened, a very suitable preparation for children. 2i7ne.—From | to 1 hour. Average cost, Q>d, per pint, with milk. Sufficient.—A pint of milk and a pint of gooseberry pulp for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable in May and June. GOOSEBEBBY TBIFLE. 1434. Ingeedients.—1 quart of gooseberries, sugar to taste, 1 pint of custard No. 1423, a plateful of whipped cream. Mode.—Put the gooseberries into a jar, with sufficient moist sugar to sweeten them, and boil them until reduced to a pulp. Put this pulp at the bottom of a trifle-dish ; pour over it a pint of custard made by recipe No. 1423, and, when cold, cover with whipped cream. The cream should be whipped the day before it is wanted for table, as it will then be so much firmer and more solid. The dish may be gar- nished as fancy dictates. Time.—About I hour to boil the gooseberries. Average cost^ Is. 6d. Sii-fficient for 1 trifle. Seasonable in May and June. INDIAN FBITTEBS. 1435. Ingredients.—3 tablespoonfuls of flour, boiling water, the yolks of 4 eggs, the whites of 2, hot lard or clarified dripping, jam. Mode.—?\xi the flour into a basin, and pour over it sufficient boiling water to make it into a stiff paste, taking care to stir and beat it well, to prevent it getting lumpy. Leave it a little time to cool, and then break into it {ivithout beating them at first) the j^olks of 4 eggs and the wliites of 2, and stir and beat all well together. Have ready some boiling lard or butter; drop a dessertspoonful of batter in at a time, and fry the fritters of a light brown. They should rise so much as to be almost like balls. Serve on a dish, with a spoonful of preserve