REARING, ETC., OP CniLDREN. 1055 the upper part of the chest, followed by a small blister ; or the blister may be substituted for the leeches, the attendant bearing in mind, that the benefit effected by the blister can always be considerably augmented by plunging the feet into very hot water about a couple of hours after applying the blister, and kept in the water for about two minutes. And let it further be remembered, that this immersion of the feet in hot water may be adopted at any time or stage of the disease : and that, whenever the head or Iwigs are oppressed, relief will always accrue from its sudden and brief employment. When the symptoms commence with much shivering, and the skin early assumes a hot, dry character, the appearance of the rash will be facilitated, and all the other symptoms rendered milder, if the patient is put into a warm bath, and kept in the water for about three minutes. Or, v/here that is not con- venient, the following process, which will answer quite as well, can be substi- tuted :—Stand the child, naked, in a tub, and, having first prepared several jugs of sufficiently warm water, empty them, in quick succession, over the patient's shoulders and body; immediately wrap in a hot blanket, and put the child to bed till it rouses from the sleep that always follows the efFusicn or bath. This agent, by lowering the temperature of the skin, and opening the pores, producing a natural perspiration, and unloading the congested state of the lungs, in most cases does away entirely with the necessity both for leeches and a blister. Whether any of these external means have been employed or not, the first internal remedies should commence with a series of aperient powders and a saline mixture, as prescribed in the following formrdaries ; at the same time, as a beverage to quench the thirst, let a quantity of barley- water be made, slightly acidulated by the juice of an orange, and partially sweetened by some sugar-candy; and of which, when properly made and cold, let the patient drink as often as thirst, or the dryness of the mouth, renders necessary. 2553. A'pevient Powders.—Take of scammony and jalap, each 24 grains ; grey powder and powdered antimony, each 18 grains. Mix and divide into 12 powders, if for a child between two and four years of age ; into 8 powders, if for a child between four and eight years of age; and into 6 powders for between eight and twelve years. One powder to be given, in a little jelly or sugar-and-water, every three or four hours, according to the severity of the symptoms. 2554. Saline Mixture.—Take of mint-water, 6 ounces; powdered nitre, 20 grains ; antimonial wine, 3 drachms ; spirits of nitre, 2 drachms ; syrup of saffron, 2 drachms. Mix. To children under three years, give a teaspoonful every two hours ; from that age to six, a dessertspoonful at the same times; and a tablespoonful every three or four hours to children between six and twelve. 2555. The object of these aperient powders is to keep up a steady but gentle action on the bowels; but, whenever it seems necessary to administer a stronger dose, and effect a brisk action on the digestive organs,—a course