336 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. CUBIIIEB MUTTO]^ (Cold Meat Cooliery). 713. Ikghedients.—The remains of any joint of cold mutton, 2 onions, J lb. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder, 1 dessert- spoonful of flour, salt to taste, 4 pint of stock or water. Mode.—Slice the onions in thin rings, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, and fry of a light brown ; stir in the curry powder, iiour, and salt, and mix all v^^ell together. Cut the meat into nice thin slices (if there is not sufficient to do this, it maybe minced), and add it to the other ingredients ; when well browned, add the stock or gravy, and stew gently for about k hour. Serve in a dish with a border of boiled rice, the same as for other curries. Tt?ne.—I hour. Average costy exclusive of the meat, Qd. ScasonaUe in winter. CUTLETS OF COLD MUTTOU (Cold Meat Cookery). 714. Ingredients.—The remains of cold loin or neck of mutton, 1 egg, bread crumbs, brown gravy (i^o. 436), or tomato sauce (No. 529). Mode.—Oxii the remains of cold loin or neck of mutton into cutlets, trim them, and take away a portion of the fat, should there be too much ; dip them in beaten egg, and sprinkle with bread crumbs, and fry them a nice brown in hot dripping. Arrange them on a dish, and pour round them either a good gravy or hot tomato sauce. Time.—About 7 minutes. Seasoyiahle.—HomdiioQ^ to be had most reasonably in September and October. DOBMEBS. 715. Ing redients.—2- lb. of cold mutton, 2 oz. of beef suet, pepper and salt to taste, 3 oz. of boiled rice, 1 egg, bread crumbs, made gravy. 3fode.—Chop the meat, suet, and rice finely ; mix well together, and add a high seasoning of pepper and salt, and roll into sausages; cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot dripping of a nice brown. Serve in a dish with made gravy poured round them, and a little in a tureen. Time.—I hour to fry the sausages. Average cos^,.exclusive of the meat, 6c?. Seasonable at any time. The Goldek Fleece.—The ancient fable of the Golden Fleece may be thus briefly told :—Phryxus, a son of Athamus, Idng of Thebes, to escape the persecutions of his stepmother Ino, paid a visit to his friend ^etes, king of Colchis. A ram, whose fleece was of pure gold, carried the youth through the air in a most obliging manner to the