297 BEEP. flour in the aoove proportions. Add the vinegar, ketcliup, and port wine; put in the pieces of cheek; let the v/hole boil up, and serve quite hot. Send it to table in a ragout-dish. If the colour of the gravy should not be very good, add a tablespoonful of the browning, IJo. 108. Time.—4: hours. Average cost, Zd. per lb. Surfficient for 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. PBIED OX-FEET, or COVZ-HESIi. 639. iK-GREDiENTS.—Ox-fcot, the yolk of 1 egg, bread crumbs, parsley, salt and cayenne to taste, boiling butter. JibJe.—Wash, scald, and thoroughly clean the feet, and cut them into pieces about 2 inches long; have ready some line bread crumbs- mixed with a little minced parsle}^ cayenne, and salt; dip the pieces of heel into the yolk of egg, sprinkle them with the bread crumbs, and fry them until of a nice brown in boiling butter. Time,—\ hour. Average cost, 6d. each. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Ox-feet may be dressed in various ways, stevrod in gravy or plainly boiled and served with melted butter. ^Yllen plainly boiled, the liquor v/iil answer for making sweet or relishing jellies, and also to give richness to soups or gravies. STEWED OX-TAILS. 640. Ingredients.—2 ox-tails, 1 onion, 3 cloves, 1 blade of mace, i tcaspoonful of whole black pepper, I teaspoonful of allspice, i a tea- spoonful of salt, a small bunch of savoury herbs, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. 3Iode.—Divide the tails at the joints, wash, and put them into a stewpan with safficient water to cover them, and set them on the Are; when the water boils, remove the scum, and add the onion cut into rings, the spice, seasoning, and herbs. Cover the stevvpan closely, and let the tails simmer very gently until tender, which will be in aboufc 2J hours. Take them out, make a thickening of batter and flour, add it to the gravy, and let it boil for J hour. Strain it through a sieve into a saucepan, put back the tails, add the lemon-juice and ketchup ;. let the whole just boil up, and serve. Garnish Vvdth croutons or sippets of toasted bread. Time.—2^ hours to stew the tails. \ Average cost, 9d. to Is. 6d, according to the season. Si{fficient for 8 persons. SeasonaUe all the year. •