MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 170 lay them in a baking-dish. Mince the herbs very fine, strew them over the fish, and place small pieces of bntter over; cover v/ith another dish, and let them simmer in a Dutch oven for | hour or 20 minutes. Turn the fish once or twice, and serve with the sauce poured over. Time.—\ hour or 20 minutes. Average cost, id. each. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March, Sufficient, 1 small whiting for each person. The Whiting Pout, and PolI.ick.—About the moutli of the Thames, and {gene- rally all round the English coasts, as well as in the northern seas, the pout is plentiful. It bears a strilcing resemblance to the whiting, and is esteemed as an excellent fish.— The pollacTc is also taken all round our coasts, and likewise bears a striking resemblance to the whiting; indeed, it is sometimes mistaken by the inexperienced for that fish; its flesh being considered by many equally delicate. TO DUEBS WHITEBAIT. 348. I]s-GiiEDiENTS.—A little flour, hot lard, seasoning of salt. 3fode.—This fish should be put into iced water as soon as bought, unless they are cooked immediately. Drain them from the water in a colander, and have ready a nice clean dry cloth, over which put 2 good handfuls of flour. Toss in the whitebait, shake them lightly in the cloth, and put them in a wicker sieve to take avray the superfluous flour. Throw them into a pan of boiling lard, very few at a time, and let them fry till of a whitey-brown colour. Directly they are done, they must be taken out, and laid before the fire for a minute or two on a sieve reversed, covered with blotting-paper to absorb the fat. Dish them on a hot napkin, arrange the fish very high in the centre, and sprinkle a little salt over the whole. Time.—3 minutes. Seasonahle from April to August. Whitebait. — This highly-esteemed little fish appears in innumerr.ble'multitudes in the river Thames, near Greenwich and Blaekwall, during the month of July, when it forms, served with Jemon and brown bread and butter, a tempting dish to vast numbers of Londoners, "WHITEBAIT. >^ho flock to the various taverns of these places, in order to gratify their appetites. The fish has been supposed be the fry of the shad, the sprat, the smelt, or the bleak. Mr. Yarrell, however, maintains that it is a species in itself, distinct from every other fish. When fried with flour, it is esteemed a great delicacy. The ministers of the Crown have had a custom, for many years, of having a "whitebait dinner" just before the close of the session. It is invariably the precursor of the prorogation of Parliament, and the repast is provided by the jjroprietor of the *' Trafalgar," Greenwich. FISH PIE, WITH TEJSrCH AISTD EELS. 349. Ingredients.—2 tench, 2 eels, 2 onions, a faggot of herhs, 4 blades of mace, 3 anchovies, 1 pint of water, pepper and salt to taste,