SAUCES, ETC. 195 will curdle. Serve the sauce in a tureen, stir in the brandy, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. This sauce may be made very mueli nicer by using cream instead of milk; but the aboye recipe will b6 found quite good enough for ordinary purposes. Average cost, 6d. per pint. Sufficient^ this quantity, for 2 fruit tarts, or 1 pudding. BUTCH SAUCE FOR PISH. ^J05. In"geedients.—J teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 4 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, the yolks of 2 eggs, the juice of i lemon; salt to taste. Mode.—Put all the ingredients, except the lemon-juice, into a stew- pan ; set it over the fire, and keep continually stirring. "When it is sufficiently thick, take it ofi', as it should not boil. If, however, it happens to curdle, strain the sauce through a tammy, add the lemon- juice, and serve. Tarragon vinegar may be used instead of plain, and, by many, is considered far preferable. Average cost, 6d. Note. — This sauce may be poured hot over salad, and left to get quite cold, when it should be tliick, smooth, and somewhat stiff. Excel- lent salads may be made of hard eggs, or the remains of salt fish flaked nicely from the bone, by pouring over a little of the above mixture when hot, and allowing it to cool. The Lemoit.—This fruit is a native of Asia, and is mentioned by Virgil as an antidote to poison. It is hardier than the orange, and, as one of the citron tribe, was brought into Europe by the Arabians. The lemon was first cultivated in England in the beginning of the 17th century, and is novi^ often to be found in our green- houses. The kind commonly sold, however, is imported from Portugal, Spain, and the Azores. Some also come from St. Helena; but those from Spain are esteemed the best. Its juice is now an essential for culinary purposes ; but as an antiscorbutic its value is still greater. This juice, which TnE LE^iOir. is called citric acid, may be preserved in bottles for a con- siderable tune, by covering it vvitii a thin stratum of oil. Shruh is made from it with rum and sugar, GBSEIT DUTCH SAUCE, or HOLLAISTDAISE VEETE. 406. Ingbedients.—6 tablespoonfuls of Bechamel, No. 367, season- ing to taste of salt and cayenne, a little parsley-green to colour, the juice of J a lemon. Mode.~2\xi the Bechamel into a saucepan with the seasoning, and bring it to a boil. Make a green colouring by pounding some parsley in a mortar, and squeezmg all the juice from it. Let this just simmer, o 2