MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE, AND EGGS. m 1622. The principal varieties of cheese used in England are the following : — Cheshire cheese, famed all over Europe for its rich quality and fine piquant flavour. It is made of entire new milk, the cream not being taken off. Gloucester cheese is much milder in its taste than the Cheshire. There are two kinds of Glou- cCvSter cheese,—single and double, Single Gloucester is made of skimmed milk, or of the milk deprived of half the cream ; Double Gloucester is a cheese that pleases almost every palate : it is made of the whole milk and cream. Stilton cheese is made by adding the cream of one day to the enth-e milk of the next: it was first made at Stilton, in Leicestershire. Sage cheese is so called from the practice of colouring some curd with bruised sage, marigold-leaves, and parsley, and mixing this with some uncoloured curd. With the Romans, and during the middle ages, this practice was extensively adopted. Cheddar cheese much resembles Parmesan. It has a very agreeable taste and flavour, and has a spongy appearance. BricJcbat cheese has nothing remarkable except its form. It is made by turning with rennet a mixture of cream and new milk. The curd is put into a wooden vessel the shape of a brick, and is then pressed and dried in the usual way. Dunlop cheese has a peculiarly mild and rich taste : the best is made entirely from new milk. Neio cheese (as it is called in London) is made chiefly in Lincolnshire, and is either made of all cream, or, like Stilton, by adding the cream of one day's milking to the milk that comes immediately from the cow : they are extremely thin, and are compressed gently two or three times, turned for a few days, and then eaten new with radishes, salad, &c. Skimmed Milk cheese is made for sea voyages principally. Parmesan cheese is made in Parma and Piacenza. It is the most celebrated of all cheese : it is made entirely of skimmed cow's milk. The high flavour which it has, is sup- posed to be owing to.the rich herbage of the meadows of the Po, where the eows are pastured. The best Parmesan is kept for three or four years, and none is carried to market till it is at least six months old. Butch cheese derives its peculiar pungent taste from the practice adopted in Holland of coagulating the milk with muriatic acid instead of rennet. Swiss cheeses in their several varieties are all remarkable for their fine flavour. That from Gruyere, a baili- wick in the canton of Fribourg, is best known in England. It is flavoured by the dried herb of Melilotos officinalis in powder. Cheese from milk and potatoes IS manufactured in Thuringia and Saxony. Cream cheese, although so callcrl, is not properly cheese, but is nothing more than cream dried sufficiently to ba ■cut with a knife. EGGS. 1623. There is only one opinion as to the nutritive properties of eggs, al- though the qualities of those belonging to diflferent birds vary somewhat. Those of the common hen are most esteemed as delicate food, particularly when *• new-laid." The quality of eggs depends much upon the food given to the hen. Eggs in general are considered most easily digestible when little subjected ta