BREAD, BISCUITS, AKD CAKES. 837 1708. Less butter and eggs are required for cakes when yeast is mixed with, the other ingredients. 1709. The heat of the oven is of gi-eat importance, especially for largo cakes. If the heat be not tolerably fierce, the batter will not rise. If the oven is too quick, and there is any danger of the cake burning or catching, put a sheet of clean paper over the top. Newspaper, or paper that has been printed on, should never be used for this purpose. 1710. To know when a cake is sufficiently baked, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it; draw it quickly out, and if it looks in the least sticky, put the cake back, and close the oven door until the cake is done. 1711. Cakes should be kept in closed tin canisters or jars, and in a dry place. Those made with yeast do not keep so long as those made without it. BISCUITS. 1712. Since the establishment of the large modern biscuit manufactories, biscuits have been j)roduced both cheap and wholesome, in, comparatively speaking, endless variety. Their actual component parts are, perhaps, known only to the various makers; but there are several kinds of biscuits which have long been in use, that may here be advantageously described. 1713. Biscuits belong tD the class of unfermented bread, and are, perhaps, the most wholesome of that class. In cases where fermented bread does not agree with the human stomach, they may be recommended: in many instances they are considered lighter, and less liable to create acidity and flatulence. The name is derived from the French his cuit, ^' twice-baked," because, originally, that was the mode of entirely depriving them of all moisture, to insure their lieeping; but, although that process is no longer employed, the name is ret ained. The use of this kind of bread on land is pretty general, and some varieties are luxuries ; but, at sea, biscuits are articles of the first necessity. 1714. Sea, or Ship Biscuits, are made of wheat-flour from which only tho coarsest bran has been sei)arated. The dough is made up as stiff as it can be worked, and is then formed into shapes, and baked in an oven ; after which, the biscuits are exposed in lofts over the oven until perfectly dry, to prevent them from becoming mouldy when stored. 1715. Captains' Biscuits are made in a similar manner, only of fino flour.