POULTRY, 453 Average cost, exclusive of the cold duck, Is. STEWED DUCK AND TUBNIPS (Cold Meat Cookery). 937. Ingiiedients.—The remains of cold roast duck, i pint of deadly leaden shower amongst them. In the winter, when the water is covered with rubble ice, the fowler of the Delaware paints his canoe entirely white, lies flat in the bottom of it, and floats with the broken ice; from which the aquatic inhabitants fail to distinguish it. So floats the canoe till he within it understands, by the quacking, and fluttering, and whirring of wings, that he is in the midst of a flock, when he is up in a moment with the murderous piece, and dying quacks and lamentations rend the still air. Bow-bill Ducks, &c.—Every one knows how aAvkward are the Anatidcc, waddling along on their unelastic webbed toes, and their short legs, which, being placed consi- derably backward, make the fore part of the body preponderate. Some, how- ever, are formed more adapted to terres- trial habits than others, and notably amongst these may be named Devdro' nessa sponsa, the summer duck of Ame- rica. This beautiful bird rears her young in the holes of trees, generally overhang- ing the water. When strong enough, the young scramble to the mouth of the hole, launch into the air with their little wings and feet spread out, and drop into their favourite element. Whenever their birthplace is at some distance from the water, the mother carries them to it, one by one, in her bill, holding them so as not to injure their yet tender frame. On several occasions, however, Avhen the hole was 30, 40, or more yards from a piece of water, Audubon observed that the mother suffered the young to fall on the grass and dried leaves beneath the tree, and afterwards led them directly to the nearest edge of the next pool or creek. There are some curious varieties of the domestic duck, which only appear interesting from their singularity, for there does not seem to be anything of use or value in the unusual characteristics which distinguish them; thus, the bow-bill duck, as shown in the engraving, called by some writers the hook-bill, is remarkable for the peculiarly strange distortion of its beak, and the tuft on the top of its head. The penguin duck, again, waddles in an upright position, like the penguin, on account of the unnatural situation of its legs. These odd peculiarities add nothing of value to the various breeds, and may be set down as only the result of accidental mal- formation, transmitted from generation to generation. good gravy, 4 shalots, a few slices of carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 lb. of turnips, weighed after being peeled, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. diode.—Cut up the duck into joints, fry the shalots, carrots, and herbs, and put them, with the duck, into the gravy ; add the pounded mace, and stew gently for 20 minutes or h hour. Cut about 1 lb. of turnips, weighed after being peeled, into ^-inch squares, put the butter into a stewpan, and stew them till quite tender, which will be in about | hour, or rather more; season with pepper and salt, and serve in the centre of the dish, with the duck, &c. laid round. Thne.—Eather more than | hour to stew the turnips. Seasonable from November to February. The Wild Duck.—In many parts of England the wild duck is to be found, especially in those desolate fenny parts where water abounds. In Lincolnshire they are plentiful, and are annually taken in the decoys, which consist of ponds situate in the marshes, and BOW-BILL DUCKS.