MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. salt and a larger quantity of other matters more adapted to retain mellowness in meat,, may be employed, which could not be adopted by the curer of the immense quantities of meat required to be preserved for victualling the ship- ping of this maritime country. Sugar, which is well known to possess the jDreserving principle in a very great degree, without the pungency and astrin- gency of salt, may be, and is, very generally used in the preserving of meat for family consumption. Although it acts without corrugating or contracting the fibres of meat, as is the case in the action of salt, and, therefore, does not impair its mellowness, yet its use in sufficient quantities for preservative efiect, without the addition of other antiseptics, would impart a flavour not agreeable to the taste of many persons. It may be used, however, together ■with salt, with the greatest advantage in imparting mildness and mellovmess to cured meat, in a proportion of about one part by weight to four of the mixture; and, perhaps, now that sugar is so much lower in price than it was in former years, one of the obstructions to its more frequent use is removed, TO DBESS BEEF KIDITSY. I. 632. Ingkedients.—1 kidney, clarified butter, pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of highly-seasoned gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, ^ teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Mode,—Cut the kidneys into neat slices, put them into warm water to soak for 2 hours, and change the water 2 or 3 times; then put them on a clean cloth to dry the water from them, and lay them in a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them of a nice brown ; season each side with pepper and salt, put them round the dish, and the gravy in the middle. Before pouring the gravy in the dish, add the lemon-juice and sugar. Time.~¥rom 5 to 10 minutes. Average cost, 9d. each. Seasonable at any time. II. 633. Ikgeedients.—1 kidney, 1 dessertspoonful of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced shalot, salt and pepper to taste, | pint of gravy, No. 438, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry. Mode.—Toke off a little of the kidney fat, mince it very fine, and put it in a frying-pan; slice the kidney, sprinkle over it parsley and shalots in the above proportion, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and fry it of a nice brown. When it is done enough, dredge over a little flour, and pour in the gravy and sherry. Let it just simmer, but not boil any more, or tlie kidney would harden ; serve very hot, and garnish with croutons. "Where the flavour of the shalot is disliked, it may be omitted, and a small quantity of savoury herbs substituted . for it.