FISH. 133 inside, and cleanse thoroughly; wipe them dry, flour and clip them into egg", and sprinkle over with bread crumbs. Fry of a nice brown. Time.—3 or 4 minutes. Average cost. Seldom bought. Seasonable from March to July. Sufficient^ 3 for each person. The GupGEON.—This is a fresh-water fish, belonging to the carp genus, and is found in placid streams and lakes. It was highly es- teemed by the Greeks, and was, at the beginning of supper, served fried at Rome. It abounds the gudgeoh". both in France and Germany; and is both excellent and numerous in some of the rivers of England. Its flesh is firm, well- flavoured, and easily digested. GUBNET, or GUBNABD. 262. Ingeedients.—1 gurnet, 6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Clemse the fish thoroughly, and cut off the fins; have ready some boiling water, with salt in the above proportion; put the fish in, and simmer very gently for ^ hour. Parsley and butter, or anchovy sauce, should be served with it. Tiine.—^hovLT, Average cost. Seldom bought. Seasonable from October to March, but in perfection in October. Sufficient) a middling sized one for 2 persons. Note. — This fish is frequently stuffed with forcemeat and baked. The Gtjbitet.—"If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a souced gurnet," says FalstalT; the gue?^et, which shows that this fish has been long known in England. It is very common on the British coasts, and is an escelleut fish as food. BAKED HADDOCKS. 263. Ingredients.—A nice forcemeat {see Forcemeats), butter to taste, egg and bread crumbs. 3Iode.—Scale and clean the fish, without cutting it open much ; put in a nice delicate forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Brush it over with egg, sprinkle over bread crumbs, and baste frequently with butter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon, and serve with a nice brown gravy, plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. The egg and bread crumbs can be omitted, and pieces of butter placed over the fish. Large haddock, f hour; moderate size, i hour. Seasonable from August to February, Average cost, from 9d. upwards.