THE MISTRESS. 3 scandal and ridicule of her neighbours, should be avoided as a pestilence. It is likewise all-necessary to beware, as Thomson sings, ''The whisper'd tale, That, like the fabling Nile, no fountain knows ,*— Fair-faced Deceit, whose wily, conscious eye Ne'er looks direct; the tongue that licks the lust But, when it safely dares, as prompt to sting.'* If the duties of a family do not sufficiently occupy the time of a mistress, society should be formed of such a kind as will tend to the nititiial interchange of general and interesting information. 7. Friendships should not be hastily formed, nor the heart given, at once, to every new-comer. There are ladies who uniformly smile at, and approve everything and everybody, and who possess neither the courage to repi-ehend vice, nor the generous warmth to defend virtue. The triendship of such persons is without attachment, and their love without affection or even preference. They imagine that every one who has any penetration is ill-natured, and look coldly on a discriminating judgment. It should be remembered, however, that this discernment does not always proceed from an uncharitable temper, but that those who possess a long experience and thorough knowledge of the world, scrutinize the conduct and dispositions ot people before they trust themselves to the tirst fair appearances. Addison, who was not deficient in a knowledge of mankind, observes that " a friend- ship, whiGh makes the least noise, is very often the most useful; for which reason, I should prefer a prudent triend to a zealous one." And Joanna Baillie telis us that Friendship is no plant of hasty growth. Though planted m esteem's deep-fix^d''soil. The gradual culture of kind intercourse Must brmg it co pertection." 8. Hospitality is a most Excellent Virtue ; but care must be taken that tne love of eompanj'-, for its own sake, does not become a prevailing passion; for then the habit is no longer hospitality, but dissipation. Keaiity and truthfulness in this, as in all other duties of life, are the points to be studied; for, as Washington Irving well says, ''There is an emanation from the heart in genuine hospitality, which cannot be described, but is imme- diately felt, and puts the stranger at once at his ease," With respect to the continuance of friendships, however, it may be foimd necessary, in somo cases, for a mistres.^ to relinquish, on assuming the responsibility of a house- hold, many of those commenced in the earlier part of her life. This will be tlio moro requisite, if the number still retained be quite equal to her means and opportunities.