894 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. and roast veal, instead of bacon : when tender, and not over salt, it will be found equally good. Time.—K piece of pickled pork weighing 2 lbs., Ij hour; 4 lbs., rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, lOd. per lb. for the primest parts. Seasonable at any time. The Aktiqijity oi? the Hog.—By vrliat nation and in what period the Log was reclaiiDed, is iuvolved in the deepest obscurity. So far back as we have any records of history, we find notices of this animal, and of its flesh being used as the food of man. By some nations, however, its llesh was denounced as unclean, and therefore prohibited to be used, whilst by others it was esteemed as a great delicacy. By the Mosaic law it was foi'bidden to be eaten by the Jews, and the Mahometans hold it in utter abhor- rence. Dr. Kitto, however, says that there does not appear to be any reason in the law of Moses why the hog should be held in such peculiar abomination. There seems nothing to have prevented the Jews, if they had been so inclined, to rear pigs for sale, or for the use of the land. In the Talmud there are some indications that this was actually done; and it was, probably, for such purposes that the herds of swine mentioned in the New Testament w^ere kept, although it is usual to consider that they were kept by the foreign settlers in the land. Indeed, the story which accounts for the peculiar aversion of the Hebrews to the hog, assumes that it did not originate until about 130 years before Christ, and that, previously, some Jews were in the habit of rearing hogs for the purposes indicated. FOEK PISS (Warwickshire Hecipe). 835. Ingredients.—For the crust, 5 lbs. of lard to 14 lbs. of flour, milk, and water. For filling the pies, to every 3 lbs. of meat allow 1 oz. of salt, 2j oz. of pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, 1 pint of water. Hocle.—Ruh into the flour a portion of the lard; the remainder put with sufficient milk and v/ater to mix the crust, and boil this gently for J hour. Pour it boiling on the flour, and knead and beat it till perfectly smooth. 'Now raise the crust in either a round or oval form, cut up the pork into pieces the size of a nut, season it in the above proportion, and press it compactly into the pie, in alternate layers of fat and lean, and pour in a small quantity of water; lay on the lid, cut the edges smoothly round, and pinch them together. Bake in a brick oven, which should be slow, as the meat is very solid. Yery frequently, the inexperienced cook finds much difficulty in raising the crust. She should bear in mind that it must not be allowed to get cold, or it will fall immediately: to prevent this, the operation should be performed as near the fire as possible. As considerable dexterity and expertness are necessary to raise the crust v/ith the hand only, a glass bottle or small jar may be placed in the middle of the paste, and the crust moulded on this; but be particular that it is kept warm the whole time. Su:^cient.~The proportions for 1 pie are 1 lb. of flour and 3 lbs. of meat. Seasonable from September to March.