MUTTON. 349 the fire, as the fat should not be in the slightest degree burnt. Keep constantly basting, both before and after the skin is removed; sprinkle some salt over the joint. Make a little gravy in the dripping-pan ; pour it over the meat, which send to table with a tureen of made gravy and red-currant jelly. Time—A saddle of mutton weighing 10 lbs., 2i hours; 14 lbs., 3j hours. When liked underdone, allow rather less time. Average costy IQd. per lb. Sufficient.—A moderate-sized saddle of 10 lbs. for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year; not so good when lamb is in full season. BOAST SHOULDER OF MTJTTOIT. 739. Ingredients.—Shoulder of mutton; a little salt. Mode.—Vxit the joint down to a bright, clear fire ; flour it well, and keep continually basting. About J hour before serving, draw it near the fire, that the outside may acquire a nice brown colour, but not sufficiently near to blacken the fat. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat, empty the dripping-pan of its contents, pour in shouldeb of mutton-. a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain this over the joint. Onion sauce, or stewed Spanish onions, are usually sent to table with this dish, and sometimes baked potatoes. Time.—A shoulder of mutton weighing 6 or 7 lbs., li hour. Average cost^ Sd. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. iVo^e.-—Shoulder of mutton may be dressed in a variety of ways; boiled, and served with onion sauce; boned, and stuffed with a good veal forcemeat; or baked, with sliced potatoes in the dripping-pan. The Etteice Shepherd.—James Hogg was perhaps the most remarkable man that exer wore the maud of a shepherd. Under the garb, aspect, and bearing of a rude peasant (and rude enough he was in most of these things, even after no inconsiderable experience of society), the world soon discovered a true poet. He taught himself to write, by copying the letters of a printed book as he lay watching his flock on the hill- side, and believed that he had reached the utmost pitch of his ambition when he first found that his artless rhymes could touch the heart of the ewe-milker who partook the shelter of his mantle during the passing storm. If ** the shepherd " of Professor Wilson's *' Noctes Ambrosianse " may be taken as a true portrait of James Hogg, we must admit that, for quaintness of humour, the poet of Ettrick Porest had few rivals. Sir Walter Scott said that Hopg's thousand little touches of absurdity afforded him more enter- tainment than the best comedy that ever set the pit in a roar. Among the written productions of the shepherd-poet, is an account of his own experiences in sheep-tending, called The Shepherd's Calender." This work contains a vast amount of useful in- formation upon sheep, their diseases, habits, and management. The Ettrick Shepherd died in 1835.