BEEF. 807 NoU.—Vfhen tliG wciglit exceeds 10 lbs., we would not advise tlie above mothod of bonrng and rolling; only in the case of 1 or 2 ribs, when the joint cannot stand upright in the dish, and would look awkward. The bones should be put on with a few vegetables and herbs, and made into stock. EoAST Beef has long been a national dish in England. In most of our patriotic songs it is contrasted with the fricasseed frogs, popularly supposed to be the exclusiye diet of rrencLmen. O the roast beef of old England, And O the old English roast beef." This national chorus is appealed to whenever a song-writer wishes to account for the valour displayed by Englishmen at sea or on land. BOAST SmiiOIN OF BSEF. 659. Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Mode,—As a joint cannot be well roasted without a good fire, see that it is well made up about f hour before it is required, so that when the joint is put down, it is clear and bright. Choose a nice sir- I loin, the v/eight of which should not exceed 16 lbs,, as the outside would be too much done, whilst the inside would not be done enough. Spit it or hook it on to the jack firmly, dredge it slightly with flour, and place it near the fire at first, as directed in the preceding recipe. Then draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done. Sprinkle a small quantity of salt over it, empty the dripping-pan of all the dripping, pour in some boiling water slightly salted, stir it about, and strain over the meat. Garnish with tufts of horseradish, and send horseradish saaice and Yorkshire pudding to table with it. For carving, see p. 317. Time.—A sirloin of 10 lbs., 2i hours; 14 to 16 lbs., about 4 or 4i hours. Average costy S^d. per lb. Sufficient.—A joint of 10 lbs. for 8 or 9 persons. Seasojiahle at any time. I The rump, round, and other pieces of beef are roasted in the same [manner, allowing for solid joints 5 hour to every lb. I^ote.—The above is the usual method of roasting meat; but to have it in perfection and the juices kept in, the meat should at first be laid close to the fire, and when the outside is set and firm, drawn away to a good distance, and then left to roast very slowly ; where economy is studied, this plan would not answer, as the meat requires to be at the fire double the time of the ordinary way of cooking ; consequently, double the quantity of fuel would be consumed. ^ ORiGiisr OP THE WOEU " SiRLOiiT."—The loin of beef is said to have been knighted by iimg Charles II., at Friday Hall, Chingford. Tlie " Merry Monarch" returned to this liospitable mansion from Epping Forest literally ''as hungry as a hunter," and beheld, n ith delight, a huge loin of beet steaming upon the table. " A noble joint!" exclaimed I x2