1035 reahi^^g, etc., of children. required to keep the mind and body up to a standard sufficiently healthy to admit of a constant and nutritious secretion being performed without detri- ment to the physical integrity of the mother, or injury to the child who im- bibes it; and as stimulants are inadmissible, if not positively injurious, the substitute required is to be found in malt liquor. To the lady accustomed to her Madeira and sherry, this may appear a very vulgar potation for a delicate young mother to take instead of the more subtle and condensed elegance of wine ; but as we are writing from experience, and with the avowed object of imparting useful facts and beneficial remedies to 'our readers, we allow no social distinctions to interfere with our legitimate object. 2474. We have already said that the suckling mother should avoid stimu- lants, especially spirituous ones ; and though something of this sort is ab- solutely necessary to sui)port her strength during the exhausting process, it should be rather of a tonic than of a stimulating character ; and as all wines contain a large percentage of brandy, they are on that account less bene- ficial than the pure juice of the fermented grape might be. But there is another consideration to be taken into account on this subject; the mother has not only to think of herself, but also of her infant. Now wines, especially port wine, very often—indeed, most frequently—afiect the baby's bowels, and what might have been grateful to the mother becomes thus a source of pain and irritation to the child afterwards. Sherry is less open to this objection than other wines, yet still it very frequently does influence the second parti- cipator, or the child whose mother has taken it. 2475. The nine or twelve months a woman usually suckles must be, to some extent, to most mothers, a period of privation and penance, and unless she is deaf to the cries of her baby, and insensible to its kicks and plunges, and v/ill not see in such muscular evidences the griping pains that rack her child, she will avoid every article that can remotely afifect the little being who draws its sustenance from her. She will see that the babe is acutely afiected by all that in any way influences her, and willingly curtail her own enjoyments, rather than see her infant rendered feverish, irritable, and uncomfortable. As the best tonic, then, and the most efficacious indirect stimulant that a mother can take at such times, there is no potation equal to 'porter and stout, or, what is better still, an equal part of porter and stout. Ale, except for a few constitutions, is too subtle and too sweet, generally causing acidity or heartburn, and stout alone is too potent to admit of a full draught, from its proneness to affect the head; and quantity, as well as moderate streng-th, is required to make the draught effectual; the equal mixture, therefore, of stout and porter yields all the properties deshed or desirable as a medicinal agent for this purpose. 2476. Independently of its invigorating influence on the constitution, porter exerts a raarlced and specific effect on tie secretion of mill-, more powerful in exciting an abundant sup)ply of that fluid than any other article within Hie