MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME SOUPS. if/bJe.—Scald the head with the skin on, remove the brain, tie tha head up in a cloth, and let it boil for 1 hour. Then take the meat from the bones, cut it into small square pieces, and throw them inta eold water. Now take the meat, put it into a stewpan, and cover with stock; let it boil gently for an hour, or rather more, if not quite tender, and set it on one side. Melt the butter in another stewpan, and add the ham, cut small, with the herbs, parsley, onions, shal- lots, mushrooms, and nearly a pint of stock; let these simmer slowly for 2 hours, and then dredge in as much flour as will dry up the butter. Fill up with the remainder of the stock, add the wine, let it stew gently for 10 minutes, rub it through a tammy, and put it to the calf *s head; season with cayenne, and, if required, a little salt; add the juice of the orange and lemon; and when liked, 5 teaspoonful o^ pounded mace, and the sugar. Put in the force-meat balls, simmer. 5 minutes, and serve very hot. T{me.—4:i hours. Average cost, Zs. ed, per quart, or 2s. Qd. without wine or force-meat balls. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—The bones of the head should be well stewed in the liquor it was first boiled in, and will make good white stock, flavoured with vegetables, &c. II. {More Economical.) 173. Ingeedients.—A knuckle of veal weighing 5 or 6 lbs., 2 cow- heels, 2 large onions stuck with cloves, 1 bunch of sweet herbs> 3 blades of mace, salt to taste, 12 peppercorns, 1 glass of sherry, 24 force-meat balls, a little lemon-juice, 4 quarts of water. Mode,—Put all the ingredients, except the force-meat balls and lemon-juice, in an earthen jar, and stew for 6 hours. Do not open it till cold. "When wanted for use, skim off all the fat, and strain carefully; place it on the fire, cut up the meat into inch-and-a-half squares, put it, with the force-meat balls and lemon-juice, into th& soup, and serve. It can be flavoured with a tablespoonful of anchovy* or Harvey*s sauce. Time.—Q hours. Average costy Is, id, per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 10 persons. Thb Calf.—The flesh of this animal is called veal, and when yonng, that is, under two months old, yields a large quantity of soluWe extract, and is, therefore, much employed for soups and broths. The Essex farmers hare obtained a celebrity for fattening calvea better than any others in England, where they are plentifully supplied with milk^ a thing impossible to be done in the immediate neighbourhood of London.