THE DOCTOR. 10D3 cows, where tliey are sometimes very troublesome, and prevent them stand- ing quiet to be milked. The wart touched lightly every second day with lunar caustic, or rubbed every night with blue-stone, for a few weeks, will destroy the largest wart, wherever situated. 2681. To Cure a Whitlow.—As soon as the whitlow has risen distinctly, a pretty largo piece should be snipped out, so that the watery matter may readily escape, and continue to flow out as fast as produced. A bread-and- water poultice should be put on for a few days, when the wound should be bound up lightly with some mild ointment, when a cure will be speedily com- pleted. Constant poulticing both before and after the opening of the whitlow, is the only practice needed; but as the matter lies deep, when it is necessary to open the abscess, the incision muat be made deep to reach the sup- puration. 2682. Wounds.—There are several kinds of wounds, which are called by different names, according to their appearance, or the manner in which they are produced. As, however, it would be useless, and even hurtful, to bother the reader's head with too many nice professional distinctions, we shall content om'selves with dividing wounds into three classes. 26S3. 1. Incised loounds or cuts—those produced by a knife, or some sharp instrument. 2684. 2. Lacerated, or torn wounds—those produced by the claws of an animal, the bite of a dog, running quickly against some projecting blunt object, such as a nail, &c. 2685. 3. Punctured or penetrating ivoiLnds—ihozQ produced by anything running deeply into the flesh ; such as a sword, a sharp nail, a spike, the point of a bayonet, &c. 2686. Class 1. Incised loounds or cuts.—The danger arising from these acci- dents is owing more to their position than to their extent. Thus, a cut of half an inch long, which goes through an artery, is more serious than a cut of two inches long, which is not near one. Again, a small cut on the head is moro often followed by dangerous symptoms than a much larger one on the legs.— Treatment. If the cut is not a very large one, and no artery or vein is wounded, this is very simple. If there are any foreign substances left in the wound, they must be taken out, and the bleeding must be quite stopped before the wound is strapped up. If the bleeding is not very great, it may easily be stopped by raising the cut pai-t, and applying rags dipped in cold water to it. All clots of blood must be carefully removed ; for, if they are left behind, they prevent the wound from healing. When the bleeding has been stopped, and the wound perfectly cleaned, its two edges are to be brought closely together by thin stiaps of common adhesive plaster, which should remain on, if there IS not great pain or heat about the part, for two or three days, without being