766 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. TO FKESEilVE APPLES IIT QUARTEPtS, in imitation of Ginger. 1520. Ingkediekts.—To every lb. of apples allow fib. of sugar, l|oz.. of tlie best white ginger ; 1 oz. of ginger to every i pint of water. Ilode.—'Peelf core, and quarter tlie apples, and put the fruit, sugar, and ginger in layers into a wide-mouthed jar, and let them remain for 2 days ; then infuse 1 oz. of ginger in i pint of boiling water, and cover it closely, and let it remain for 1 day : this quantity of ginger and water is for 3 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in propor- tion. Put the apples, &c., into a preserving-pan with the water strained from the ginger, and boil till the apples look clear and the syrup is rich, which will be in about an hour. The rind of a lemon may be added just before the apples have finished boiling; and great care must be taken not to break the pieces of apple in putting them into the jars. Serve on glass dishes for dessert. Inline.—2 days for the apples to remain in the jar with sugar, &c.; 1 day to infuse the ginger; about 1 hour to boil the apples. Average cost, for 3 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in pro- portion, 2s. dd. Sufficient.—3 lbs. should fill 3 moderate-sized jars. Seasoizahle,—This should be made in September, October, or No- vember, COMPOTE 05^ APBICOTS. {An elegant Dish.) 1521. iNaEEDiENTS.—I pint of syrup Ko. 1512, 12 green apricots. Ilode.—Make the syrup by recipe ]N'o. 1512, and, when it is ready, put in the apricots whilst the syrup is boiling. Simmer them very gently until tender, taking care not to let them break ; take them out carefully, arrange them on a glass dish, let the syrup cool a little, pour it over the apricots, and, when cold, serve. Ti?ne.—From 15 to 20 minutes to simmer the apricots. Average cost^ 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in June and July, with green apricots. APBICOT JAM or MABMALADB. 15-2, iNGiiEDiENTS.—To Gvciy lb. of ripe apricots, weighed after being skinned and stoned, allow 1 lb. of sugar. 3Iode.—V'cV£Q the apricots, which should be ripe, as thinly as pos- sible, break them in half, and remove the stones. Weigh the fruit, and to every lb. allow the same proportion of loaf sugar. Pound the