5Q5 VEGETABLES. CAUIiIPLOWERS A LA SATJCE BLANCHE. (Entremets, or Side-dish, to be served with the Second Course.) 1105. IifGREDiENTS.—3 cauliflowers, i pint of sauce blanche, or French melted butter, No. 378 ; 3 oz. of butter ; salt and water. 3Iode.—Cleanse the cauliflowers as in the preceding recipe, and cut the stalks off flat at the bottom; boil them until tender in salt and water, to which the above proportion of butter has been added, and be careful to take them up the moment they are done, or they will break, and the appearance of the dish will be spoiled. Drain them well, and dish them in the shape of a large cauliflower. Have ready ^ pint of sauce, made by recipe No. 378, pour it over the flowers, and serve hot and quickly. Ittne.—Small cauliflowers, 12 to 15 minutes, large ones, 20 to 25 minutes, after the water boils. Average cost,—large cauliflowers, in full season, 6d. each. Sufficient^—1 large cauliflower for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from the beginning of June to the end of September. Caijlt¥Loweii and Beocoli.—Those are only forms of the wild Cabbnga in its culti- vated state. They are both well known ; but we may observe, ihni the purple and white Brocoli are only varieties of the Cauliilower. CAXJLIPLOWEKS WITH PABMBSAl^ CHEESE. (Entremets, or Side-dish, to be served v/itli the Second Covirse.) iio6. Ingkedients.—2 or 3 cauliflowers, rather more than | pint of white sauce No. 378, 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, 2 oz. of fresh butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. Mode.—Cleanse and boil the cauliflowers by recipe No. 1104, and drain them and dish them with the flowers standing upright. Have ready the above proportion of white sauce ; pour suflicient of it over the cauliflowers just to cover the top ; sprinkle over this some rasped Parmesan cheese and bread crumbs, and drop on these the butter, which should be melted, but not oiled. Brown with a salamander, or before the fire, and pour round, but not over, the flowers the remainder of the sauce, with which should be mixed a small quantity of grated jParmesan cheese. I 2V?«e.—Altogether, \ hour. Average cost, for large cauliflowers, Be?, each. I Si(fficient,^Z small cauliflowers for 1 dish. j Seasonable from the beginning of June to the end of September,