]023 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEM^ENT. welcomed in its ovv^n existence, like the morning bird, with a shrill note of gladness, the infant ceases its cry, and, after a few short sobs, usually subsides into sleep or quietude. 2454. At the same instant that the air rushes into the lungs, the valve, or door between the two sides of the heart—and through which the blood had previously passed—is closed and hermetically sealed, and the blood taking a nev/ course, bounds into the lungs, now expanded with air, and which we have likened to a wetted sponge, to which they bear a not unapt affinit}^, air being substituted for water. It here receives the oxygen from the atmosphere, and the chyle, or white blood, from the digested food, and becomes, in an instant, arterial blood, a vital principle, from which every solid and fluid of the body is constructed. Besides the lungs. Nature has pi'ovided another respiratory organ, a sort of supplemental lung, that, as well as being a covering to the body, i?ispires air and e^'pires moisture;—this is the cuticle, or skin ; and so intimate is the connection between the skin and lungs, that whatever injures the first, is certain to affect the latter. 2455. Hence the difficulty of Ircathing experienced after scalds or hums on the cuticle, the cough that follous the alsor];)tion of cold or damp hy the slin^ the oppressed and laborious breathing experienced by children in all eruptive diseases, v:hile the rash is coming to the surface, and the hot, dry shin that alv:ays attends congestion of the lungs, and fever. 2456. The great practical advantage derivable from this fact is, the know- ledge that whatever relieves the one benefits the other. Hence, too, the great utility of hot baths in all affections of the lungs or diseases of the skin ; and the reason why exposure to cold or wet is, in nearly all cases, followed by tightness of the chest, sore throat, difficulty of breathing, and cough. These symptoms are the consequence of a larger quantity of blood than is natural remaining in the lungs, and the cough is a mere effort of Nature to throw ofi the obstruction caused by the presence of too much'blood in the organ of respiration. The hot bath, by causing a larger amount of blood to rush suddenly to the skin, has the effect of relieving the lungs of their excess of blood, and by equalizing the circulation, aud promoting perspiration from the cuticle, affords immediate and direct benefit, both to the lungs and the system at largo. The Stomach.—Digestion. 2457. The organs that cither directly or indirectly contribute to the process of digestion are, the mouth, teeth, tongue, and gullet, tlie stomach, small in- testines, the pancreas, the salivary glands, and the liver. Next to respiration, digestion is the chief function in the economy of life, as, without the nutri- tious fiuid digested from the aliment, there would be nothing to supply the immense and constantly recurring waste of the system, caused by the activity with which the arteries at all periods, but especially during infancy and youth, are building up the frame and developing the body. In infancy (the period of