BEVERAGES. 885 MALT V/INE. 18-24. Ingredients.—5 gallons of water, 28 lbs. of swgciYy 6 quarts of sweet-wort, 6 quarts of tun, 3 lbs. of raisins, 5 lb. of candy, 1 pint of brandy. Mode.—Boil tlie sugar and water together for 10 minutes; skim it well, and put the liquor into a convenient-sized pan or tub. Allow it to cool; then mix it with the sweet-wort and tun. Let it stand for 3 days, then put it into a barrel; here it will work or ferment for another three days or more; then bung up the cask, and keep it undisturbed for 2 or 3 months. After this, add the raisins (whole), the candy, and brandy, and, in 6 months' time, bottle the wine off. Those who do not brew, may procure the sweet-wort and tun from any brewer. Sweet-wort is the liquor that leaves the mash of malt before it is boiled with the hops; tun is the new beer after the whole of the brewing operation has been completed. Ti7ne.—To be boiled 10 minutes; to stand 3 days after mixing ; to ferment 3 days ; to remain in the cask 2 months before the raisins are added ; bottle 6 months after. Seasonable.—Make this in March or October. HOME-MADE ITOYEAU. 1825. Ingredients.—2 oz. of bitter almonds, 1 oz. of sweet ditto, 1 lb. of loaf sugar, the rinds of 8 lemons, 1 quart of Irish whiskey or gin, 1 tablespoonful of clarified honey, i pint of new milk. JibfZe.—Blanch and pound the almonds, and mix with them the sugar, which should also be pounded. Boil the milk; let it stand till quite cold ; then mix all the ingredients together, and let them remain for 10 days, shaking them every day. Filter the mixture through blotting-paper, bottle of£ for use in small bottles, and seal the corks down. This will be found useful for flavouring many sweet dishes. Average cost^ 2s. 9c?. Sufficient to make about 2i pints of Koyeau. Seasonable.—May be made at any time. OKAHGB BBANDY. {Excellent.) 1826. Ingredients.—To every i gallon of brandy allow | pint of Seville orange-juice, l\ lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—To bring out the full flavour of the orange-peel, rub a few lumps of the sugar on 2 or 3 unpared oranges, and put these lumps to