772 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Time.—^ to % hour, reckoning from the time the jam hoils all over. Average cost, for a lb. pot, from 6d. to 8^?. Sufficient.—Allow from 6 to 7 quarts of currants to make 12 1-lb. pots of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in July. BED-OURKANT JELLY. 1533. Ingredients.-—Eed currants; to every pint of juice allow J lb. of loaf sugar. Mode,—Have the fruit gathered in fine weather ; pick it from the stalks, put it into a jar, and place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and let it simmer gently until the juice is well drawn from the currants; then strain them through a jelly-bag or fine cloth, and, if the jelly is wished very clear, do not squeeze them too mticJif as the skin and pulp from the fruit will be pressed through with the juice, and so make the jelly muddy. Measure the juice, and to each pint allow f lb. of loaf sugar ; put these into a preserving-pan, set it over the fire, and keep stirring the jelly until it is done, carefully removing every particle of scum as it rises, using a wooden or silver spoon for the purpose, as metal or iron ones would spoil the colour of the jelly. When it has boiled from 20 minutes to i hour, put a little of the jelly on a plate, and if firm when cool, it is done. Take it off the fire, pour it into small gallipots, cover each of the pots with an oiled paper, and then with a piece of tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Label the pots, adding the year when the jelly was made, and store it away in a dry place. A jam may be made with the currants, if they are not squeezed too dry, by adding a few fresh raspberries, and boiling all together, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely. As this preserve is not worth storing away, but is only for immediate eating, a smaller proportion of sugar than usual will be found enough : it answers very well for children's pud- dings, or for a nursery preserve. Time.—From f to 1 hour to extract the juice; 20 minutes to 4 hour to boil the jelly. Average cost^ from 8d. to 10c?. per i-lb. pot. Sufficient.—8 quarts of currants will make from 10 to 12 pots of jelly. Seasonable.—Make this in July. J}^ote.—Should the above proportion of sugar not be found sufficient for some tastes, add an extra | lb. to every pint of juice, making altogether 1 lb. WHITE-CUBIIAIMT JELLY. 1534. Ingeedients.—White currants; to every pint of juice allow fib. of good loaf sugar.