995 DUTILS OF THE HOUSEMAID. swept in the same manner, slightly beaten, the cushions shaken and smoothed, the picture-frames swept, and everything arranged in its proper place. This, of course, applies to dining as well as drawing-room and morning-room. And now the housemaid may dress herself for the day, and prepare for the family dinner, at which she must attend. 2314. We need not repeat the long instructions already given for laying the dinner-table. At the family dinner, even where no footman waits, the routine will be the same. In most families the cloth is laid with the slips on each side, with napkins, knives, forks, spoons, and wine and finger glasses on all occasions. "2315. She should ascertain that her plate is in order, glasses free from smears, water-bottles and decanters the same, and everything ready on her tray, that she may be able to lay her cloth properly. Few things add more to the neat and com- fortable appearance of a dinner-table than well- polished plate; indeed, the state of the plate is a certain indication of a well-managed or ill- managed household. Nothing is easier than to keep plate in good order, and yet many servants, from stupidity and ignorance, make it the greatest trouble of all things under butler's trat and stand. their care. It should be remembered, that it is utterly impossible to make greasy silver take a polish; and that as spoons and forks in daily use are continually in contact with grease, they must require good washing in soap- and-water to remove it. Silver should be washed with a soapy flannel in one water, rinsed in another, and then wiped dry with a dry cloth. The plate so washed may be polished with the plate-rags, as in the following directions:—Once a week all the plate should receive a thorough cleaning with the hartshorn powder, as directed in the first recipe for cleaning plate ; and where the housemaid can find time, rubbed every day with the plate-rags. 2316. Hartshorn, we may observe, is one of the best possible ingredients for plate- owder in daily use. It leaves on the silver a deep, dark polish, and at the same time oes less injury than anything else. It has also the advantage of being very cheap ; almost all the ordinary powders sold in boxes containing more or less of quicksilver, in some form or another; and this in process of time is sure to make the plate brittle. If any one wishes to be convinced of the effect of quicksilver on plate, he has only to rub a little of it on one place for some time,—on the handle of a silver teaspoon for instance, and he will find it break in that spot with very little pressure. To Clean Plate. A very excellent method. 2317, Wash the plate well to remove all grease, in a strong lather of com- mon yellow soap and boiling water, and wipe it yL^,,.,,,,^,,,^^^,^,,,.. --— ir^ quite dry ; then mix as much hartshorn powder as ^irairlnl fWfmlll will be required, into a thick paste,with cold water plate-brush. or spirits of wine ; smear this lightly over the plate with a piece of soft rag, 3 s 2