VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 591 endive, or a few tufts of boiled cauliflov/er. This composition, if less agreeable than vegetables in their raw state, is more wholesome; for salads, however they may be compounded, when eaten uncooked, prove to some people indigestible. Tarragon, chervil, burnet, and boiled onion, may be added to the above salad with advantage, as also slices of cold meat, poultry, or fish. Seasonable from July to October. AcETARious Vegetables.—By the term Acetarious vegetables, is expressed a nume- rous class of plants, of various culture and habit, which are principally used as salads, pickles, and condiments. They are to be considered rather as articles of comparative luxury than as ordinary food, and are more desirable for their coolness, or their agree- able flavour, than for their nutritive powers. Cauliflower.—The cauliflower is less indigestible than the cabbage j it possesses a most agreeable flavour, and is sufliciently delicate to be served at the tables of the wealthy. It is a wholesome vegetable, but should be eaten moderately, as it induces flatulence. Persons of weak constitutions and dehcate stomachs should abstain from caviliflower as much as possible. They may be prepared in a variety of ways; and, ia selecting them, the whitest should be chosen; those tinged with green or yellow being of indiiiererit quahty. SIJMMEB BAIiAD. 1152. Ti5"GREDiENTS.—3 lettuccs, 2 handfuls of mustaid-and-cress, 10 young radishes, a few slices of cucumber. Mode.—Let the herbs be as fresh as possible for a salad, and, if at all stale or dead-looking, let them lie in water for an hour or two, which will very much refresh them. "Wash and carefully pick them over, remove any de- cayed or wormeaten leaves, and drain them thoroughly by swinging them gently in a clean cloth. With a silver knife, cut the lettuces into small pieces, and the radishes and cucum- bers into thin slices ; arrange all these ingre- salad m bowl. dients lightly on a dish, with the mustard- and-cress, and pour under, but not over the salad, either of the sauces No. 506, 507, or 508, and do not stir it up until it is to be eaten. It may be garnished with hard-boiled eggs, cut in slices, sliced cucumbers, nasturtiums, cut vegetable-flowers, and many other things that taste will always suggest to make a pretty and elegant dish. In making a good salad, care must be taken to have the herbs freshly gathered, and tlioroughlij drained before the sauce is added to them, or it will be watery and thin. Young spring onions, cut small, are by many persons considered an improvement to salads; but, before these are added, the cook should always consult the taste of her employer. Slices of cold meat or poultry added to a salad make a convenient and quickly-made summer luncheon-dish; or cold fish, flaked, will also be found exceedingly nice, mixed with it.