BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 865 SNOW-CAKE. {A genuine Scotch Recipe.) 1778. Ingredients.—1 lb. of arrowroot, i lb. of pounded white sugar, i lb, of butter, the whites of 6 eggs; tiavouriug to taste, of essence of almonds, or vanilla, or lemon. ilibc?e.—Beat the butter to a cream; stir in the sugar and arrow- root gradually, at the same time beating the mixture. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the other ingredients, and beat well for 20 minutes. Put in whichever of the above ilavour- ings may be preferred; pour the cake into a buttered mould or tin and bake it in a moderate oven from 1 to hour. Time.—1 to 1^ hour. Average cost, with the best Bermuda arrowroot, 4s. Q»cl.; with Bt. Yincent ditto, 25. 9d Sufficient to make a moderate-sized cake. ISeasonahle at any time. SCRAP-CAKES. 1779. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of leaf, or the inside fat of a pig; Ulb. of hour, ^ lb. of moist sugar, ^ lb. of currants, 1 oz. of candied lemon- peel, ground allspice to taste. llocle.—Cut the leaf, or Head, as it is sometimes called, into small pieces; put it into a large dish, which place in a quick oven; be careful that it does not burn, and in a short time it will be reduced to oil, with the small pieces of leaf floating on the surface; and it is of these that the cakes should be made. Gather all the scraps together, put them into a basin wdth the hour, and rub them well together. Add the currants, sugar, candied peel, cut into thin slices, and the ground allspice. When ail these ingredients are w^ell mixed, moisten with sufficient cold water to make the whole into a nice paste; roll it out thin, cut it into shapes, and bake the cakes in a quick oven from 15 to 20 minutes. These are very economical and wholesome cakes for children, and the lard, melted at home, produced from the dead, is generally better than that you purchase. To prevent the lard from burning, and to insure its being a good colour, it is better to melt it in u jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water; by doing it in this manner, there will be no chance of its discolouring. Ti7ne.—15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient to make 3 or 4 dozen cakes. Seasonable from ^rieptember to March. 3 K