wo MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. keep stirring all the time. Serve very hot, and quickly. If milk is used instead of cream, a very small quantity of thickening may be required : that, of course, the cook will determine. Teme.—Altogether nearly two hours. Average cost^ Sd, Sufficientt this quantity, for a turkey. BKOWN CHESTNUT SAUCE. 391. iNGnEDiENTS.—i lb. of chestuuts, i pink of stock No. 105, 2 lumps of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of Spanish sauce {see Sauces). J!foc?<?.—Prepare the chestnuts as in the foregoing recipe, by scalding and peeling them ; put them in a stewpan with the stock and sugar, and simmer them till tender. When done, add Spanish sauce in the above proportion, and rub the whole through a tammy. Keep this sauce rather liquid, as it is liable to thicken. Time,—li hour to simmer the chestnuts. Average cost, Sd, BEITGAIi BECIPE FOB MAKING MANGO CHETNEY. 392. Ingredients.—1J lbs. of moist sugar, | lb. of salt, | lb. of garlic, i lb. of onions, i lb. of powdered ginger, i lb. of dried chilies, % lb. of mustard-seed, | lb. of stoned raisins, 2 bottles of best vinegar, 30 large unripe sour apples. Mode.—The sugar must be made into syrup ; the garlic, onions, and ginger be finely pounded in a mortar; the mustard-seed be washed in cold vinegar, and dried in the sun ; the apples be peeled, cored, and sliced, and boiled in a bottle and a half of the vinegar. "When all this is done, and the apples are quite cold, put them into a large pan, and gradually mix the whole of the rest of the ingredients, including the remaining half-hot tie of vinegar. It must be well stirred until the whole is thoroughly blended, and then put into bottles for use. Tie a piece of wet bladder over the mouths of the bottles, after they are well corked. This chetney is very superior to any which can be bought, and one trial will prove it to be delicious. Note.—This recipe was given by a native to an English lacly, who had long been a resident in India, and who, since her return to her native country, has become quite celebrated amongst her friends for the excellence of this Eastern relish. Gaklic.—The smell of this plant is generally considered oSensive, and it is the most acrimonious in its taste of the whole of the alliaceous tribe. In 1548 it was introduced to England from the shores of the Mediterranean, where it is GAELIC, abundant, and in Sicily it grows naturally. It was in greater repute with our ancestors than it is with ourselves, although it is still used as a seasoning herb. On the continent, especially in Italy, it is much used, and the French consider it an essential in many made dishes.