83a MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 1700. The utensils required for making bread, on a moderate scale, are a kneading-trough or pan, sufficiently large that the dough may be kneaded freely without throwing the flour over the edges, and also to allow for its rising ; a hair sieve for straining yeast, and one or two strong spoons. 1701. Yeast must always be good of its kind, and in a fitting state to pro- duce ready and proper fermentation. Yeast of strong beer or ale produces more effect than that of milder kinds; and the fresher the yeast, the smaller the quantity will be required to raise the dough. 1702. As a general rule, the oven for baking bread should be rather quick, and the heat so regulated as to penetrate the dough without hardening the outside. The oven door should not be opened after the bread is put in until the dough is set, or has become firm, as the cool air admitted will have an unfavourable effect on it. 1703. Brick ovens are generally considered the best adapted for baking bread: these should be heated with wood faggots, and then swept and mopjoed out, to cleanse them for the reception of the bread. Iron ovens are more diffi- cult to manage, being apt to burn the surface of the bread before the middle is baked. To remedy this, a few clean bricks should be set at the bottom of the oven, close together, to receive the tins of bread. In many modern stoves the ovens are so much improved that they bake admirably; and they can always be brought to the required temperature, when it is higher than is needed, by leaving the door open for a time. A FEW HINTS respecting the Making and Baking of CAKES. 1704. Eggs should always be broken into a cup, the whites and yolks sepa- rated, and they should always be strained. Breaking the eggs thus, the bad ones may be easily rejected without spoiling the others, and so cause no waste. As eggs are used instead of j^east, they should be very thoroughly whisked; they are generally sufficiently beaten when thick enough to carry the drop that falls from the whisk. 1705. Loof Sugar should be well pounded, and then sifted through a fine sieve. 1706. Currants should be nicely washed, picked, dried in a cloth, and then ■carefully examined, that no pieces of grit or stone may be left amongst them. They should then be laid on a dish before the fire, to become thoroughly dry; as, if added damp to the other ingredients, cakes will be liable to be heavy. 1707. Good Butter should alwaj^s be used in the manufacture of cakes ; and if beaten to a cream, it saves much time and labour to warm, but not melt, it before beating.