91 MEAT, POULTRY, AlsD GALiE SOUPS. Sufficient for 12 persons. simmer until the meat is done. When ready for use, take out tlie meat, dish it up with carrots and turnips, and send it to table ; strain the soup, let it cool, skim off all the fat, season and thicken it with a tablespoonful, or rather more, of arrowroot; flavour with a little sherry, simmer for 5 minutes, and serve. Ti7ne.—i5 hours. Average cost, including the meat, Is. 3c?. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Sheep.—This animal formed tlie principal riches of the patriarchs, in tlie days of old, and, no doubt, multiplied, until its species were spread over the greater part of Western Asia; but at what period it was introduced to Britain is not known. It is now found in almost every part of the globe, although, as a domestic animal, it depends almost entirely upon man for its support. Its value, however, amply repays him for whatever care and kindness he may bestow upon it; for, like the ox, there ia scarcely a part of it that he cannot convert to some useful purpose. The fleece, which serves it for a covering, is appropriated by man, to serve the same end to himself, whilst its skin is also applied to various purposes in civilized lile. Its entrails are used as strings for musical instruments, and its bones are calcined, and employed as tests in the trade of the refiner. Its milk, being thicker than that of the cow, yields a greater quantity of butter and cheese, and its liesh is among the most wholesome and nutritive that can be eaten. Thomson has beautifully described the appearance of the sheep, when bound to undergo the operation of being shorn of its wool. " Behold, where bound, and of its robe bereft By needy man, that all-depending lord, How meek, how patient, the mild creature lies ! What softness in his melancholy face. What dumb complaining innocence appears l" OX-CHEEK SOUP. 176. IKGEEDIENTS.—An ox-cheek, 2 oz. of butter, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 parsnip, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 3 heads of celery, 3 blades of mace, 4 cloves, a faggot of savoury herbs, 1 bay-leaf, a tea- spoonful of salt, half that of pepper, 1 head of celery, browning, the crust of a French roll, 5 quarts of water, 3Iode,—Lay the ham in the bottom of the stewpan, with the butter; break the bones of the cheek, wash it clean, and put it on the ham. Cut the vegetables small, add them to the other ingredients, and set the whole over a slow fire for J of an hour. Now put in the water, and simmer gently till it is reduced to 4 quarts ; take out the fleshy part of the cheek, and strain the soup into a clean stewpan; thicken with flour, put in a head of sliced celery, and simmer till the celery is tender. If not a good colour, use a little browning. Cut the meat into small square pieces, pour the soup over, and serve with the crust of a French roll in the tureen. A glass of sherry much improves this soup. Time.—S to 4 hours. Average cost, Sd. per quart. Seasonable in winter.