MODERN HOUSEHOIJD COOKERY. 124 STEWED CABP. 243. Ii^-GEEDIENTS.-—1 carp, salt, stock No. 10-5, 2 onions, 6 cloves, 12 peppercorns, 1 blade of mace, i pint of port wine, the juice of J lemon, cayenne and salt to taste, a faggot of savoury herbs. Mode.—Scale the fish, clean it nicely, and, if very large, divide it; lay it in the stewpan, after having rubbed a little salt on it, and put in sufficient stock to cover it; add the herbs, onions, and spices, and stew gently for 1 hour, or rather more, should it be very large. Dish up the fish with great care, strain the liquor, and add to it the port wine, lemon-juice, and cayenne; give one boil, pour it over the fish, and serve. Time,—\\ honr. Average cost. Seldom bought. Seasonable from March to October. JSiffficient for 1 or 2 persons. Note.—This fish can be boiled plain, and served with parslej'- and butter. Chub and Char may bo cooked in the same manner as the above, as also Dace and Roach. The Age oi' Carp.—This fish has been found to live 150 years. The pond in the garden of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, contained one that had lived there 70 years, and Gesner mentions an instance of one 100 years old. They are, besides, capable of being tamed. Dr. Smith, in his ** Tour on the Continent," says, in reference to the prince of Conde's seat at ChantiUy, *' The most pleasing things about it were the immense shoals of very large carp, silvered over with age, like silver-fish, and perfectly tame ; so that, when any passengers approached their watery habitation, they used to come to the shore in sucii numbers as to heave each other out of the water, begging for bread, of which a quantity was always kept at hand, on purpose to feed them. They would even allow themselves to be handled." THE CHXTB. TUB CHAE. The Chub.—This fish takes its name from its head, not only in England, but in othei countries. It is a river-fish, and resembles the carp, but is somewhat longer. Its flesh is not in much esteem, being coarse, and, when out of season, full of small hairy bones The head and throat are the best parts. The roe is also good. The Chae.—This is one of the most deHcious of fish, being esteemed by some superiot to the salmon. It is an inhabitant of the deep lakes of mountainous countries. Its flesh is rich and red, and full of fat. The largest and best kind is found in the lakes oi "Westmoreland, and, as it is considered a rarity, it is often potted and preserved. The Dace, or Dare.—This fish is gregarious, and is seldom above ten inches louji; although, according to Linnaeus, it grows a foot and a half in length. Its haunts are in deep water, near piles of bridges, where the stream is gentle, over gravelly, sandy, or clayey bottoms; deep holes that are shaded, water-lily leaves, and under the foam caused by an eddy. In the warm months they are to be found in shoals on the shallows near to streams. They are in season about the end of April, and graduaUy improve till