MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 5C0 arranged on the dish in the form of a pineapple, and, so served, has a very pretty appearance. Time.—From 9 to 12 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, Is. id. per peck. Sufficient.—KWovr between 40 and 50 for 5 or 6 persons. Seasoiiahle from November to March. Savots and Brussels Sprouts.—When the Green Kale, or Borecole, has been advanced a step further in the path of improvement, it assumes the headed or hear tin character, with blistered leaves ; it i^ then known by the name of Savoys and Brussels Sprouts. Another of its headed forms, but with smooth glaucous leaves, is the cultivated Cabbage of our gardens (the Borecole oleracea capitula of science); and all its varieties of green, red, dwarf, tall, early, late, round, conical, flat, and all the forms into which it is possible to put it. TO BOIIi YOTJITG GEEEITS Oil SPKOUTS. 1097. Ingredients.—To each ^ gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonfiil of salt; a very small piece of soda. Mode,—Pick away all the dead leaves, and wash the greens well in cold water; drain them in a colander, and put them into fast-boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion. Keep them boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered, until tender; and the moment they are done, take them up, or their colour will be spoiled; when well drained, serve. The great art in cooking greens properly, and to have them a good colour, is to put them into plenty oi fast-boiling water, to let them boil very quickly, and to take them up the moment - they become tender. BRUSSELS Ti}ne.—Bvocoli sprouts, 10 to 12 minutes; young SPROUTS. greens, 10 to 12 minutes; sprouts, 12 minutes, after the water boils. Seasonable.—Sprouts of various kinds may be had all the year. Green Kale, or Borecole.—When Colewort, or Wild Cabbage, is brought into a state of cultivation, its character becomes greatly improved, although it still retains the loose open leaves, and in this form it is called Green Kale, or Borecole. The scientific name is Borecole oleracea acejphala, and of it there are many varieties, both as regards the form and colour of the leaves, us well as the height which the plants attain. We may observe, that among them, are included the Thousand-headed, and the Cow or Tree Cabbage. BOILED CABBAGE. 1098. Ingeedients.—To each 4 gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; a very small piece of soda. Mode.—Yick, off all the dead outside leaves, cut off as much of the stalk as possible, and cut the cabbages across twice, at the stalk end; if they should be very large, quarter them. Wash them well in cold