MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEHT. 672 sistency of thick batter. Put the pudding into a buttered pie-dish, ond bake for 1§ hour, or rather longer. Turn it out of the dish, strevi sifted sugar over, and serve. This is a very plain recipe, and suitable where there is a family of children. It, of course, can be much im- proved by the addition of candied peel, currants, and rather a largei proportion of suet: a few eggs would also make the pudding richer. 2rmc.—Ij hour. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasoncible in winter. IntrodtjctiOjNT of Sugar.—Sugar was first known as a drug, aud used by ilic apotlie- caries, and witli them vras a most important article. At its first appearance, some said it was heating; others, that it injured the chest; others, that it disposed persons to apoplexy; the truth, however, soon conquered these fancies, and the use of sugar has increased every day, and there is no household in the civilized world which can do without it. BOILED BAISI2T PUDDII^G-. {Plain and Economical.) 1337. Ikgeediei?ts.—1 lb. of flour, h lb. of stoned raisins, i lb. of chopped suet, | saltspoonful of salt, milk. Mode.—MiQx having stoned the raisins and chopped the suet finely, mix them with the flour, add the salt, and when these dry ingredients are thoroughly mixed, moisten the pudding with sufiicient milk to make it into rather a stiff paste. Tie it up in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil for 1 hours : serve v/ith sifted sugar. This pudding may, also, be made in a long s?iape, the same as a rolled jam- pudding, and will then not require so long boiling;—2\ hours would then be quite sufficient. Time.—Made round, 4 hours ; in a long shape, 2l hours. Average cost, dd. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonahle in winter. BOILED BHUBAKB PUDDOTG-. 1338. Ikgeedients.—4 or 5 sticks of fine rhubarb, 1 lb. of moist sugar, I lb. of suet-crust No. 1215. ilfof^^?.—Make a suet-crust with f lb. of flour, by recipe InTo. 1215, and line a buttered basin with it. ash and wipe the rhubarb, and, if old, string it—that is to say, pare off the outside skin. Cut it into inch lengths, fill the basin with it, put in the sugar, and cover with crust. Pinch the edges of the pudding together, tie over it a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil from 2 to 2-i- hours. Turn it out of the basin, and serve with a jug of cream and sifted sugar, Time.~2 to 2J hours. Average cost, 7d, Sifficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasojiahle in spring.