519 VEGETABLES. matter passes into organic, is almost totally regarded as futile. In a layer of an onion, a fig, a section of garden rhubarb, in some species of aloe, in tho bark of many trees, and in portions of tho cuticle of the medicinal squill, bun- dles of these needle-shaped crystals are to be found. Some of them are as large as l-40th of an inch, others are as small as the 1-lOOOth. They are found in all parts of the plant,—in tho stem, bark, leaves, stipules, petals, fruit, i-oots, and even in the pollen, with some few exceptions, and they are always situated in the interior of cells. Some plants, as many of the cactus tribe, are made up almost entirely of these needle-crystals; in some instances, every cell of the cuticle contains a stellate mass of crystals ; in others, the whole interior is full of them, rendering the plant so exceedingly brittle, that the least touch will occasion a fracture ; so much so, that some specimens of Caches seniiis, said to be a thousand years old, which were sent a few years since to Kew, from South America, were obliged to be packed in cotton, with all the care of the most delicate jewellery, to preserve them during transport. 1076. Besides the Cellular Tissue, there is what is called a vascular sj'stem, which consists of another set of small vessels. If, for example, we, early in the spring, cut a branch transversely, we will perceive the sap oozing out from numerous points over the whole of the divided surface, except on that part occupied by the pith and tho bark; and if a twig, on which the leaves are already unfolded, be cut from the tree, and placed with its cut end in a watery solution of Brazil-wood, the colouring matter will be found to ascend into the leaves and to the top of the twig. In both these cases, a close examination with a powerful microscope, will discover the sap perspiring from the divided portion of the stem, and the colouring matter rising through real tubes to the top of the twig ; these are the sap or conducting vessels of the plant. If, however, we examine a transverse section of the vine, or of any other tree, at a later period of the season, we find that the wood is apparently dry, whilst tho bark, particularly that part next the wood, is swelled with Hmd. This is contained in vessels of a different kind from those in which the sap rises. They are found in the hark only in trees, and may be called re- turning vessels, from their carrying the sap downwards after its preparation in the leaf. It is believed that the passage of the sap in plants is conducted in a manner jDrecisely similar to that of the blood in man, from the regular contraction and expansion of the vessels; but, on account of their extreme minuteness, it is almost an impossibility to be certain upon this point. Nume- rous observations made with the microscope show that their diameter seldom exceeds a 290th part of a hne, or a 3,000th part of an inch. Leuwenhoeck ixjckoned 20,000 vessels in a morsel of oak about one nineteenth of an inch square. 1077. In the Vascular System of a Plant, we at once see tho great analogy which it bears to the veins and arteries in the human system ; but neither it, nor the cellular tissue combined, is all that is required to perfccb the production of a vegetable. There is, besides, a tracheal system, which