212 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, alternately, filling up with the above quantity of water; tie down the jar, or put a plate over the top, so that the steam may not escape; place it in the oven, and let it remain there from 6 to 8 hours ; should, however, the oven be very hot, less time will be required. When sufliciently cooked, strain the gravy, and when cold, remove the fat. It may be flavoured with ketchup, T\^ines, or any other store sauce that may be preferred; It is a good plan to put the jar in a cool oven over-night, to draw the gravy; and then it will not require so long baking the following day. Time. — From 6 to 8 hours, according to the oven. Average costy Id. per pint. Celery.—As in the above recipe, tlie roots of celery are principally used in England for flavouring soups, sauces, and gravies, and for serving with cheese at the termination of a dinner, and as an ingredient for salad. In Italy, however, the green leaves and stems are also employed for stews and soups, and the seeds are al o more frequently made use of on the continent than in our own islands. In Germany, celery is ve.ry highly esteemed; and it is there boiled and served up as a dish by itself, as well as used in the composition of mixed dishes. We ourselves tliink that this mild aromatic plant might oftener be cooked than it is; for there are very few nicer vegetable preparations brought to table than a well-dressed plate of stewed celery. VEAIi GRAVY- FOB WHITE SAUCES, FEIOASSEES, &c. 442. Ingeedients.—2 slices of nicely flavoured lean ham, any poultry trimmings, 3 lbs. of lean veal, a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, a few green onions (or 1 large onion may be substituted for these), a few mushrooms, when obtainable ; 1 blade of mace, salt to taste, 3 pints of water. Mode.—Cut up the ham and veal into small square pieces, put these in a stewpan, moistening them with a small quantity of water ; place them over the fire to draw down. When the bottom of the stewpan becomes covered with a white glaze, fill up with water in the above proportion; add the remaining ingredients, stew very slowly for 3 or 4 hours, and do not forget to skim well the moment it boils. Put it by, and, when cold, take ofi* all the fat. This may be used for Be- chamel, sauce tournee, and many other white sauces. Tinie.—Z or 4 hours. Average cost, 9d. per pint. CHEAP aRAVY FOR MOTCED VEAL. 443. Ingeediekts.—Bones and trimmings of cold roast or boiled veal, li pint of water, 1 onion, $ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, I teaspoonful of salt, 1 blade of pounded mace, the juice of i lemon ; thickening of butter and flour.