1009 DUTIES or THE LAUNDRT-MAID. 2374. Adjoining the bleaching-house, a second room, about the same size, is required for ironing, drying, and mangling. The contents of this room should comprise an ironing-board, opposite to the light; a strong "white deal table, about twelve or fourteen feet long, and about three and a half feet broad, \yith drawers for ironing-blankets ; a mangle in one corner, and clothes-horses for drying and airing ; cupboards for holding the various irons, starch, and other arfcicles used in ironing ; a hot-plate built in the chimney, with furnace be- neath it for heating the irons; sometimes arranged with a flue for carrying the hot air round the room for drying. Where this is the case, however, thero should be a funnel in the ceiling for ventilation and carrying off steam ; but a better arrangement Is to have a hot-air closet adjoining, heated by hot-air pipes, and lined with iron, with proper arrangements for carrying off steam, and clothes-horses on castors running in grooves, to run into it jfor drying purposes. This leaves the laundry free from unwholesome vapour. 2375. The laundry-maid should commence her labours on Monday morning by a careful examination of the articles committed to her care, and enter them in the washing-book ; separating the white linen and collars, sheets and body- linen, into one heap, fine muslins into another, coloured cotton and linen fabrics into a third, woollens into a fourth, and the coarser kitchen and other greasy cloths into a fifth. Every article should be examined for ink- or grease-spots, or for fruit- or wine-stains. Ink-spots are removed by dipping the part into hot water, and then spreading it smoothly on the hand or on the back of a spoon, pouring a few drops of oxalic acid or salts of sorel over the ink-spot, rubbing and rinsing it in co^d water- till removed ; grease-spots, by rubbing over with' yellow soap, and rinsing in hot water ; fruit- and wine-spots, by dipping in a solution of sal ammonia or spirits of wine, and rinsing. 2376. Every article having been examined and assorted, the sheets and fine linen should be placed in one of the tubs and just covered with lukewarm water, in which a little soda has been dissolved and mixed, and left there to soak till the morning. The greasy cloths and dirtier things should be laid to soak in another tub, in a liquor composed of | lb. of unslaked lime to every 6 quarts of water which has been boiled for two hours, then left to settle, and strained off when clear. Each article should be rinsed in this liquor to wet it tho- roughly, and left to soak till the morning, just covered by it when the things are pressed together. Coppers and boilers should now be filled, and the fires laid ready to light. 2377. Early on the following morning the fires should be lighted, and as soon as hot water can be procured, washing commenced; the sheets and body-hnen being wanted to whiten in the morning, should be taken first; each article being removed in succession from the lye in w^hich it has been soaking, rinsed, rubbed, and wrung,, and laid aside until the tub is empty, when the foul water is drawn off. The tub should be again filled with luke- warm water, about 80% in which the articles should again be plunged, and 3 T