750 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, AIT EASY WAY OP MAKING A TIPSY CAKE. 1488. Ingredients.—12 stale small sponge-cakes, raisin wine, ^ lb. of jam, 1 pint of custard No. 1423. luode,—Soak tlie sponge-cakes, whicli should be stale (on this account they should be cheaper), in a little raisin wine; arrange them on a deep glass dish in four layers, putting a layer of jam between each, and pour round them a pint of custard, made by recipe Xo. 1423, decorating the top with cut preserved fruit. Twie.—2 hours to soak the cakes. Avey^age cost, 2s. Q,d Sufficient for 1 dish. Seasonable at any time. TO MAKE A TBIFLE 14S9. iKGnEDiENTS.—For the whip, 1 pint of cream, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, the whites of 2 eggs, a small glass of sherry or raisin Vvine. For the trifie, 1 pint of custard, made with 8 eggs to a pint of milk ; 6 small sponge-cakes, or 6 slices of sponge-cake ; 12 maca- roons, 2 dozen ratafias, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, the grated rind of 1 lemon, a layer of raspberry or strawberry jam, J pint of sherry or svreet wine, 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—The whip to lay over the top of the trifle should be made the day before it is required for table, as the flavour is better, and it is much more solid than when prepared the same day. Put into a large bowl the pounded sugar, the v/hites of the eggs, vvhicli should be beaten to a stiff froth, a glass of sherry or sweet wine, and the cream. Yf hisk these ingredients well in a cool place, and take ofl" the froth with a skimmer as fast as it rises, and put it on a sieve to drain ; continue the whisking till there is sufficient of the whip, which must be put away in a cool place to drain. The next day, place the sponge-cakes, macaroons, and ratafias at the bottom of a trifle-dish; pour over them | pint of sherry or sweet wine, mixed with 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy, and, should this proportion of. wine not be found quite sufficient, add a little more, as the cakes should be well soaked. Over the cakes put the grated lemon-rind, the sweet almonds, blanched and cut into strips, and a layer of raspberry or strawberry jam. Make a good custard by recipe Ko. 1423, using 8 instead of 5 eggs to the pint of milk, and let this cool a little ; then pour it over the cakes, (S:c. The whip being made the day previously, and the trifle prepared, there remains nothing to do