MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 782 pot, and freeze in tlie same manner as directed for Ice Pudding, No. 1290, taking care to stir the cream, &c., two or three times, and to remove it from the sides of the vessel, that the mixture may be equally frozen and smooth. Ices are usually served in glasses, but if moulded, as they sometimes are for dessert, must have a small quan- tity of melted isinglass added to them, to enable them to keep their shape. Easpberry, strawberry, currant, and all fruit ice-creams, are made in the same manner. A little pounded sugar sprinkled over the fruit before it is mashed assists to extract the juice. In winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable, a little jam may be substituted for it: it should be melted and worked through a sieve before being added to the whipped cream; and if the colour should not be good, a little pre- pared cochineal or beetroot may be put in to improve its appearance. Time.—i hour to freeze the mixture. Average cost^ with cream at Is. per pint, 4«?. each ice. Seasonahhf with fresh fruit, in June, July, and August. TO MAKE PBUIT-WATER ICES. 1556. Ingredients.—To every pint of fruit-juice allow 1 pint of syrup made by recipe No. 1513. Mode,—Select nice ripe fruit; pick off the stalks, and put it into a large earthen pan, with a little pounded sugar strewed over ; stir it about with a wooden spoon until it is well broken, then rub it through a hair sieve. Make the syrup by recipe 1^0. 1513, omitting the white of the egg; DISH OP ICES. it cool, add the fruit-juice, mix well together, and put the mixture into the freezing-pot. Proceed as directed for Ice Paddings, iNo. 1290, and when the mixture is equally frozen, put it into small glasses. Raspberry, strawberry, currant, and other fresh-fruit-water ices, are made in the same manner. Ti7ne,—i hour to freeze the mixture. Average costf Sd. to 4d. each. Seasonable, with fresh fruit, in June, July, and August. LEMOW-WATER ICE. 1557- Ingredients.—To every pint of syrup, made by recipe No. 1513, allow ^ pint of lemon-juice; the rind of 4 lemons. 3Iode.—Rub the sugar on the rinds of the lemons, and with it make the syrup by recipe No. 1513, omitting the white of egg. Strain the lemon-juice, add it to the other ingredients, stir well, and put the mixture into a freezing-pot. Freeze as directed for Ice Pudding, No.