MODERN nOUSI^ilOLD COOKERY, flour; put in the other ingredients, and let it boil for 2 minutes. Serve PICKLED MACKEBEL. a83, Ingeedients.—12 peppercorns, 2 bay-leaves, i pint of vinegar, 4 mackerel, 3Iode.—Boil the mackerel as in the recipe No. 282, and lay them in a dish; take half the liquor they were boiled in; add as much vinegar, peppercorns, and bay-leaves; boil for 10 minutes, and when cold, pour over the fish. Time.—\ hour. u4.verage cost, Is. Qd. Mackehel Gaeum.—This brine, so greatly esteemed.by tbe ancients, %vas manufactured from various kinds of fislies. When, mackerel was employed, a few of them were placed in a- small vase, with a large quantity of salt, which was well stirred, and then left to settle for some hours. On the following day, this was put into an earthen pot, which was uncovered, and placed in a situation to get the rays of tlie sun. At the end of two or three months, it was hermetically sealed, after having had added to it a quantity of old wine, equal to one third of the mixture. GBEY MIJLIiST. 284. Ikgeedients.—J lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—If the fish be very large, it should be laid in cold water, and gradually brought to a boil; if small, put it in boiling water, salted in the above proportion. Serve with anchovy sauce and plain melted butter. Time.—According to size, \ to f hour. Average cost, Sd. per lb. Seasonable from July to October. The Grey Mullet.—This is quite a different fish from the red mullet, is abundant on the sandy coasts of Great I3ritain, and ascends rivers for miles. On the south coast it is very plentiful, and is considered a fine fish. It improves more than any other salt-water fish- when kept in ponds, BED MULLET. 285. Ii?-GEEDiEi7TS.—Oiled paper, thickening of butter and flour, h teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 glass of sherry; cayenne and salt to taste. J/oc?^.—Clean the fish, take out the gills, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and bake them gently. When done, take the liquor that flows from the fish, add a thickening of butter kneaded with the sauce in a tureen, and the fish, either with or without the paper cases. Time.—About 25 minutes. Average cost, Is. each. Seasonable at any time, but more plentiful in summer. iVofc^.—Red mullet may bo broiled, and should be folded iu oiled paper, the THE GEEY MULLET.