7m MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. oranges remain until dry, when they will have the appearance of balls of ice. They make a pretty dessert or supper dish. Care must be taken not to have the oven too fierce, or the oranges would scorch and acquire a brown colour, which would entirely spoil their appearance. Time.—From J to 1 hour to dry in a moderate oven. Average cost, l\d. each. Sufficient,— \ lb. of sugar to ice 12 oranges. Seasonable from November to May. The Fibst Ora.nge-tkej5 m Fbattce.—The first Orange-tree cultivated in the centra of France was to be seen a few years ago at Fontainebleau. It was called Le Connetable (the Constable), because it had balonj^^ed to the Connetable de Bourbon, and had been confiscated, together with all property belonging to that prince, after his revolt against his sovereign. COMPOTE OF OBAISTGES. 15^5. Ifghebieitts.—1 pint of syrup No. 1512, 6 oranges. Jfbc/g.—Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as pos- sible, and divide them into small pieces without breaking the thin skin with which they are surrounded. Make the syrup by recipe No. 1512, adding the rind of the orange cut into thin narrow strips. When the syrup has been well skimmed, and is quite clear, put in the pieces of orange, and simmer them for 5 minutes. Take them out carefully with a spoon without breaking them, and arrange them on a glass dish. Reduce the syrup by boiling it quickly until thick; let it cool a little, pour it over the oranges, and, when cold, they will be ready for table. Time.—10 minutes to boil the syrup; 5 minutes to simmer the oranges; 5 minutes to reduce the syrup. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. f Seasonable from November to May. The Orange in Poetugat,.—The Orange known under the name of "Portugal Orange" comes originally from China. Not more than two centuries ago, the Portuguese brought thence the lirst scion, which has multiplied so prodigiously that we now see entire forests of orange-trees in Portugal. Orange and Cloves.—It appeai-s to have been the custom formerly, in England, to make new year's presents with oranges stuck full with cloves. We read in one of Ben . Jonson's pieces,—the "Christmas Masque,"—" He has an orange and rosemary, but not a clove to stick in it." OBAUGE MABMALADE. I. 1566. Ingredients.—Equal weight of fine loaf sugar and Seville oranges ; to 12 oranges allow 1 pint of water. Jfof/e.-—Let there be an equal weight of loaf sugar and Seville