59 FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Apple.—This useful fruit is mentioned in Holy Writ; and Homer describes it as valuable in his time. It was brought from the East by the Eomans, who held it in the highest estimation. Indeed, some of the citizens of the "Eternal city" distinguished certain fa- vourite apples by their names. Thus the Manlians were called after Manlius, the Claudians after Claudius, and the Appians after Appius. Others were designated after the country whence they were brought; as the Sidonians, the Epirotes, and the Greeks. The best varieties are natives of Asia, and have, by grafting them upon others, been inft-oduced into Europe. The crab, found in our hedges, is the only variety indigenous to Britain; therefore, for the introduction of other kinds we are, no doubt, indebted to the Eomans. In the time of the Saxon heptarchy, both Devon and Somerset were distinguished as the apple countrrj ; and there are still existing in Herefordshire some trees said to have been planted in the time of William the Conqueror. From that time to this, the varieties of this precious fruit have gone on increasing, and are now said to number up- wards of 1,500. It is peculiar to the temperate zone, being found neither in Lapland, nor within the tropics. The best baking apples for early use are the Colvilles; the best for autumn are the rennets and pearmains; and the best for winter and spring are russets. The best table, or eating apples, are the Margarets for early use; the Kentish codlin and summer pearmain for summer; and for autumn, winter, or spring, the Dowton, golden and other pippins, as the ribstone, with small russets. As a food, the apple cannot be considered to rank high, as more than the half of it consists of water, and the rest of its properties are not the most nourishing. It is, however, a useful adjunct to other lands of food, and, when cooked, is esteemed as slightly laxative. APPLE AIvD BLOSSOM. ARTICHOKE (JERUSALEM) SOUP. {A White Soup.) 112. Ingredients.—3 slices of lean bacon or ham, i a head of celery, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 3 oz. of butter, 4 lbs. of artichokes, 1 pint of boiling milk, or i pint of boiling: cream, salt and cayenne to taste, 2 lumps of sugar, 2i quarts of white stock. 3Iode.—Put the baoon and vegetables, which should be cut into thin slices, into the stewpan with the butter. Braise these for | of an hour, keeping them well stirred. "Wash and pare the artichokes, and after cutting them into thin slices, add them, with a pint of stock, to the other ingredients. When these have gently stewed down to a smooth pulp, put in the remainder of the stock. Stir it well, adding the seasoning, and when it has simmered for five minutes, pass it through a strainer. Now pour it back into the stewpan, let it again simmer five minutes, taking care to skim it well, and stir it to the boiling milk or cream. Serve with small sippets of bread fried ia butter. Time.—\ hour. Average cost per quart, Is. 2d. Seasonable from June to October.