HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 3081 oonsist of arrowroot, or gruel for the first fpw days^ and then of weak broth or becf-tea for some time after. 2655. When very strong fumes of smelling-salts have in any way been inhaled, there is great difficulty of breathing, and alarming pain in the mouth and nostrils. In this case let the patient inhale the steam of warm vinegar, and treat the feverish symptoms as before. 2656. Arsenic.—Mostly seen under the form of white arsenic, or fly-powder, and yellow arsenic, or king's yellow.—Symptoms produced in those who have siuallotved it. These vary very much, according to the form and dose in which the poison has been taken. There is faintness, depression, and sickness, with ^ an intense burning pain in the region of the stomach, which gets worse and "worse, and is increased by pressure. There is also vomiting of dark brown matter, sometimes mixed with blood; and mostly great thirst, with a feeling of tightness round, and of burning in, the throat. Purging also takes place, the matters brought away being mixed with blood. The pulse is small and irregular, and the skin sometimes cold and clammy, and at others hot. The breathing is painful. Convulsions and spasms often occur.—Treatment. Give a couple of teaspoonfuls of mustard in a glass of water, to bring on or assist vomiting, and also use the other means elsewhere recommended for tho purpose. A solution, half of lime-water and half of linseed-oil, well mixed, may be given, as well as plenty of arrowroot, gruel, or linseed-tea. Simple milk is also useful. A little castor-oil should be given, to cleanse the intes- tines of all the poison, and the after-symptoms treated on general principles. 2657. Corrosive Sullimate.—Mostly seen in the form of little heavy crystal- line masses, which melt in water, and have a metallic taste. It is sometimes seen in powder. This is a most powerful poison.—Sym])toms. These mostly come on immediately after the poison has been taken. There is a coppery taste experienced in the act of swallowing, with a burning heat, extending from the top of the throat down to the stomach ; and also a feeling of great tightness round the throat. In a few minutes great pain is felt over the region of the stomach, and frequent vomiting of long, stringy white masses, mixed with blood, takes place. There is also mostly great purging. The counte- nance is generally pale and anxious ; the pulse always small and frequent; tho skin cold and clammy, and the breathing difficult. Convulsions and insen- sibility often occur, and are very bad symptoms indeed. The inside of tho mouth is more or less swollen.—Treatment. Mix the whites of a dozen eggs in two pints of cold water, and give a glassful of the mixture every three or four minutes, until the stomach can contain no more. If vomiting does not now come on naturall}'-, and supposing the mouth is not very sore or much swollen, an emetic draught. No. 1, may be given, and vomiting induced. (The No. 1 draught, we remind our readers, is thus made :—Twenty gi'ains of sulphate of zinc in an ounce and a half of water; the draught to be repeated if vomiting does not take place in a quarter of an hour.) After the stomach has been well cleaned out, milk, flour-and-water, linseed-tea, or barley-water,