866 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY.. WheA-T is liable to several diseases, which affect the flour made from it, and render it uufit for good bread. The principal of these are the Wight, mildew, and smut, which are occasioned by microscopic fungi, which sow themselves and grow upon the stems and ears, destroying the nutritive principles, and intro- ducing matter of a deleterious kind. The farmer is at the utmost pains to keep away these intruders. Wheat, as well as all kinds of corn, is also ver^ liable to be injured by being stacked before it is quite dry ; in which ease it will heat, and become musty in the ricks. In wet harvests it is sometimes impossible to get it sufficiently dried, and a great deal of corn is thus often spoiled. It is generally reckoned that the sweetest bread is made from wheat threshed out before it is stacked; which shows the importance of studying tha best modes of preserving it. The erudite are not agreed as to the aboriginal country of corn: some say it is Egypt, others Tartary; and the learned Bailly, as well as the traveller Pallas, affirms that it grows spontaneously in Siberia. Be that as it may, the Phociaus brought it to Marseilles before the Komans had penetrated into Gaul. The Gauls ate the corn cooked or bruised in a mortar : they did not know, for a long time, how to make fermented bread. SCOTCH SHOBTBBEAD. 1780. IiTGREDiENTS.—2 Ibs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, i lb. of pounded loaf sugar, i oz. of caraway seeds, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, a few strips of candied orange-peel. Mode.—Jjevit the butter to a cream, gradually dredge in the flour, and add the sugar, caraway seeds, and sweet almonds, which should be blanched and cut into small pieces. Yiork the paste until it is quite smooth, and divide it into six pieces. Put each cake on a separate piece of paper, roll the paste out square to the thickness of about an inch, and pinch it upon all sides. Prick it well, and ornament with one or two strips of candied orange-peel. Put the cakes into a good oven, and bake them from 25 to 30 minutes. Time.—Id to 30 minutes. Average cost^ for this quantity, 2.9 Sufficient to make 6 cakes. Seasonahle at any time. J^ote.—Where the flavour of the caraway seeds is disliked, omit them, and add rather a larger pro|)ortion of candied peel. SODA-CAKE. 1781. Inguedients.—i lb. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, i lb. of currants, I lb. of moist sugar, 1 teacupful of milk, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda. il/oiZe.—Rub the butter into the flour, add the currants and sugar, and mix these ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs well, stir them to the flour, &c., with the milk, in which the soda should be pre- viously dissolved, and beat the whole up together with a wooden spoon or beater. Divide the dough into two pieces, put them into buttered