MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 520 Seasonable from September to the end of February. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonalle from September to the end of February. The Haee.—This little aUE HAKE. ,niinal is found generally distributed over Europe, and, indeed, in most parts of tlie northern v/orld. Its extreme timidity is the en- dowment which Providence has bestowed \^pon it as a means of defence; it is therefore attentive to every sound, and is supplied with ears both long and tubular, with which it can hear with great acuteness. Its eyes, also, are so constructed, and placed so i^rominent in its head, that it can see both before and behind it. It lives entirely upon vege- tables, but its flesh is considered dry, notwithstanding that it is deemed, in many respects, superior to that of tlio rabbit, being more savoury, and of a much higher flavour. Its general time of feeding is the evening ; but during tho day, if not disturbed, it adheres closely to iiBform. POTTED HAIIE (a Lunclieon or Breakfast Disli). 1028. Ikckedients.—1 bare, a few slices of bacon, a large bunch of savoury herbs, 4 cloves, \ teaspoonful of whole allspice, 2 carrots, 2 onions, salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of water, 2 glasses of sherry. 3'Iode,—Skin, empty, and wash the hare ; cut it down the middle, and put it into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon under and over it; add the remaining ingredients, and stew very gently until the hare is tender, and the flesh will separate easily from the bones. When done enough, take it up, remove the bones, and pound the meat, ivitli the hacon, in a mortar, until reduced to a perfectly smooth paste. Should it not be sufficiently seasoned, add a little cayenne, salt, and pounded mace, but be careful that these are well mixed with the other ingredients. Press the meat into potting-pots, pour over clarified butter, and keep in a dry place. The liquor that the hare was stewed in, should be saved for hashes, soups, &c. &c. Time—Khont 2A hours to stew the hare. Seasonable from September to the end of February. BROIIjED HABE (a Supper or Luncheon Disli). 1029. Inghedients.—The leg and shoulders of a roast hare, cayenno and salt to taste, a little butter. 3Iode.—Q\x.t the legs and shoulders from a roast hare, season them highly with salt and cayenne, and broil them over a very clear fire for 5 minutes. Dish them on a hot dish, rub over them a little cold butter, and send to table very quickly. Time,—5 minutes.