87 MEATj POULTRT, AND GAME SOUPS. let them burn. "When this is done, pour to it the water, and as the scum rises, take it off; when no more appears, add all the other ingredients, and let the soup simmer slowly by the fire for 6 hours without stir- ring it any more from the bottom; take it off, and let it settle ; skim off all the fat you can, and pass it through a tammy. "When perfectly cold, you can remove all the fat, and leave the sediment untouched, which serves very nicely for thick gravies, hashes, &c. Time.—7 hours. Average costy Is. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 14 persons. Endive.—This plant belongs to tte acetarious tribe of vege- tables, and is supposed to have originally come from China and \ii^u-_'>jr Japan. It was known to the ancients; but was not introduced /JjF" to England till about the middle of the 16th century. It is consumed in large quantities by the French, and in London,— in the neighbourhood of whicli it is grown in abundance ;— ENDIVE, it is greatly used as a winter salad, as weU as in soups and stews. HABE SOUP, I. 170. Ingeedients.—A hare fresh-killed, 1 lb. of lean gravy-beef, a slice of ham, 1 carrot, 2 onions, a faggot of savoury herbs, ^ oz. of whole black pepper, a little browned flour, i pint of port wine, the crumb of two French rolls, salt and cayenne to taste, 3 quarts of water. Mode—Skin and paunch the hare, saving the liver and as much blood as possible. Cut it in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with all the ingredients, and simmer gently for 8 hours. This soup should be made the day before it is wanted. Strain through a sieve, put the best parts of the hare in the soup, and serve. OR, II. Proceed as above ; but, instead of putting the joints of the hare in the soup, pick the meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar, and add it, with the crumb of two French rolls, to the soup. Rub all through a sieve; heat slowly, but do not let it boil. Send it to table immediately. Time.—8 hours. Average costy Is, 9d. per quart. Seasonable from September to February, Siofficient for 10 persons.