218 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. raisins, 4 oz. of cayenne, 4 oz. of powdered ginger, 2 oz. of garlic, 2 oz. of shalots, 3 quarts of vinegar, 1 quart of lemon-juice. Mode.—Chop the apples in small square pieces, and add to them the other ingredients. Mix the whole ¥/ell together, and put in a well-covered jar. Keep this in a warm place, and stir every day for a month, taking care to put on the lid after this operation; strain, but do not squeeze it dry ; store it away in clean jars or bottles for use, and the Jiquor will serve as an excellent sauce for meat or fish. Seasonahle.—Make this sauce when tomatoes are in full season, that is, from the beginning of September to the end of October. Pickles.—The ancient G-reelcs and Eonians held their pickles in high estimation. They consisted of flowers, herbs, roots, and vegetables, preserved in vinegar, and which were kept, for a long time, in cylindrical vases with wide mouths. Their cooks prepared pickles with the greatest care, and the various ingredients were macerated in oil, brine, and vinegar, with which they were often impregnated drop by drop. Meat, also, after having been cut into very small pieces, was treated in the same manner. ITALIAN- SATJCB (Brown). 453. Ingeedients.—A few chopped mushrooms and shalots, i pint of stock, No. 105, i glass of Madeira, the juice of ^ lemon, i teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mode.—Vxkt the stock into a stewpan with the mushrooms, shalots, and Madeira, and stew gently for | hour, then add the remaining ingredients, and let them just boil. When the sauce is done enough, put it in another stewpan, and warm it in a lain marie. {See No. 430.) The mushrooms should not be chopped long before they are wanted, as they will then become black. Time.—J hour. Average cost^ for this quantity, 7d, Sufficient for a small dish. ITALIAH SAUCE (V/Mte). 454. Ij^'GEEDients.—i pint of white stock, No. 107; 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped shalots, 1 slice of ham, minced very fine; J pint of Bechamel, No. 367 ; salt to taste, a few drops of garlic vinegar, \ teaspoonful of pounded sugar, a squeeze of lemon-juice. Mode.—Put the shalots and mushrooms into a stewpan with the stock and ham, and simmer very gently for i hour, v/hen add the Bechamel. Let it just boil up, and then strain it through a tammy; season with the above ingredients, and serve very hot. If this sauce should not have retained a nice white colour, a little cream may be added.