POULTRY. 487 Time.—k very young rabbit, -2- bour; a large one, f hour; an old one, 1 hour or longer. Average cost, from Is. to Is. 6d. eacb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to February. The Rabbit,—Thougli this animal is an inhabitant of most temperate climates, it does not reach so far north as the hare. The wild rabbit is a native of Great Britain, and is found in large numbers in the sandy districts of Norfolk and Cambridgeshire. Its flesh is, by some, considered to have a' higher flavour than that of the tame rabbit, although it is neither so white nor so delicate. The animal, however, becomes larger and fatter in the tame than in the wild state; but it is not desirable to have it so fat as it can be made. CUBRIED BABBIT 978. Ikgeedients.—1 rabbit, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 pint of stock No. 104, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of musbroom powder, tbe juice of 4 lemon, i lb. of rice. IlQcie.—'Em^tYf skin, and wash tbe rabbit tboroughly, and cut it neatly into joints. Put it into a stewpan with tbe butter and sliced onions, and let tbem acquire a nice brown colour, but do not allow tbem to blacken. Pour in tbe stock, which should be boiling; mix the curry powder and flour smoothly with a little water, add it to the stock, with the mushroom powder, and simmer gently for rather more than i hour ; squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve in the centre of a dish, with an edging of boiled rice all round. Where economy is studied, w-ater may be substituted for the stock; in this case, the meat and onions must be very nicely browned. A little sour apple and rasped cocoa-nut stewed with the curry will be found a great improvement. Time,—Altogefhev f hour. Average cost, from Is. to is. 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonahle in winter. The Common ok Wild Eabbit.—Warrens, or inclosures, are frequently made in favourable locaHties, and some of them are so large as to comprise 2,000 acres. The common wild rabbit is of a grey colour, and is esteemed the best for the purposes of food. Its skin is valuable as an article of commerce, being used for the makirjg of hats. Another variety of the rabbit, however, called the " silver-grey," has been lately introduced to this country, and is still more valuable. Its colour is a black ground, thickly interspersed with grey hairs; and its powers as a destroyer and consumer of vegetable food are well known to be enormous, especially by those who have gardens in the vicinity of a rabbit-warren. wild eaebit3.