EOVSEEOLD MAXAGEME^'T. afterwards well wiped with a cloth or rag kept fon; the purpose. If it can be avoided, never wash the chimneys of a larap, as it causes them to crack when they become hot. Small sticks, covered with wash-leather pads, are the best things to use for cleauing the glasses inside, and a clean duster for polishing the outside. The globe of a moderator lamp should be occasionally washed in warm soap-and-water, then well rimed i:i cold water, and either wiped di*y or left to drain. Where candle-lamps are used, take out the springs occasionally, and free them well from the grease that adheres to them. 2179. French polish, so universally applied to furniture, is easily kept in condition by dusting and rubbing with a soft cloth, or a rubber of old silk; but dining-tables can only be kept in order by hard rubbing, or rather by quick rubbing, which warms the wood and removes all spots. 2180. Brushing clothes is a very simple but very necessary operation. Fine cloths require to be brushed lightly, and with rather a soft brush, except where mud is to be removed, when a hard one is necessary, being previously beaten lightly to dislodge the dirt. Lay the garment on a table, and brush it in the direction of the nap. Having brushed it properly, turn the sleeves back to the collar, so that the folds may come at the elbow-joints; next tuim the lappels or sides back over the folded sleeves; then lay the skirts over level with the collar, so that the crease may fall about the centre, and double one half over the other, so as the fold comes in the centre of the back. 2 i8i. Ilavinjr got through his dirty work, the single footman has now to clean himself and prepare the breakfast. He lays the cloth on the table ; over it the breakfast-cloth, and sets the breakfast things in order, and then proceeds to wait upon his master, if he has any of the duties of a valet to perform. -2182. Where a valet is not kept, a portion of his duties falls to the footman's share,—^brushing the clothes among others. \Vlicn the hat is silk, it requires brushing every day with a soft brush ; after rain, it requires wiping the way of the nap before drying, and, when nearly dry, brushing with the soft brush and with the hat-stick in it. If the footman is required to perform any part of a valet's duties, he v^ill have to see that the housemaid lights a fire in the dressing-room in due time ; that the room is dusted and cleaned ; that the washhand-ewer is filled with soft water; and that the bath, whether hot or cold, is ready when required ; that tow^els are at hand ; that hair- brushes and combs are properly cleansed, and in their places ; that hot vrater is ready at the hour ordered ; the dressing-gown and slippers in their place, the clean linen aired, and the clothes to be worn for the day in their proper places. After the master has dressed, it will be the footman's duty to restore everything to its place properly cleansed and dry, and the whole restored to order. 2183. At breakfast, when there is no butler, the footman carries up the tea- urn, and, assisted by the housemaid, he waits during breakfast. Breakfast over, he removes the tray and other things off the table, folds up the breakfast- cloth, and sets the room in order, by sv/eeping up all crumbs, shaking the cloth, and laying it on the table again, making up the fire, and sweeping up the hearth. 2184. At luncheon-time nearly the same routine is observed, except v/hero the footman is either out v/ith the carriage or av.^ay on other bushiess, when, in the absence of any butler, the housemaid must assist.