254 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. USriVEBSAIi PICKLE. 533. IxGREDiENTS.—To 6 quarts of vinegar allow 1 lb. of salt, i lb. of ginger, 1 oz. of mace, i lb. of sbalots, 1 tablespoonful of cayenne, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, li oz. of turmeric. Ilode.—Boil all the ingredients together for about 20 minutes; when cold, put them into a jar with whatever vegetables you choose, such as radish-pods, French beans, cauliflowers, gherkins, &c. &c., as these come into season; put them in fresh as you gather them, having previously wiped them perfectly free from moisture and grit. This pickle will be fit for use in about 8 or 9 months. Thne.—20 minutes. Seasonahle.—lsleike the pickle in May or June, to be ready for the various vegetables. Note.—As tills pickle takes 2 or 3 months to make,—that is to say, nearly that time will elapse before all the different vegetables are added,—care must bo taken to keep the jar which contains the pickle well covered, either with a closely-fitting lid, or a piece of bladder securely tied over, so as perfectly to exclude the air. PICKLED WALNUTS (Very Good). 534- Ikgeedients.—100 walnuts, salt and water. To each quart of vinegar allow 2 oz. of whole black pepper, 1 oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of bruised ginger. Mode.—Procure the walnuts while young ; be careful they are not woody, and prick them well with a fork ; prepare a strong brine of salt and vrater (dibs, of salt to each gallon of water), into which put the walnuts, letting them remain 9 days, and changing the brine every third day; drain them off, put them on a dish, place it in the sun until they become perfectly black, which will be in 2 or 3 days ; have ready dry jars, into which place the walnuts, and do not quite fill the jars. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, for 10 minutes, with spices in the above proportion, and pour it hot over the walnuts, which must be quite covered with the pickle; tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place. They will be fit for use in a month, and will keep good 2 or 3 years Time.—10 minutes. Seasonable.—Make this from the beginning to the middle of July, before the walnuts harden. Note.—When liked, a few shalots may be added to the vinegar^ and boiled with it.