40 MODERN HOTJSEHOLD COOKERY. terms of indecision sliould be banished from his art. Accordingly, what is known only to him, will, in these pages, be made known to others. In them all those indecisive terms expressed oy a bit of this, some of that, a small piece of that, and a handful of the other, shall never be made use of, but all quantities be precisely and explicitly stated. With a desire, also, that all ignorance on this most essential part of the culinary art should disappear, and that a uniform system of weights and measures should be adopted, we give an account of the weights which answer to certain measures. A Table-spoonful is frequently mentioned in a recipe, in the prescriptions of medical men, and also in medical, chemical, and gastronomical works. By it is generally meant and understood a measure or bulk equal to that which would be produced by half an ounce of water. A Dessert-spoonful is the half of a table-spoonful; that is to say, by it is meant a measure or bulk equal to a quarter of an ounce of water, A Tea-spoonful is equal in quantity to a drachm of water. A Drop.—This is the name of a vague kind of measure, and is so called on account of the liquid being dropped from the mouth of a bottle. Its quantity, hov/ever, will vary, either from the consistency of the liquid or the size and shape of the mouth of the bottle. The College of Physicians determined ^^^^^ the quantity of a drop to be one grain, 60 drops making r - "f one fluid drachm. Their drop, or sixtieth part of a fluid j ; drachm, is called a minim. i|j : Graduated glass measures can be obtained at any chemist's, and , I : they save much trouble. One of these, containing a wine pint, is jll ; divided into 16 oz., and the oz. into 8 drachms of water; by which |, - J any certain weight mentioned in a recipe can be accurately measured ^sep*^ out. Home-made measures of this kind can readily be formed by ,^^g^^;;^,_i;;»»^ 1,^ weighing the water contained in any given measure, and marking on any tall glass the space it occupies. This mark can easily be Fig. 22. made with a file. It will be interesting to many readers to know the basis on which the French found their system of weights and measures, for it certainly possesses the grandeur of simplicity. The metre, which is the basis of the whole system of French weights and measures, is the exact measurement of one forty-millionth part of a meridian of the earth. ^8. Excellence in the Art of Cookery, as in all other things, is only attain- able by practice and experience. In proportion, therefore, to the opportunities wliich a cook has had of these, so will be his excellence in the art. It is in the large establishments of princes, noblemen, and very affluent families alone, that the man cook is found in this country. He, also, superintends the kitchens of large hotels, clubs, and public institutions, where he, usually, makes out the bills of fare, which are generally submitted to the principal for approval. To be able to do this, therefore, it is absolutely necessary that he should be a judge of the season of every dish, as well as know perfectly the state of every article he undertakes to prepare. He must also be a judge of every article he buys ; for no skill, however great it may be, will enable him to make that good which is really bad. On him rests the responsibility of the cooking generally, whilst a speciality of his department, is to prepare the rich soups, stews, ragouts, and such dishes as enter into the more refined and