592 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Average cost, 9d. for a salad for 5 or 6 persons; but more expensive when the herbs are forced. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. $0 Seasonable from May to Septem- ber. CTJCTJMBEB-SLICl. CuCTJMBEES.—The cucumber is refreshing, but neither nutritious nor digestible, and should be excluded from the regimen of the delicate. There are various modes of preparing cucum- bers. When gathered young, they are called gherkins: these, pickled, are much used in seasonings. Eadishes.—This is the common name given to the root of the Haphanus safivus, one of the varieties of the cultivated horseradish. There are red and white radishes ; and the French have also what they call violet and black ones, of which the black are the larger. Eadishes are composed of nearly the same constituents as turnips, that is to say, mostly fibre and nitrogen; and, being generally eaten raw, it is on the last of these that their flavour depends. They do not agree with people, except those who are in good health. and have active digestive powers; for they are difficult of digestion, and cause flatulency and wind, and are the cause of headaches when eaten to excess. Besides being eaten raw, they are sometimes, but rarely, boiled; and they also serve as a pretty garnish for salads. In China, the radish may be found growing naturally, without cultivation; and may be occasionally met with in England as a weed, in similar places to where the wild turnip grows ; it, however, thrives best in the garden, and the" ground it Ukes best is a deep open loam, or a well-manured sandy soil. WINTER SALAD. 1153. iNaEEDiENTS.—Endive, mustard-and-cress, boiled beetroot, I 3 or 4 hard-boiled eg-gs, celery* Mode.—The above ingredients form the principal constituents of a winter salad, and may be converted into a very pretty dish, by nicely contrasting the various colours, and by tastefully garnishing it. Shred the celery into thin pieces, after havings carefully washed and cut away all wormeaten pieces; cleanse the endive and mustard-and-cress free from grit, and arrange these high in the centre of a salad-bowl or dish; garnish with the hard-boiled eggs and beetroot, both of which should be cut in slices ; and pour into the dish, but not over the salad, either of the sauces No. 506, 507, or 508. Never dress a salad long before it is required for table, as, by standing, it loses its fresh- ness and pretty crisp and light appearance; the sauce, however, may TTBNIP EADISHES. LONG EADISHES.