MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEHY. thoroughly hot, and when on the point of simmering:, serve. Should the beans be very large, the skin should be removed previously to boiling them. Tune—10 minutes to boil the beans, 15 minutes to stew them in the stock. Average cost^ unshelled, 6c?. per peck. Seasonable in July and August. Origin and Varieties of the Bean.—This valuable plant is said to be a native of Egypt, but, like otber plants which have been domesticated, its origin is uncertain. It has been cultivated in Europe and Asia from time immemorial, and has been long known in Britain. Its varieties may be included under two general heads,—the white, or garden beans, and the grey, or field beans. Of the former, sown in the fields, the mazagan and long-pod are almost the only sorts; of the latter, those known as the horse-bean, the small or ticks, and the prolific of Heligoland, are the principal sorts. New varieties are procured in the same manner as in other plants. BOILSD BEHTKOOT. 1094. Ingredients.—Beetroot; boiling water. Ilode.—When large, young, and juicy, this vegetable makes a very excellent addition to winter salads, and may easily be con- verted into an economical and quickly-made pickle. {See 'No. 369.) Beetroot is more frequently served cold than hot: Tvhen the latter mode is preferred, melted butter should be sent to table with it. It may also be stewed with button onions, or boiled and served with roasted onions. Wash the beets thoroughly; but do not prick or break the skin before they are cooked, or they would lose their beautiful colour in boiling. Put them into boiling water, and let them boil until tender, keeping them well covered. If to be served hot, remove the peel quickly, cut the beetroot into thick slices, and send to table melted butter. For salads, pickle, &c., let the root cool, then peel, and cut it into slices. T^??2e.—Small beetroot, to 2 hours ; large, 2^ to 3 hours. Average cost, in full season, 2c?. each. Seasonable,—May be had at any time. Beetroot.—The geographical distribution of the order Saltworts (Salsolacece), to which beetroot belongs, is most common in extra-tropical and temperate regions, where they are common weeds, frequenting waste places, among rubbish, and on marshes by the seashore. In the tropics they are rare. They are characterized by the large quan- tity of mucilage, sugar, starch, and alkahne salts which are found in them. Many of them are used as potherbs, and some are emetic and vermifuge in their medicinal pro- perties. The root of garden or red beet is exceedingly wholesQme and nutritious, and Dr. Lyon Playiair has recommended that a good brown bread may be made by rasping down this root with an equal quantity of flour, lie says that the averiige quality of flour contains about 12 per cent, of azotized principles adapted for the formation of flesh, and the average quality of beet contains about 2 per cent, of the same materials.