MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 62G SuJJicient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. very large. "When it is three-parts done, take it out of the oven, put the white of an egg on a plate, and, with the blade of a knife, whisk it to a froth ; brush the pie over with this, then sprinkle upon it some sifted sugar, and then a few drops of water. Put the pie back into the oven, and finish baking, and be particularly careful that it does not catch or burn, v/hich it is very liable to do after the crust is iced. If made with a plain crust, the icing may be omitted. Time.—\ hour before tl^e crust is iced; 10 to 15 minutes afterwards. Average cost^ ^d, ^ufftcient.—Allow 2 lbs. of apples for a tart for 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March; but the apples become flavour- less after February. Note.—Manj^ things are suggested for the flavouring of apple pie; some say 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of beer, others the same quantity of sherry, which very much improve the taste; whilst the old-fashioned addition of a few cloves is, by many persons, preferred to anything else, as also a few slices of quince. Quinces.—The environs of Corinth originally produced the most beautiful quinces, but the plant was subsequently introduced into Gaul with the most perfect success. The ancients preserved the fruit by placing it, with its branches and leaves, in a vessel tilled with honey or sweet wine, which was reduced to half the quantity by ebullition. Quinces may be profitably cultivated in this country as a variety with other fruit-trees, and may be planted in espaliers or as standards. A very fine-flavoured marmalade may be prepared from quinces, and a small por- tion of quince in apple pie much improves its flavour. The French use quinces for flavouring many sauces. This fruit has the remarkable peculiarity of exhaling an agreeable odour, taken singly; but when in any quantity, or when they are stowed away in a drawer or close room, the pleasant aroma becomes an intolerable stench, although the fruit may be perfectly sound; it is therefore desirable that, as but a few quinces'^ are required for keeping, they should be kept in a high and dry loft, and out of the vvay of the rooms used by the family. CBEAMED APPLE TABT. 1234. iFaREDTENTS.—Puff-crust IMo. 1205 or 1206, apples ; to every lb. of pared and cored apples, allow 2 oz. of moist sugar, \ teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, i pint of boiled custard. Mode.~lidk.Q an apple tart by the preceding recipe, with tlie ex- ception of omitting the icing. When the tart is baked, cut out the middle of the lid or crust, leaving a border all round the dish. Fill up with a nicely-made boiled custard, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the pie is ready for table. This tart is usually eaten cold ; is rather an old-fashioned dish, but, at the same time, extremely nice. Time~l to f hour. Average cost. Is. 3d,