SAUCES^ ETC. 207 GKESlSr SAUCE FOR GREEN GEESE OR DUCKLINGS. 431. Ingeedients.—I pint of sorrel-juice, 1 glass of slierry, ^ pint of green gooseberries, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 oz. of fresh butter. Mode.—Boil the gooseberries in water until they are quite tender ; mash them and press them through a sieve; put the pulp into a saucepan with the above ingredients; simmer for 3 or 4 minutes, and serve very hot. Time.—Z or 4 minutes. Note.—We have given this recipe as a sance for green geese, thinking that some of our readers might sometimes require it; but, at the generality of fashionable tables, it is now seldom or never served. SoEREL.—We gather from the pages of Pliny and Api- cius, that sorrel was cultivated by the Eomans in order to give it more strength and flavour, and that they also partook of it sometimes stevred with mustard, being seasoned with a little oil and vinegar. At the present day, English cookery is not much indebted to this plant (Rumex Ace- tosa), although the French make use of it to a considerable SOriiel. extent. It is found in most parts of G-reat Britain, and also on the continent, groAving wild in the grass meadows, and, in a few gardens, it is culti- vated. The acid of sorrel is very ^roMomce, and is what chemists term a binoxalate of potash; that is, a combination of oxalic acid with potash. GENERAL STOCK FOR GRAVIES. 432. Either of the stocks, Nos. 104, 105, or 107, will be found to answer very well for the basis of many gravies, unless these are s!wanted very rich indeed. By the addition of various store sauces, thickening and flavouring, the stocks here referred to may be con- verted into very good gravies. It should be borne in mind, however, that the goodness and strength of spices, wines, flavourings, &c.^ evaporate, and that they lose a great deal of their fragrance, if added to the gravy a long time before they are wanted. If this point is attended to, a saving of one half the quantity of these ingredients will be eliected, as, with long boiling, the flavour almost entirely passes away. The shank-bones of mutton, previously well soaked^ will be found a great assistance in enriching gravies; a kidney or melt, beef skirt, trimmings of meat, &c. &c., answer very well vv^hen only a small quantity is wanted, and, as we have before observed, a good gravy need not necessarily be so very expensive ; for economi- cally-prepared dishes are oftentimes found as savoury and wholesom.e as dearer ones. The cook should also remember that the fragrance of gravies should not be overpowered by too much spice, or any strong essences, and that they should always be warmed in a ham may-ie, aftei