£12 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. canliflower or braised cabbage cut in quarters. Thicken as inueh gravy as required, with a little butter and flour; add spices and ]-:etchup in the above proportion, give one boil, pour some of it over the meat, and the remainder send in a tureen. Time.—Rather more than 3 hours. Average cost, 7d. per lb, Sufficiejit for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remainder of the liquor in which the beef was boiled may bo served as a soup, or it may be sent to table with the meat in a tureen. STEWED BUMP OS* BEEF. 670. Ikgeedients.—i rump of beef, sufhcient stock to cover it (In 0. 105), 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 1 large bunch of savoury herbs, 2 onions, 12 cloves, pepper and salt to taste, thickening of butter and flour, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.—Cut out the bone, sprinkle the meat with a little cayenne (this must be sparingly used), and bind and tie it flrmly up with tape ; put it into a stewpan with sufiicient stock to cover it, and add vinegar, ketchup, herbs, onions, cloves, and seasoning in the above proportion, and simmer very gently for 4 or 5 hours, or until the meat is perfectly tender, which may be ascertained by piercing it with a thin skewer. When done, remove the tape, lay it into a deep dish, which keep hot; strain and skim the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, add a glass of port v/ine and any flavouring to make the gravy rich and palatable ; let it boil up, pour over the meat, and serve. This dish may be very much enriched by garnishing vrith forcemeat balls, or filling up the space whence the bone is taken with a good forcemeat; sliced carrots, turnips, and onions boiled v/ith the meat, are also a great improvement, and, where expense is not objected to, it may be glazed. This, however, is not necessary where a good gravy is poured round and over the meat. T{7ne.—I rump stewed gently from 4 to 5 hours. Average cost, lOfZ. per lb. Su^.cient for 8 or 10 persons, Seasonable at any time. Note.—K stock or gravy in which to boil the meat, may be made of the bone and trimmings, by boiling them with water, and adding carrots, onions, turnips, and a bunch of sweet herbs. To make this dish richer and mora savoury, half-roast the rump, and afterwards stew it in strong stock and a little Madeira. This is an expensive method, and is not, after all, much better than a plainer-dressed joint. The Baeon- of Beef.—This noble joint, which consisted of two sirloins not cut asunder, was a favourite dish of our ancestors. It is rarely seen nowadays; indeed, it seems ouu of place on a modern table, us it requires the grim boar's Lead and Cnristmaa p^e as