892 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. with teetli of an extinct felis about the size of a leopard, with those of a bear, and with remains of a large cervus. These mammalian remains were found with the ordinary fossils of the red crag: they had undergone the same process of trituration, and were impregnated with the same colouring matter as the associated bones and teeth of fishes acknowledged to be derived from the regular strata of the red crag. These mammali- ferous beds have been proved by Mr. Lyell to be older than the lluvio-marine, or Norwich crag, in which remains of the mastodon, rhinoceros, and horse have been discovered j an(f still older than the fresh-water pleistocene deposits, from which the remains of the mammoth, rhinoceros, &c. are obtained in such abundance. I have met," says the professor, in addition, "with some satisfactory instances of the association of fossil remains of a species of hog with those of the mammoth, in the newer pliocene fresh« ■waterformations of England." TO DBY PIGS' CHEEKS. 830. Ikgredients.—Salt, i oz. of saltpetre, 2 oz. of bay-salt, 4 cz. of coarse sugar. 3fode—C\it out the snotit, remove the brains, and split the head, taking ofp the upper bone to make the jovv^l a good shape ; rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the fol- lowing day; cover the head with saltpetre, bay-salt, and coarse sugar, in the above proportion, adding a little common salt. Let the head be often turned, and when it has been in the pickle for 10 days, smoke it for a week or rather longer. Time.—To remain in the pickle 10 days; to be smoked 1 week. Seasonable.—Should be made from September to March. Note.—A pig's cheek, or Eatli chap, will take about 2 hours after the water boils. PIG'S IjIVER (a Savoury and Economical Dish). 831. Ingeedients.—The liver and lights of a pig, 6 or 7 slices of bacon, potatoes, 1 large bunch of parsley, 2 onions, 2 sage-leaves, pepper and salt to taste, a little broth or water. Ilode—Slide the liver and lights, and wash these perfectly clean, and parboil the potatoes; mince the parsley and sage, and chop the onion rather small. Put the meat, potatoes, and bacon into a deep tin dish, in alternate layers, with a sprinkling of the herbs, and a seasoning of pepper and salt between each ; pour on a little water or broth, and bake in a moderatelj-heated oven for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours. Average cost^ Is. Qd. Si(fficie7it for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from September to March. PIG'S PETTITOES. 832. Ikgbedients.—A thin slice of bacon, 1 onion, i blade of mace, 6 peppercorns, 3 or 4 sprigs of thyme, 1 pint of gravy, pepper and salt to taste, thickening of butter and flour.