1017 EEABING, ETC., OF CHILDREN. points, the gum should be cut lengthwise, and from the top of the gum down- wards to the tooth, in an horizontal direction, thus , and for about half an inch in length. The operation is then to be repeated in a transverse direction, cutting across the gum, in the centre of the first incision, and forming a cross, thus +. The object of this double incision is to insure a retraction of the cut parts, and leave an open way for the tooth to start from—an advantage not to be obtained when only one incision is made ; for unless the tooth immediately follows the lancing, the opening reunites, and the operation has to be repeated. That this operation is very little or not at all painful, is evidenced by the sud- denness with which the infant falls asleep after the lancing, and awakes in apparently perfect health, though immediately before the use of the gum- lancet, the child may have been shrieking or in convulsions. Convulsions, or Infantine Fits. 2519. From their birth till after teething, infants are more or less subject or liable to sudden fits, which often, without any assignable cause, will attack the child in a moment, and while in the mother's arms ; and which, according to their frequency, and the age and strength of the infant, are either slight or dangerous. 2520. Whatever may have been the remote cause, the immediate one is some irritation of the nervous system, causing convulsions, or an effusion to the head, inducing coma. In the first instance, the infant cries out with a quick, short scream, rolls up its eyes, arches its body backwards, its arms become bent and fixed, and the fingers parted ; the lips and eyelids assume a dusky leaden colour, while the face remains pale, and the eyes open, glassy, or staring. This condition may or may not be attended with muscular twitchings of the mouth, and convulsive plunges of the arms. The fit generally lasts from one to three minutes, when the child recovers with a sigh, and the relaxation of the body. In the other case, the infant is attacked at once with total insensi- bility and relaxation of the limbs, coldness of the body and suppressed breath- ing ; the eyes, when open, being dilated, and presenting a dim glistening appearance ; the infant appearing, for the moment, to be dead. 2521. Treatment.—The first step in either case is, to immerse the child in a hot bath up to the chin ; or if sufficient hot water cannot be procured to cover the body, make a hip-bath of what can be obtained; and, while the left hand supports the child in a sitting or recumbent position, with the right scoop up the water, and run it over the chest of the patient. When sufficient water can be obtained, the spine should be briskly rubbed while in the bath ; when this cannot be done, lay the child on the knees, and with the fingers dipped in brandy, rub the whole length of the spine vigorously for two or three minutes, and when restored to consciousness, give occasionally a tea- spoonful of weak brandy and water or wine and water. 2522. An hour after the bath, it may be necessary to give an aperient