MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. celebrated in his day, and the recipient of a gold medal from a learned society, says, " The best method is as follows :—The chickens are to be taken from the hen the night after they are hatched, and fed with eggs hard-boiled, chopped, and mixed with crumbs of bread, as larks and other small birds are fed, for the first fortnight; after which give them oatmeal and treacle mixed so as to crumble, of which the chickens are very fond, and thrive so fast that, at the end of two months, they will be as large as full-grown fowls." Others there are who insist that nothing beats oleaginous diet, and cram their birds with ground oats and suet. But, whatever the course of diet favoured, on one point they seem agreed; and that is, that, while fattening, the fowls should he Tcept in the dark. Supposing the reader to be a dealer,—a breeder of gross chicken-meat for the market (against which supposition the chances are 10,000 to 1), and beset with as few scruples as generally trouble the huckster, the advice is valuable. *' l^augh and grow fat" is a good maxim enough j but Sleep and grow fat" is, as is well known to folks of porcine attributes, a better. The poor birds, immured in their dark dungeons, ignorant that there is life and sunshine abroad, tuck their heads under their wings and make a long night of it; while their digestive organs, having no harder work than to pile up fat, have an easy time enough. But, unless we are mistaken, he who breeds poultry for lus own eating, bargains for a more substantial reward than the questionable pleasure of burying his carving-knife in chicken grease. Tender, deUcate, and nutritious fiesh is the great aim; and these qualities, I can affirm without fear of contradiction, were never attained by a dungeon-fatted chicken; perpetual gloom and darkness is as incompatible with chicken life as it is wdth human. If you wish to be convinced of the absurdity of endeavouring to thwart nature's laws, plant a tuft of grass, or a cabbage- plant, in the darkest corner of your coal-cellar. The plant or the tuft may increase in length and breadth, but its colour will be as wan and pale, almost, as would be your own face under the circumstances. POULET A LA MABENGO. 949. Ingeedients.—1 large fowl, 4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 pint of stock No. 105, or water, about 20 mushroom-buttons, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a very small piece of garlic. Mode.—Cut the fowl into 8 or 10 pieces; put them with the oil into a stewpan, and brown them over a moderate fire ; dredge in the above proportion of flour; when that is browned, pour in the stock or water; let it simmer very slowly for rather more than | hour, and skim ofl" the fat as it rises to the top ; add the mushrooms; season with salt, pepper, garlic, and sugar; take out the fowl, which arrange pyramidically on the dish, with the inferior joints at the bottom. Eeduce the sauce by boiling it quickly over the fire, keeping it stirred until sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of a spoon; pour oyer the fowl, and serve. Altogether 50 minutes. Average cost, 3s. 6J. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. A Fowl a la Maeen-go.—The following is the origin of the well-known dish Poulet a la Marengo :—On the evening of the battle the first consul was very hungry after the agitation of the day, and a fowl was ordered with all expedition. The fowl was procured, but there was no butter at hand, and unluckily none could be found in the neighbourhood. There was oil in abundance, however; and the cook having poured a certain quantity into his skillet, put in the fowl, with a clove of garlic and other seasoning, with a little white wine, the best the country afforded; he then gar- nished it with mushrooms, and served it up hot. This dish proved the second conquest of the day, as the first consul found it most agreeable to his palate, and expressed hia satisfaction. Ever since, a fowl a la Marengo is a favourite dish with all lovers of gpocL cheer.