981 DUTIES OF THE LADY'S-MAID. To washL Brushes. -2250. Dissolve a piece of soda in some hot water, allv wing a piece the size of a wahmt to a quart of water. Put the water into a basin, and, after comb- iPig out the hair from the brushes, dip them, bristles downwards, into the water and out again, keeping the backs and handles as free from the water as possible. Repeat this until the bristles look clean ; then rinse the brushes in a little cold water ; shake them well, and wipe the handles and backs with a towel, hut not the Iristles, and set the brushes to dry in the sun, or near the fire ; but take care not to put them too close to it. Wiping the bristles of a brush makes them soft, as does also the use of soa^). To clean Combs. 2251. If it can be avoided, never wash combs, as the water often makes the teeth split, and the tortoiseshcll or horn of which they are made, rough. Small brushes, manufactured purposely for cleaning combs, may bo purchased at a trifling cost: with this the comb should be well brushed, and afterwards wiped with a cloth or towel. A good Wash, for the Hair. 2252. Ingredie^'TS.—1 pennyworth of borax, ^ pint of olive-oil, 1 pint of boiling water. 31 ode.—Pour the boiling Vv'ater over the borax and oil; let it cool; then put the mixture into a bottle. Shake it before using, and apply it with a flanne]. Camphor and borax, dissolved in boiling water and left to cool, make a very good wash for the hair ; as also does rosemary-water mixed with a little borax. After using any of these washes, when the hair becomes thoroughly dry, a little pomatum or oil should be rubbed in, to make it smooth and glossy. To make Pomade for the Hair. 2253. Ingredients.—^ lb. of lard, 2 pennyworth of castor-oil; scent. Mode.—Let the lard be unsalted; beat it up well; then add the castor-oil, and mix thoroughly together with a knife, adding a few drops of any scent that may be preferred. Put the pomatum into pots, which keep) well covered to prevent' it turning rancid. Another Recipe for Pomatum. 2254. Ingredients.—8 oz. of olive-oil, 1 oz. of spermaceti, 3 pennyworth of essential oil of almonds, 3 pennyworth of essence of lemon. Mode.—Mix these ingredients together, and store away in jars for use. To make Bandoline. 2255. Ingredients.—1 oz. of gum tragacanth, pint of cold water, 8 pennyworth of essence of almonds, 2 teaspoonfuls of old rum. Mode.—Put the gum-tragacanth into a wide-mouthed bottle with the cold water; let it stand till dissolved, then stir into it the essence of almonds ; let it remain for an hour or two, when pour the rum on the top. This should