8S9 BEVERAGES. 4 small ones, -I lb. of loaf sugar, 1 quart of boiling water. CHAMPAGNE-CUP. 1832. Ikgeedients.—1 quart bottle of champagne, 2 bottles of soda- water, 1 liqueur-glass of brandy or Cura^oa, 2 tablespoonfuls of pow- dered sugar, 1 lb. of pounded ice, a sprig of green borage. 3Iode,—Put all the ingredients into a silver cup; stir them together, and serve the same as claret-cup No. 1831. Should the above pro- portion of sugar not be found sufiicient to suit some tastes, increase the quantity. When borage is not easily obtainable, substitute for it a few slices of cucumber-rind. Seasonable,—Suitable for pic-nics, balls, weddings, and other festive occasions. ChampAGifE.—This, the most celebrated of French wines, is the produce chiefly of the province of that name, and is generally understood in England to be a brisk, eS'er- vesciug, or sparkling ^Yhite wine, of a very fine flavour; but this is only one of the varieties of this class. There is both red and white champagne, and each of these may be either still or brisk. There are the sparkling wines (7?ioz(5se«>r), and the still wines {non-moasseux). The brisk are in general t!ie most highly esteemed, or, at least, are the most popular in this country, on account of their delicate flavour and the agreeable pungency which they derive from the carbonic acid they contain, and to which they owe their briskness. GINGER BEER. 1833. Ingeelieis-ts.—2| lbs. of loaf sugar, li oz. of bruised ginger, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, 3 gallons of boiling water, 2 large tablespoonfuls of thick and fresh brewer's j^east. Mode.—Peel the lemons, squeeze the juice, strain it, and put the peel and juice into a large earthen pan, with the bruised ginger, cream of tartar, and loaf sugar. Pour over these ingredients 3 gallons of loiling water; let it stand until just vv^arm, when add the j-cast, which should be thick and perfectly fresh. Stir the contents of the pan well, and let them remain near the fire all night, coveriag the pan over with a cloth. The next day skim off the yeast, and pour the liquor carefully into another vessel, leaving the sediment; then bottle immediately, and tie the corks down, and in 3 days the ginger beer will be fit for use. For some tastes, the above proportion of sugar may be found rather too large, when it may be diminished ; but the beer will not keep so long good. Average cost for this quantity, 2s.; or Id. per bottle. Suaficient to fill 4 dozen ginger-beer bottles. Scasonahle.—Vni^ should be made during the summer months, LEMONADE. 1834. IxGEEDiENTS.—The rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 3 large or