127 risn. firmness, but not ill ricliness. Cleanse it thorouglily and cut oiT tlie fins; lay it in a lisli-kettle, cover with cold water, and add salt in the above proportion. Bring it gradually to a boil, and simmer gently for I hour, or rather longer, should the fish be very large. Serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon and parsley. Lobster, anchovy, or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter, should be sent to table with it. Time—MtQV the water boils, J to | hour, according to size. Average cost, 3s. to 6s, Seasonable ail the year, but best from September to January. JN'ote.—Small John Doric are very good, baked. The Doett, or John- Dory.—This fish is of a yellowish golden colour, and is, in general, rare, although it is sometimes taken in abundance on the Devon and Cornish coasts. It is highly the jokn dory. esteemed for the table, and its flesh, when dressed, is of a beautiful clear white. When fresh caught, it is tough, and, being a ground fish, it is not the worse for being kept two, or even three days before it is cooked. BOILED EELS. 249. Ingeedients.—4 small eels, sufficient water to cover them ; a large bunch of parsley. Mode,—Choose small eels for boiling; put them in a stewpan with the parsley, and just sufficient water to cover them; simmer till tender. Take them out, pour a little parsley and butter over them, and serve some in a tureen. Tt7ne.—J hour. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Eel Tribe.—The Apodal, or bony-gilled and ventral-finned fish, of which the eel forms the first Linn^an tribe, in their general aspect and manners, approach, in some instances, very nearly j to serpents. They have a smooth head and slip- ~ pery skin, are in general naked, or covered with SHch small, soft, and distant scales, as are scarcely visible. Their bodies are long and slender, and they are supposed to subsist entirely on animal Tl - • . Chore are about nine species of them, ™e eel. mostly found in the seas. One of them frequents our fresh waters, and three of the others occasionally pay a visit to our shores. STEV7ED EELS. I. 250. IiTGREDiENTS.—2 Ibs. of eels, 1 pint of rich strong stock,