112 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. other day that we read in the " Times'^ oi a wealthy living English hermit, who delights in the companionship of rats ! The modern Eomans are merged in the general name of Italians, who, with the exception of macaroni, have no specially characteristic article of food. 216. From Eome to Gaul is, considering the means of modern locomotion, no great way ; but the ancient sumptuary laws of that kingdom give us little information regarding the ichthyophagous propensities of its inhabitants. Louis XII. engaged six fishmongers to furnish his board with fresh-water animals, and Francis I. had twenty-two, whilst Henry the Great extended his requirements a little further, and had twenty-four. In the time of Louis XIV, the cooks had attained to such a degree of perfection in their art, that they could convert the form and flesh of the trout, pike, or carp, into the very shape and flavour of tUe most delicious game. The French long enjoyed a European reputation for their skiU and refinement in the preparing of food. In place of plain joints, French cookery delights in the marvels of what are caUed made dishes, ragouts, stews, and fricassees, in which no trace of the original materials of which they are compounded is to be found. 217. From Gaul we cross to Britain, where it has been asserted, by, at least, one authority, that the ancient inhabitants ate no fish. However this aiay be, we know that the British shores, particularly those of the North Sea, aave always been well supplied with the best kinds of fish, which we may .reasonably infer was not unknown to the inhabitants, or likely to be lost upon Uiem for the lack of knowledge as to how they tasted. By the time of Edward II., fish had, in England, become a dainty, especially the sturgeon, which was permitted to appear on no table but that of the king. In the fourteenth century, a decree of King John informs us that the people ate both seals and porpoises; whilst in the days of the Troubadours, whales were fished for and caught in the Mediterranean Sea, for the purpose of being used as human food. Whatever checks the ancient British may have had upon then* piscatory appetites, there are happily none of any great consequence upon the modern, who delight in wholesome food of every kind. Their taste is, perhaps, too much inclined to that which is accounted sohd and substantial; but they really eat more moderately, even of animal food, than either the French or the Germans. Eoast beef, or other viands cooked in the plainest manner, are, with them, a sufficient luxury; yet they delight in living ^cell, whilst it is easy to prove how largely their affections are developed by oven the prospect of a substantial cheer. In proof of this we will just observe, that if a great dinner is to be celebrated, it is not uncommon for the appointed stewards and committee to meet and have a preliminary dinner among themselves, in order to arrange the great one, and after that, to have another dinner to discharge the bill which the great one cost. This enjoyable disposition we take to form a very large item in the aggregate happiness of the nation. 218. The general Use op Fish, as an article of human food among civilized nations, we have thus sufficiently shown, and will conclude this portion of our subject with the following hints, which ought to be remembered by all those ViTho are fond of occasionally varying their dietary with a piscine dish:— I. Fish shortly before they spawn are, in general, best in condition. When the spawning is just over, they are out of season, and unfit for human food.