663 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. paste ; slightly press the two pieces together, brush them over with the egg, sift over sugar, and bake in a nice quick oven for about t hour. When they are done, make a little hole in the middle of the paste, and fill it up with apricot jam, marmalade, or red-currant jelly. Pile them high in the centre of a dish, on a napkin, and garnish with the same preserve the tartlets are filled with. Time,—\ hour or 20 minutes. Average cost^ with k lb. of pufi'-paste, Is. Sufficient for 2 dishes of pastry. Seasonahle at any time. I^ote.—lt should be borne in mind, that, for all dishes of small pastry, sucli as the preceding, trimmings of pufif-paste, left from larger tarts, answer as well as making the paste expressly. PUITS d'AMOUB, or PUFF-PASTE KINGS. 1321. Ingkedients.—Pufl^'-paste No. 1205, the white of an egg, sifted loaf sugar. iJfoc?^.—Make some good puff-paste by recipe No. 1205 ; roll it out to the thickness of about ^ inch, and, with a round fluted paste- cutter, stamp out as many pieces as may be required; then work the pasteup again, and roll it out to the same thickness, and with a smaller cutter, stamp out sufficient pieces to correspond with the larger ones. Again stamp out the centre of these smaller rings; brush over the others with the white of an egg, place a small ring on the top of every large circular piece of paste, egg over the tops, and bake from 15 to 20 minutes. Sift over sugar, put them back in the oven to colour them; then fill the rings with preserve of any bright colour. Dish them high on a napkin, and serve. So many pretty dishes of pastry may be made by stamping puff-paste out with fancy cutters, and filling the pieces, when baked, with jelly or preserve, that our space will not allow us to give a separate recipe for each of them ; but, as they are all made from one paste, and only the shape and garnish- ing varied, perhaps it is not necessary, and by exercising a little ingenuity, variety may always be obtained. Half-moons, leaves, diamonds, stars, shamrocks, rings, &c., are the most appropriate shapes for fancy pastry. Time.—15 to 25 minutes. Average cost, with ^ lb. of paste, Is, Sufficient for 2 dishes of pastry. Seasonahle at any time. PABADISE PXJDDma. 1322. Ingredients.—3 eggs, 3 apples, I lb. of bread crumbs, 3 oz, of sugar, 3 oz. of currants, salt and grated nutmeg to taste, the rind of 4 lemon, \ wineglassful of brandy.