PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 613 useful qualities of butter. The Eomans seem to have set about making it much as we do; for Pliuy tells us, " Butter is made from milk; and the use of this alinieut, so much sought after by barbarous nations, distinguished the rich from the common people. It is obtained princixjally from cows' milk; that from ewes is the fattest; goats also supply some. It is produced by agitating the milk in long vessels with narroAY openings: a little water is added." MEDIUM PUFF-PASTE. 1200. Ingeedieitts.—To every lb. of flour allow 8 oz. of butter, 4 oz. of lard, not quite ^ pint of water. 3Iocle.—This paste may be made by the directions in the preceding recipe, only using less butter and substituting lard for a portion of it. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with not quite J pint of water; then roll it out 3 times, the first time covering the paste with butter, the second with lard, and the third with butter. Keep the rolling-pin and paste slightly dredged with flour, to prevent them from sticking, and it will be ready for use. Average cost. Is. per lb. BuTTEE iif Haste.-—In his " History of Food," Soyer says that to obtain butter instantly, it is only necessary, in summer, to put new milk into a bottle, some hours after it has been taken from the cow, and shake it briskly. The clots which are thus formed should be thrown into a sieve, v,'ashed and pressed together, and they constitute the finest and most delicate butter that can possibly be made. COMMON PASTE, for Family Pies. 1207. In-geedients.—Ij lb. of flour, i lb, of butter, rather more than i: pint of water. 3fode.~Uuh the butter lightly into the flour, and mix it to a smooth paste with the water; roll it out 2 or 3 times, and it will be ready for use. This paste may be converted into an excellent short crust for sweet tart, by adding to the flour, after the butter is rubbed in, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine-sifted sugar. Average cost, Sd. per lb. To KEEP Butter Fbesh.—One of the best means to preserve butter fresh is, first to completely press out all the buttermilk, then to keep it under water, renewing the water frequently, and to remove it from the influence of heat and air, by wrapping it in a wet cloth. FUBlsTCH PUFF-PASTE, or PEUILIiETAGS. {Founded on M, Tide's Hecijoe.) ! 1208. Ingsedients.—Equal quantities of flour and butter—say 1 lb. of each ; ^ saltspoonful of salt, the yolks of 2 eggs, rather more than I pint of water. Mode.—Weigh the flour; ascertain that it is perfectly dr^, and sift it; squeeze all the water from the butter, and wring it in a clean cloth till there is no moisture remaining. Put the flour on the paste-board, work lightly into it 2 oz. of the butter, and then make a hole in the centre; into this well put the yolks of 2 eggs, the salt, and about