IGl FISH. them before the fire on a reversed sieve and soft paper, to absorb tlie fat. Particular attention should be paid to this, as nothing is more disagreeable than greasy fish: this may be always avoided by dress- ing them in good time, and allowing a few minutes for them to get thoroughly crisp, and free from greasy moisture. Dish them on a hot napkin, garnish with cut lemon and fried parsley, and send them to table with shrimp sauce and plain melted butter. Time.—10 minutes for large soles ; less time for small ones. Average cost, from Is. to 25. per pair. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. SOLES WITH MUSHROOMS. 328. INGREDIENTS.—1 pint of milk, 1 pint of water, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. salt, a little lemon-juice, 2 middling-sized soles. Mode,—Cleanse the soles, but do not skin them, and lay them in a fish-kettle, with the milk, water, butter, salt, and lemon-juice. Bring them gradually to boil, and let them simmer very gently till done, which will be in about 7 minutes. Take them up, drain them well on a cloth, put them on a hot dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. {See Sauces.) Time.—After the water boils, 7 minutes. Seasonahle at any time. Sufficient for 4 persons. SPBATS. 329. Sprats should be cooked very fresh, which can be ascertained by their bright and sparkling eyes. Wipe them dry; fasten them in-rows by a skewer run through the eyes; dredge with fiour, and broil them on a gridiron over a nice clear fire. The gridiron should be rubbed with suet. Serve very hot. Ti?7ie.—3 or 4 minutes. Average cost. Id. per lb. Seasonahle from !N"ovember to March. To Choose Sprats.—Choose these from their silvery appearraice, as th3 brighter they are, so are they the fresher. SPBATS PBIED IIST BATTZE. 330. Ingredients.—2 eggs, flour, bread crumbs; seasoning of salt and pepper to taste. 3Iode.—"Wipe the sprats, and dip them in a batter made of the abovs ingredients. Fry of a nice brown, serve very hot, and garnish with fried parsley. Sprats may be baked like herrings. {See No. 268.) M