82a MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Mode.—Put the flour and half the butter into a stewpan; stir them over the fire until the mixture thickens; pour in the milk, which should be boiling; add a seasoning: of pepper and salt, and simmer the whole for 5 minutes. Put the remainder of the butter into the sauce, and add the minced parsley; then boil the eggs hard, strip off the shells, cut the eggs into quarters, and put them on a dish. Bring the sauce to the boiling-point, add the lemon-juice, pour over the eggs, and serve. Time,—5 minutes to boil the sauce ; the eggs, 10 to 15 minutes. Average costy Is. fSiifficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. CEOTS AU PLAT, or AU MIBOIR, served on the Dish in v/liicii tliG3?- ?vre Cooked. 1661. IiraEEDiEiTTS.—4 eggs, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Butter a dish rather thickly with good fresh butter ; melt it, break the eggs into it the same as for poaching, sprinkle them with white pepper and fine salt, and put the remainder of the butter, cut into very small pieces, on the top of them. Put the dish on a hot plate, or in the oven, or before the fire, and let it remain until the whites become set, but not hard, when serve immediately, placing the dish they were cooked in on another. To hasten the cooking of the eggs, a salamander may be held over them for a minute ; but great care must be taken that they are not too much done. This is an exceedingly nice dish, and one very easily prepared for breakfast. jTme.—S minutes. Average cost, 5d. Sufficient for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. PliOVSES' EGGS. 1662. Plovers' eggs are usually served boiled hard, and sent to table in a napkin, either hot or cold. They may also be shelled, and served the same as eggs a la Tripe, with a good Bechamel sauce, or brown gravy, poured over them. They are also used for decorating salads, the beautiful colour of the white being generally so much admired. POACHED EGGS. 1663. Ingkedients.—Eggs, water. To every pint of water allow 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode.—Eggs for poaching should be perfectly fresh, but not quite new-laid; those that are about 36 hours old are the best for the purpose. If quite new-laid, the white is so milky it is almost impos-