713 CREAMS, JELLIE3, O.^ELETS, ETC. Shebrt.—There aro several Idnds of sherry, ns pale and bro^vn, and there arc various degrees of each. Sherry is, iu general, of an amber-colour, and, when good, has a lino aromatic odour, with something of the agreeable bitterness of the peach kernel. Wheu new, it is harsh and fiery, and requires to be mellowed in the wood for four or five years. Sherry has of late got much into fashion in England, from the idea that it is more tree from acid than other wines ; but some careful eiperiments on wines do not fully confirm this opinion. CAIfKEIiONS, or FRIED PUFFS. {Sweet Entremets.) 1417. IxGiiEDiEisis.—^ lb. of puff-paste Ko. 1205; apricot, or any kind of preserve that may be preferred ; hot lard. 3Iode.—Cannelons which are made of puff-paste rolled very thin, with jam inclosed, and cut out in long narrow rolls or puffs, make a very pretty and elegant dish. Make some good puff-paste, by re- cipe No. 1205; roll it out very thin, and cut it into pieces of an equal size, about 2 inches wide and 8 inches long ; place upon each piece a spoonful of jam, wet the edges with the white of egg, and fold the paste over twice ; slightly press the edges together, that the jam may not escape in the frying; and when all are prepared, fry them in boiling lard until of a nice brown, letting them remain by the side of the fire after they are coloured, that the paste may be thoroughly done. Drain them before the fire, dish on a d'oyley, sprinkle over them sifted sugar, and serve. These cannelons are very delicious made with fresh instead of preserved fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, or currants: it should be laid in the paste, plenty of pounded sugar sprinkled over, and f olded and fried in the same manner as stated above. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient—I lb. of paste for a moderate-sized dish of cannelons. Seasonable, with jam, at any time. CHABLOTTE-AUX-PCMMES. 1418. I]s■GREDIE^^T3.—A fcw sMcGS of rather stale bread A inch thick, clarified butter, apple marmalade made by recipe No. 1395, with about 2 dozen apples, J glass of sherry. 3fode,—Cut a slice of bread the same shape as the bottom of a plaia round mould, which has been well buttered, and a few strips the height of the mould, and about 1J inch wide ; dip the bread in clarified butter (or spread it with cold butter, if not wanted quite so rich); place the round piece at the bottom of the mould, and set the narrow strips up the sides of it, overlapping each other a little, that no juice from the apples may escape, and that chaklotte-aux-posimes. they may hold firmly to the mould. Brush the interior over with