DUTIES OF TIIi: FOOT'IAN. 2185. For dinner, the footrntyi lays the cloth, taking care that the table is not too near the fire, if there is one, and that passage-room is left. A table- cloth should be laid without a wrinkle ; and this requires two persons : over this the slips are laid, which are usually removed preparatory to placing dessert on the table. He prepares knives, forks, and glasses, with five or six plates for each person. This done, he places chairs enough for the party, distributing them equally on each side of the table, and opposite to each a napkin neatly folded, vrithin it a piece of bread or small roll, and a knife on the right side of each plate, a fork on the loft, and a carving-knife and fork at the top and bottom of the table, outside the others, with the rests opposite to them, and a gravy-spoon beside the knife. The fish-slice should be at the top, where the lady of the house, with the assistance of the gentle- man next to her, divides the fish, and the soup-ladle at the bottom : it is some- times usual to add a dessert-knife and fork ; at the same time, on the right side also of each plate, put a wine-glass for as many kinds of wine as it is in- tended to hand round, and a finger-glass or glass-cooler about four inches from the edge. The latter are frequently put on the table with the dessert. 2186. About half an hour before dinner, he rings the dinner-bell, where that is the practice, and occuj:>ies himself with carrying up everything he is likely to require. At the exjDiration of the time, having communicated with the cook, he rings the real dinner-bell, and proceeds to take it up with such assist- ance as he can obtain. Having ascertained that all is in order, that his own dress is clean and presentable, and his white cotton gloves are without a stain, he announces in the dravving-room that dinner is served, and stands respect- fully by the door until the company are seated : he places himself on the left, behind his master, w^ho is to distribute the soup; where soup and fish are served together, his place will be at his mistress's left hand ; but he must be on the alert to see that whoever is assisting him, whether male or female, are at their posts. If any of the guests has brought his own servant with him, his place is behind his master's chair, rendering such assistance to others as he can, while attending to his master's v/ants throughout the dinner, so that every guest has what he requires. This necessitates both activity and intelligence, and should be done without bustle, without asking any questions, except where it is the custom of the house to hand round dishes or wine, when it will be necessary to mention, in a quiet and unobtrusive manner, the dish or wine you present. 2187. Salfc-cellars should be placed on the table in number sufficient, for the guests, SO that each may help themselves, or, at least, their immediate neighbours. DiNITEBS A Li. IlussE. 31S8. In some houses the table is laid out with plate and glass, and ornamented with liowers, the dessert only being placed on the table, the dinner itself being placed on the sideboard, and handed round in succession, in courses of soup, lish, entrees, meat, game, and sweets. This is not only elegant but economical, as fewer dishes are required, the S3anmetry of the table being made up with the ornaments and dessert. The various dishes are olso handed round when hot; but it involves additional and superior attendance, as the wines are also hf.nded round; and unless the servants are very active and intelligent, many blunders are likely to be made. {See p. 954-.)