HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMEKT. 1096 circulation naturally. The insensible perspiration cannot escape well if the skin is not clean^ as the pores get choked up. It is said that in health about half the aliment we take passes out through the skin. 2690. The Tomato Medicinal.—To many persons there is something un- pleasant, not to say offensive, in the flavour of this excellent fruit. It has, however, long been used for culinary purposes in various countries of Europe. Dr. Bennett, a professor of some celebrity, considers it an invaluable article of diet, and ascribes to it very important medicinal properties. He declares :— 1. That the tomato is one of the most powerful deobstruents of the materia mecUca ; and that, in all those affections of the liver and other organs where calomel is indicated, it is probably the most effective and least harmful reme- dial agent known in the profession. 2. That a chemical extract can be ob- tained from it, which will altogether supersede the use of calomel in the cure of diseases. 3. That he has successfully treated diarrhoea with this article alone. 4. That when used as an article of diet, it is almost a sovereign remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion. 2691. Warm Water.—Warm water is preferable to cold water, as a drink, to persons v/ho are subject to dyspeptic and bilious complaints, and it may be taken more freely than cold water, and consequently answers better as a diluent for carrying off bile, and removing obstructions in the urinary secretion, in cases of stone and gravel. When water of a temperature equal to that of the human body is used for drink, it proves considerably stimulant, and is particularly suited to dyspeptic, bilious, gouty, and chlorotic subjects. 2692. Cautions in visiting Sick-Rooms.—Never venture into a sick-room if you are in a violent perspiration (if circumstances require your continuance there), for the moment your body becomes cold, it is in a state likely to absorb the infection, and give you the disease. Nor visit a sick person (especiall}'- if the complaint be of a contagious nature) with an emjoty stomach ; as this dis- poses the system more readily to receive the contagion. In attending a sick person, place yourself where the air passes from the door or window to the bed of the diseased, not betwixt the diseased person and any fire that is in the room, as the heat of the fire will draw the infectious vapour in that direction, and you would run much danger from breathing it. 2693. Necessity of good Ventilation in Rooms lighted with Gas.— In dwelling-houses lighted by gas, the frequent renewal of the air is of great importance. A single gas-burner will consume more oxygen, and produce more carbonic acid to deteriorate the atmosphere of a room, than six or eight candles. If, therefore, when several burners are used, no provision is made for the escape of the corrupted air and for the introduction of pure air from without, the health will necessarily suffer.