HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. Baths and Fomentations. 0599. All fluid applications to the body are exhibited either in a hot or cold form ; and the object for which they are administered is to produce a stimu- lating effect over the entire, or a part, of the system ; for the effect, though differently obtained, and varying in degree, is the same in principle, whether procured by hot or cold water. 2600. Heat.—There are three forms in which heat is universally applied to the body,—that of the tepid, warm, and vapour bath; but as the first is too inert to be worth notice, and the last dangerous and inapplicable, except in. public institutions, we shall confine our remarks to the really efiicacious and always attainable one—the 1601, Warm and Hot Bath.—These baths are used whenever there is con- gestion, or accumulation of blood in the internal organs, causing pain, difficulty of breathing, or stupor, and are employed, by their stimulating property, ta cause a rush of blood to the surface, and, by unloading the great organs, pro- duce a temporary inflammation in the skin, and so equalize the circulation. The efl"ect of the hot bath is to increase the fulness of the pulse, accelerate respira- tion, and excite perspiration. In all inflammations of the stomach and bowels, the hot bath is of the utmost consequence ; the temperature of the warm bath varies from 92° to 100°, and may be obtained by those who have no thermo- meter to test the exact heat, by mixing one measure of boiling with two of cold water. 2602. Fomentations are generally used to efiect, in a part, the benefit pro- duced on the whole body by the bath; to which a sedative action is occasion- ally given by the use of roots, herbs, or other ingredients ; the object being to relieve the internal organ, as the throat, or muscles round a joint, by exciting a greater flow of blood to the skin over the affected part. As the real agent of relief is heat, the fomentation should always be as hot as it can comfortably be borne, and, to insure effect, should be repeated every half-hour. Warm fluids are applied in order to render the swelling which accompanies inflamma- tion less painful, by the greater readiness with which the skin yields, than when it is harsh and dry. They are of various kinds; but the most simple, and oftentimes the most useful, that can be employed, is Warm Water.'* Another kind of fomentation is composed of dried poppj^heads, 4 oz. Break them to pieces, empty out the seeds, put them into 4 pints of water, boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain through a cloth or sieve, and keep the water for use. Or, chamomile flowers, hemlock, and many other plants, may be boiled, and the part k>mented with the hot liquor, by means of flannels wetted with the decoction. 2603. Coldf when applied in excess to the body, drives the blood from the^ surface to the centre, reduces the pulse, makes the breathing hard and difficult, produces coma, and, if long continued, death. But when medicinally used, it excites a reaction on the surface equivalent to a stimulating effect; as in soma