POULTRY. 46^ by tlie little biting pests, and heartily responded to. Mix-half a teaspoouful of hydro- oxalic acid with twelve teaspoonfuls of water,—apply to the itching parts with an old shaving-brush. Obstetjction" the Chop.—Obstruction of the crop is occasioned by wealniess or greediness. You may know when a bird is so afflicted by his crop being distended almost to bursting. Mowbray tells of a hen of his in this predicament; when the crop was opened, a quantity of new beans were discovered in a state of vegetation. The crop should be sHt from the bottom to the top with a sharp pair of scissors, the contents taken out, and the slit sewed up again with tine white thread. MINCED FOWL—an Entree (Cold Meat Cookery}. 956. I^-GEEDiENTS.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 2 hard-boiled eggs, salt, cayenne, and ponnded mace, 1 onion, 1 faggot of savoury- herbs, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 oz. of butter, two teaspoonfuls of flour, i teaspoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. 3Iode.—Cut out from the fowl all the white meat, and mince it finely without any skin or bone ; put the bones, skin, and trimmings into a stewpan with an onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, a blade of mace, and nearly a pint of water; let this stew for an hour, then strain the liquor. Chop the eggs small; mix them with the fowl; add salt, cayenne, and pounded mace, put in the gravy and remaining ingredients; let the whole just boil, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Rdithev more than 1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl, 8f?. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Another way to make this is to mince the fowl, and warm it in white sauce or Bechamel. When dressed like this, 3 or 4 poached eggs may be placed on the top : o^^sters, or chopped mushrooms, or balls of oyster forcemeat, may be laid round the dish. The Moulting Seasoit.—During the moulting season, beginning properly at the end of September, the fowls will require a httle extra attention. Keep them dry and warm, and feed them liberally on warm and satisfying food. If in any fowl the moult should seem protracted, examine it for broken feather-stumps still bedded in the skin: if you lind any, extract them carefully with a pair of tweezers. If a fowl is hearty and strong, six weeks will see him out of his trouble; if he is weakly, or should take cold during the time, he will not thoroughly recover in less than three months. It is seldom or ever that hens will lay during the moult; while the cock, during the same period, will give so Httle of his consideration to the frivolities of love, that you may as well, nay, much better, keep him by himself till he perfectly recovers, A moulting chicken makca but a sorry dish. HASHED FOWIi, Indian Fashion (an Entree). 057. In-geedients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 3 or 4 sliced onions, 1 apple, 2 oz. of butter, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 1 table- spoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 pint of gravy. Mode,—Q.\\\j the onions into slicesj mince the apple, and fry these