MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 594 and when it has boiled for rather more than 10 minutes, or until it is perfectly tender, drain it in a colander, squeeze it quite dry, and chop it finely. Put the spinach into a clean stewpan, with the butter and a seasoning of pepper; stir the whole over the fire until quite hot; then put it on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Ti7ne.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach, 5 minutes to warm with the butter. Average cost for the above quantity, Sd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Spring spinach from March to July; winter spinach from November to March. J}^ote.—Grated nutmeg, pounded mace, or lemon-juice may also be added to enrich the flavour; and poached eggs are also frequently served with spinach: they should be placed on the top of it, and it should be garnished with sippets of toasted bread.—See coloured plate U. Varieties op Spinach.—These comprise the Strawberry spinach, which, under that name, was wont to be grown in our flower-gardens; the Good King Harry, the Garden Oracle, the Prickly, and the Eound, are the varieties commonly used. The Oracle is a hardy sort, much esteemed in France, and is a native of Tartary, introduced in 1518. The common spinach has its leaves round, and is softer and more succulent than any of the Brassica tribe. SPIHACH DBESSED WITH GEE AM, a la Francaise. 1156. Ikgkedients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 oz. of butter, 8 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 small teaspoonful of pounded sugar, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Boil and drain the spinach as in recipe No. 1155; chop it finely, and put it into a stewpan with the butter ; stir over a gentle fire, and, when the butter has dried away, add the remaining ingre- dients, and simmer for about 5 minutes. Previously to adding the cream, boil it first, in case it should curdle. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish either with sippets of toasted bread or leaves of puff-paste. Time.—10 to 15 minutes to boil the spinach; 10 minutes to stew with the cream. Average cost for the above quantity, 8c?. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable. — Spring spinach from March to July; winter spinach from Kovember to March. Sputach.—This is a Persian plant. It has been cultivated in our gardens about two hundred years, and is the most whole- some of vegetables. It is not very nutritious, but is very easily digested. It is very light and laxative. Wonderful properties have been ascribed to spinach. It is an excellent vegetable, and very beneficial to health. Plainly dressed, it is a resouroo SPINACH. for the poor; prepared luxuriantly, it is a choice disli for the rich. Spinach.—This vegetable belongs to a sub-order of the SalsGlacecB, or saltworts, aud is classified under the head of SjpirolohecSy with leaves shaped like worms, and of a SUO"