INVALID COOKERY. 899 put in the brotli, and the best pieces reserved for dressing in some other manner. Put the fowl into a saucepan, with all the ingre- dients, and simmer gently for H hour, carefully skimming the broth well. When done, strain, and put by in a cool place until wanted ; then take all the fat off the top, warm up as much as may be re- quired, and serve. This broth is, of course, only for those invalids whose stomachs are strong enough to digest it, with a flavouring of herbs, &c. It may be made in the same manner as beef tea, with water and salt only ; but the preparation will be but tasteless and insipid. "When the invalid cannot digest this chicken broth with the flavour- ing, we would recommend plain beef tea in preference to plain chicken tea, which it would be without the addition of herbs, onions, &c. Tvne.—li hour. Sufficient to make rather more than 1 pint of broth. ]SrUTRITIOUS COFFEE. 1864. IkgeedieisTTS.—2 oz. of ground coflee, 1 pint of milk. 3fode.—Let the coffee be freshly ground; put it into a saucepan, with the milk, which should be made nearly boiling before the coffee is put in, and boil both together for 3 minutes; clear it by pouring some of it into a cup, and then back again, and leave it on the hob for a few minutes to settle thoroughly. This coffee may be made still more nutritious by the addition of an egg well beaten, and put into the coffee-cup. Tmie.—5 minutes to boil, 5 minutes to settle. Sufficient to make 1 large breakfast-cupful of coffee. Our great nurse Miss Nightingale remarks, that " a great deal too much against tea is said by wise people, and a great deal too much of tea is given to the sick by foolish people. When you see the natural and almost universal craving in English sick for their •tea,' you cannot but feel that Nature knows what she is about. But a little tea or coffee restores them quite as much as a great deal; and a great deal of tea, and espe- cially of coffee, impairs the little power of digestion they have. Yet a nurse, because she sees how one or two cups of tea or cofi'ee restore her patient, thinks that three or four cups will do twice as much. This is not the case at all; it is, however, certain that there is nothing yet discovered which is a substitute to the English patient for his cup of tea; he can take it when he can take nothing else, and he often can't take anything else, if he has it not. Colfee is a better restorative than tea, but a greater impairer of the digestion. In making coffee, it is absolutely necessary to buy it in the berry, and grind it at home; otherwise, you may reckon upon its containing a certain amount of chicory, at least. This is not a question of the taste, or of the wholesomeness of chicory; it is, that chicory has nothing at all of the properties for which you give coffee, and, therefore, you may as well not give it." THE INVALID'S CUTLET. 1865. Ingeedients.—1 nice cutlet from a loin or neck of mutton, 2 teacupfuls of water, i very small stick of celery, pepper and salt to taste. JfoJe.—Have the cutlet cut from a very nice loin or neck of 3 M 2