DOMESTIC SERVANTS. CHAPTER, XLI. 2153. It is the custom of ''Society" to abuse its servants,—a fagon de purler, such as leads their lords and masters to talk of the weather, and, when rurally inclined, of the crops,—leads matronly ladies, and ladies just entering on their probation in that honoured and honourable state, to talk of servants, and, as we are told, wax eloquent over the greatest plague in. Jife while taking a quiet cup of tea. Young men at their clubs, also, we aro told, like to abuse their "fellows," perhaps not without a certain pride and pleasure at the opportunity of intimating that they enjoy such appendages to their state. It is another conviction of Society " that the race of good servants has died out, at least in England, although they do order these things better in France; that there is neither honesty, conscientiousness, nor the careful and industrious habits which distinguished the servants of our grandmothers and great-grandmothers ; that domestics no longer know their place; that the introduction of cheap silks and cottons, and, still more recently, those ambiguous ''materials" and tweeds, have removed the land- marks between the mistress and her maid, between the master and his man. 2154. When the distinction really depends on things so insignificant, this is very probably the case ; when the lady of fashion chooses her footman without any other consideration than his height, shape, and tourmire of his calf, it is not surprising that she should find a domestic who has no attach- ment for the family, who considers the figure he cuts behind her carriage, and the late hours he is compelled to keej^, a full compensation for the wages he exacts, for the food he wastes, and for the perquisites he can lay his hands on. Nor should the fast young man, who chooses his groom for his knowingness in the ways of the turf and in the tricks of low horse-dealers, be surprised if he is sometimes the victim of these learned ways. But these are the exceptional cases, which prove the existence of a better state of things. The great masses of society among us are not thus deserted ; there are few families of respectability, from the shopkeeper in the next street to the nobleman whose mansion dignifies the next square, which do not contain am.ong their dependents attached and useful servants ; and where these aro absent altogether, there are good reasons for it. The sensible master and the kind mistress know, that if servants depend on them for their means of