MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 676 ding, and bake for about f hour in a slow oven. Slices of candied-peel may be added at pleasure, or Sultana raisins may be substituted for the currants. Tvne.—'l bour. Average cost^ Is, Zd, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle—SuitdMe for a winter pudding*, wbcn fresh fruits are not obtainable. EiCE, with propel'management in cooking it, forms a very valuable and cheap addition to our farinaceous food, and, in years of scarcity, lias been found eminently useful in lessening the consumption of flour. When boiled, it should be so managed that the grains, though soft, should be as little broken and as dry as possible. The water in which it is dressed should only simmer, and not boil hard. Very little water should be used, as the grains absorb a great deal, and, consequently, swell much; and if they take up too much at first, it is ditlicult to get rid of it. Bakiug it in puddings is the best mode of preparing it. II. {Plain and Economical; a nice Pudding for Children.) 1343. Ingredien'ts.—1 teacupful of rice, 2 tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, 1 quart of milk, \ oz. of butter or 2 small tablespoonfuls of chopped suet, i teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mode.—"Wash the rice, put it into a pie-dish with the sugar, pour in the milk, and stir these ingredients well together; then add the butter cut up into very small pieces, or, instead of this, the above pro- portion of finely-minced suet; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake the piidding, in a moderate oven, from li to 2 hours. As the rice is not previously cooked, care must be taken that the pudding be very slovdy baked, to give plenty of time for the rice to swell, and for it to be very thoroughly done. Time.—1J to 2 hours. Average cost^ Id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 children. Scasonahle at any time. PIiAIN BOILED BICE PUDDING. 1344. iNGrvEDiENTS.—i lb. of rice. 3Iode.—Yfash the rice, tie it in a pudding-cloth, allowing room for the^ rice to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water; boil it gently for 2 hours, and if, after a time, the cloth seems tied too loosely, take the rice up and tighten the cloth. Serve with svreet melted butter, or cold butter and sugar, or stev/ed fruit, jam, or marmaLade; any of which accompaniments are suitable for plain boiled rice. Time.—2 hours after the water boils. Average cost, 2d, Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. BOILED RICE PUDDING. I. 1345. Ingrediej^ts.—i- lb. of rice, l-| pint of new milk, 2 oz. of