i35 risn. The FiSTNAiT Haddock.—This is the common haddock cured and dried, and takes its name from the fishing-village of Findhorn, near Aberdeen, in Scotland, where the art has long attained to perfection. The haddocks are there hung up for a day or two in the smoke of peat, when they are ready for cooking, and are esteemed, by the Scotch, a great dehcacy. In London, an imitation of them is made by AAashing the fish over with pyroligneous acid, and hanging it up in a.dry place for a few days. BED HEBBINGS, or TABMOUTH BLOATEBS. 267. The best way to cook these is to make incisions in the skin across the fish, because they do not then require to be so long on the fire, and will be far better than when cut open. The hard roe makes a nice relish by pounding it in a mortar, with a little anchovy, and spreading it on toast. If very dry, soak in warm v/ater 1 hour before dressing. TnE Eed HERRiNa.—"Red herrings lie twenty-four hours in the bruie, when they are taken out and hung up in a smoking-house formed to receive them. A brushwood fire is then kindled beneath them, and when they are sufficiently smoked and dried, they are p\it into barrels for carriage. BAKED WHITE HEBBOTGS. 263. Ingeediekts.~-12 herrings, 4 bay-leaves, 12 cloves, 12 allspice, 2 small blades of mace, cayenne pepper and salt to taste, sufficient vinegar to fill up the dish. Jibt^e.-—Take the herrings, cut off the heads, and gut tliem. Put them in a pie-dish, heads and tails alternately, and, between each layer, sprinkle over the above ingredients. Cover the fish with the vinegar, and bake for | hour, but do not use it till quite cold. The herrings may be cut down the front, the backbone taken out, and closed again. Sprats^ done in this way are very delicious. Time,—| an hour. Average cost^ Id. each. To Choose the Herring.—The more scale*? this fish has, the surer the sign of its freshness. It should also have a bright and silvery look; but if red about the head, it is a sign that it has been dead for some time. The Heering.—The herring tribe are found in the greatest abundance in the highest northern latitudes, where they find a quiet retreat, and security from their numerou3 enemies. Here they multiply beyond expression, . and, in shoals, come forth from their icy region to visit other portions of the great deep. In June they are found about Shetland, whence they proceed down to the Orkneys, where they divide, and surround the islands of Great Britain and Ireland. The principal British herring-fish- eries are off the Scotch and Norfolk coasts; and the fishing is always carried on by means of nets, which are usually laid at night; for, if stretched by day, they are supposed to frighten the fish liSRiii>rG. away. The moment the herring is taken out of the water it dies. Hence the origin ol the common saying, ** dead as a herring." KEGEBEE. 269. Ingeei?iekts.—Any cold fish, 1 teacupful of boiled rice, 1 oz. of butter, I teaspoonful of mustard, 2 soft-boiled eggs,' salt and cayenne to taste.