MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. tinctive designations. What is termed ' the blue butterfly smut' was, for somo time, considered the most valuable of fancy rabbits. It is thus named on account of having bluish or lead-coloured spots on either side of the nose, having some resemblance to tho spread wings of a butterfly, what may bs termed the groundwork of the rabbit's face being white. A black and white rabbit may also have the face marked in a similar manner, constituting a * black butterfly smut.' " But a good fancy rabbit must likewise have other marks, without which it cannot be considered a perfect model of its kind. There should be a black or blue patch on its back, called the saddle; the tail must be of the same colour with the back and snout; while the legs should be all white; and there ought to be dark stripes on both sides of the body in front, passing backwards to meet the saddle, and uniting on the top of the shoulders at the part called the withers in a horse. These stripes form what is termed the 'chain/ having somewhat the appearance of a chain or collar hanging round the neck. "Among thorough-bred fancy rabbits, perhaps not one in a hundred will have all these markings clearly and exactly displayed on the coat; but the more nearly the figures on the coat of a rabbit approach to the pattern described, the greater wiU be its value, so far, at least, as relates to colour. The beauty and consequent worth of a fancy rabbit, however, depends a good deal on its shape, or what is styled its carriage. A rabbit is said to have a good carriage when its back is finely arched, rising full two inches above the top of its head, which must be held so low as for the muzzle and the points of the ears to reach almost to the ground." STEWED BABBIT, Larded. 985. IiTGEEDiENTS.—1 rabbit, a few strips of bacon, rather more than 1 pint of good broth or stock, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, thickening of butter and Hour, 1 glass of sherry. Mode.—Well wash the rabbit, cut it into quarters, lard them with slips of bacon, and fry them ; then put them into a stewpan with the broth, herbs, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; simmer gently until the rabbit is tender, then strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and Hour, add the sherry, give one boil, pour it over the rabbit, and serve. Garnish with slices of cut lemon. Time.—Rather more than | hour. Average cost, Is. to Is. 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to February. The Hare-Eabbit.—There has been lately introduced to French tables an animal called the "Hare-rabbit," partaking of the nature, characteristics, and qualifica- tions of both the hare and the rabbit. It is highly spoken of, both as regards flesh and flavour; and it is said to be the only hybrid which is able to perpetuate its race. We hope that some enterprising individual will soon secure for English tables what would seem to be a really valuable addition to our other game and poultry dishes; although it will be rather difficult to exactly assign its proper posi- tion, as within or without the meaning of *' game," as by law established. Only a few specimens have been seen in England at present, but there is no reason to doubt that our rabbit-fanciers will prove equal to the occasion, and cope success- fully with our neighbours across the Channel in introducing a new animal serviceable in the kitchen. THE HAEE-KABBIT.