695 VEGETABLES. etilent iind. In its geographical distribution it is commonly found in estratropical and temperate regions, where the}^ grow as w eeds in waste ;places, and amoug rubbish, and in marshes by the seashore. In the tropics the order is rarely fouud. Many of thent are used as potherbs, and some of them are emetic and vermifuge in their medicinal properties. FBENCH MODE OF DBESSING SPirJACH. 1157. Ingkedients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 2 oz. of butfer, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 8 tablespoonfuls of good gravy; v/hen liked, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Pick, wash, and bofl the spinach, as in recipe No. 1155, and when quite tender, drain and squeeze it perfectly dry from the Y/ater that hangs about it. Chop it very fine, put the butter into a stewpan, and lay the spinach over that; stir it over a gentle fire, and dredge in the flour. Add the gravy, and let it boil quicldy for a few minutes, that it may not discolour. When the flavour of nutmeg is liked, grate some to the spinach, and when thoroughly hot, and the gravy has dried away a little, serve. Garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time—\^ to 15 minutes to boil the spinach; 10 minutes to simmer in the gravy. Average cost for the above quantity, 8c?. Si(fficient for 5 or 6 persons. SeasonaUe.—Spring spinach from March to July ; winter spmnch from October to February. Note.—For an entremets or second-course dish, spinach dressed by the above recipe may be pressed into a hot mould; it should tlien be turned out quickly, and served very hot. BAKED TOMATOES. {Excellent.) 1158. Ik-qeedients.—-8 or 10 tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, bread crumbs. Mode.—Take off the stalks from the tomatoes ; cut them into thick slices, and put thom into a deep baking-dish; add a plentiW season- ing of pepper and salt, and butter in the above proportion ; coTor the whole with bread crumbs ; drop over these a little clarified brnttoT; bake in a moderate oven from 20 minutes to J hour, and serve very hot. This vegetable, dressed as above, is an exceedingly nice aocoBipani- ment to all kinds of roast meat. The tomatoes? instead of bein^* cut in slices, may be baked whole; but they will take rather longer time to cook. l.me.—20 minutes to i hour. Average costy in full season, 9d> per basket. Sufficieiit for 5 or 6 persons. 2 Q 2