FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. 65 Seasonable from September to March. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—This soup can be made brown, instead of white, by omitting the cream, and colouring it a little. When celery cannot be procured, half a drachm of the seed, finely pounded, will give a flavour to the soup, if put in a quarter of an hour before it is done. A little of the essence of celery will answer the same purpose. Celeet.—This plant is indigenous to Britain, and, in its wild state, grows by the side of ditches and along some parts of the seaeoast. In this state itjs called smallage, and, to some extent, is a dangerous narcotic. By cultivation, however, it has been brought to the fine flavour which the garden plant possesses. In the vicinity of Manchester it is raised to an enormous size. Wnen our natural observation is assisted by the accurate results ascertained by the light of science, how infinitely does it enhance our delight in contemplating the products of nature ! To know, for example, that the end- less variety of colour which we see in plants is developed only by the rays of the sun, is to know a truism sublime by its very comprehensiveness. The cause of the whiteness of celery is nothing more than the want of light in its vegetation, and in order that this effect may be produced, the plant is almost wholly covered with earth j the tops of the leaves alone being suffered to appear above the ground. CHANTILLY SOUP 123. Ik-geedients.—1 quart of young green peas, a small bunch of parsley, 2 young onions, 2 quarts of medium stock No. 105. 3Iode.—Boil the peas till quite tender, with the parsley and onions ; then rub them through a sieve, and pour the stock to them. Do not let it boil after the peas are added, or you will spoil the colour. Serve very hot. Time.—-Half an hour. Average cost^ Is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—Cold peas pounded in a mortar, with a little stock added to them, make a very good soup in haste. Pahsley.—Among the Greeks, in the classic ages, a crown of parsley was awarded, both in the Nemaean and Isthmian games, and the voluptuous Anacreon pronounces this beautiful herb the emblem of joy and festivity. It has an elegant leaf, and is extensively Tised in the culinary art. When it was introduced to Britain is not known. There are several varieties,—the plain-leayed and the cicrled-le&yed, celery-parsley, Hamburg parsley, and purslane. The curled is the best, and, from the fox*m of its leaf, has a beautiful appearance on a dish as a garnish. Its flavour is, to many, very agreeable in soups ; and although to rabbits, hares, and sheep it is a luxury, to parrots it is a poison. The celery'-parsley is used as a celery, and the Hamburg is cultivated only tor its roots, which are used as parsni]ps or carrots, to eat with meat. The purslane is a native of South America, and is not now much in use. CHESTWUT (SPANISH) SOUP. 124. Ingeedients.—I lb. of Spanish chestnuts, 5 pint of cream; seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, and mace ; 1 quart of stock I^To. 105. J/ot?e.—Take the outer rind from the chestnuts, and put them into a large pan of warm water. As soon as this becomes too hot for the fingers to remain in it, take out the chegtauts, peel them quickly, and F