744 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. any kind of fruit, just before it is sent to table. This blancmange is better for being made the day before it is wanted, as it then has time to become firm. If laurel-leaves are used for flavouring, steep 3 of them in the milk, and take them out before the rice is added: about 8 drops of essence of almonds, or from 12 to 16 drops of essence of vanilla, would be required to flavour the above proportion of milk. Time.—From 10 to 15 minutes to boil the rice. Average cost^ 9(L Suffxient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. EICE CROQUSTTES. 1477- Ingeedients.—i lb. of rice, 1 quart of milk, 6oz. of pounded sugar, flavouring of vanilla, lemon-peel, or bitter almonds, egg and bread crumbs, hot lard. 3fode.—Put the rice, milk, and sugar into a saucepan, and let the former gradually swell over a gentle fire until all the milk is dried up ; and just before the rice is done, stir in a few drops of essence of any of the above flavourings. Let the rice get cold ; then form it into small round balls, dip them into yolk of egg, sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard for about 10 minutes, turning them about, that they may get equally browned. Drain the greasy moisture from them, by placing them on a cloth in front of the fire for a minute or two ; pile them on a white d'oyley, and send them quickly to table. A small piece of jam is sometimes introduced into the middle of each croquette, which adds very much to the flavour of this favourite dish. Time.—From f to 1 hour to swell the rice; about 10 minutes to fry the croquettes. Average cost, IQd. Safficient to make 7 or 8 croquettes. Seasonable at any time. BICE FKITTERS. 1473. liS'GEEDiENTS.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, 3 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of fresh butter 6 oz. of orange marmalade, 4 eggs. Mode.—Swell the rice in the milk, with the sugar and butter, over a slow fire until it is perfectly tender, which will be in about l hour. ^Vhen the rice is done, strain away the milk, should there be any left, and mix with it the marmalade and well-beaten eggs ; stir the whole over the fire until the eggs are set; then spread the mixture on a dish to the thickness of about J inch, or rather thicker. When it is perfectly cold, cut it into long strips, dip them in a batter the same