271 GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON QUADRUrEDS. perpendicular line, wliilst in the Horse^ tlie Ox, and a few others, it forms a transverse bar. The ears are openings, generally accompanied with a cartilage v/hicli defends and covers them, called the external ears. In water-animals the latter are wanting ; sound, in them, being transmitted merely through orifices in the head, which have the name of auditory-holes. The most defenceless animals are extremely delicate in the sense of hearing, as are likewise most beasts ol prey. Most of the mammiferous animals icalk on four feet, which, at the extremities, are usually divided into toes or fingers. In some, however, the feet end in a single corneous substance called a hoof. The toes of a few end in broad, flat nails, and of most others, in pointed claws. Some, again, have the toes connected by a membrane, which is adapted to those that are destined to pass a considerable portion of their lives in water. Others, again, as in the Bat, have the digitations of the anterior feet greatly elongated, the intervening space being filled by a membrane, which extends round the hinder legs and tail, and by means of which they are enabled to rise into the air. In Man, the hand alone comprises fingers^ separate, free, and flexible; but Apes, and some other kinds of animals, have fingers both to the hands and feet. These, therefore, are the only animals that can hold movable objects in a single hand. Others, such as Rats and Squirrels, have the fingers sufficiently small and flexible to enable them to i^ick up objects : but they are compelled to hold them in both hands. Others, again, have the toes shorter, and must rest on the fore-feet, as is the case with dogs and cats when they wdsh to hold a substance firmly on the ground with their paws. There are still others that have their toes united and drawn under the skin, or enveloped in corneous hoofs, and are thereby enabled to exercise no prehensile power whatever. 588. According to the Design and End of Nature, mammiferous animals are calculated, when arrived at maturity, to subsist cn various kinds of fooc!,— some to live wholly upon flesh, others upon grain, herbs, or fruits ; but in their infant state, milk is the appropriate food of the whole. That this food may never fail them, it is universally ordained, that the young should no sooner come into the world, than the milk should flow in abundance into the members with which the mother is supplied for the secretion of that nutritious fluid. By a wonderful instinct of Nature, too, the young animal, almost as soon as it has come into life, searches for the teat, and knows perfcotly, at the f^rst, how, by the process of suction, it will be able to extract the fluid necessary to its existence. 589. In the General Economy of Nature, this class of animals sgcdis destined to preserve a constant equilibrium in the number of anim^ated beings that hold their existence on the surface of the earth. To man they are imme- diately useful in various ways. Some of their bodies afford him food, their skin shoes, and their fleece clothes. Some of them unite with him in participating the dangers of combat with an enemy, and others assist him in the chase, in exterminating wilder sorts^ or banishing them from the haunts of civilization.