MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 248 quantity of liquor ; this should be converted into a sauce like the above, and Y/ill be found a very useful relish. The Growth of the PEPPEH-PLiiirT.—Our readers will see at Nos. 369 and 399, a description, with engravings, of the qualities of black and long pepper, and an account of where these spices are found. We will here say something of the manner of the growth of the pepper-plant. Like the vine, it requires support, and it is usual to plant a thorny tree by its side, to which it may cling. In Malabar, the chief pepper district of India, the jacca-tree (Artocarpus integrifolia) is made thus to yield its assistance, the same soil being adapted to the growth of both plants. The stem of the pepper- plant entwines round its support to a considerable height; the flexile branches then droop downwards, bearing at their extremities, as well as at other parts, spikes of green flowers, which are followed by the pungent berries. These hang in large bunches, resembling in shape those of grapes; but the fruit grows distinct, each on a little stalk, like currants. Each berry contains a single seed, of a globular form and brownish colour, but which changes to a nearly black when dried; and this is the pepper of commerce. The leaves are not unlike those of the ivy, but are larger and of rather a lighter colour; they partake strongly of the peouHar smell and pungent taste of the berry. SAUCE TOUBNES. 517. Ingredients.-—1 pint of v/liite stock (No. 107), thickening of liour and butter, or white roux (No. 526), a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, 6 chopped mushrooms, 6 green onions. 3fode.—Put the stock into a stewpan with the herbs, onions, and mushrooms, and let it simmer very gently for about J hour ; stir in sufficient thickening to make it of a proper consistency; let it boil for a few minutes, then skim off all the fat, strain and serve. This sauce, %yith the addition of a little cream, is now frequently called veloute. Time.—i- hour. Average cost, for this quantity, 6d. Note.—If poultry trimmings are at hand, the stock should be made of these ; and the above sauce should not be made too thick, as it does not then admit of the fat being nicely removed. SWEET SAUCE, for Venison. 518. Ingeedients.— A small jar of red-currant jelly, 1 glass of port wine. 3Iode.-—Y\xi the above ingredients into a stewpan, set them over the fire, and, when melted, pour in a tureen and serve. It should not be allowed to boil. Time,—5 minutes to melt the jelly. Average cost, for this quantity. Is. SAUCE FOB WILBI'OWIi. 519- Ingkedients.—1 glass of port wine, 1 tablespoonful of Leamington sauce (No. 459), 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 slice of lemon-peel, 1 large shalot cut in slices, 1 blade of mace, cayenne to taste. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a stewpan, set it over the fire,