SAUCES^ ETC. 227 a layer of them in a deep pan, sprinkle salt over them, and then another layer of mushrooms, and so on alternately. Let them remain for a few hours, when break them up with the hand ; put them in a nice cool place for 3 days, occasionally stirring and mashing them well, to extract from them as much juice as possible. Now measure the quantity of liquor without straining, and to each quart allow the above proportion of spices, &c. Put all into a stone jar, cover it up very closely, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, set it over the lire, and let it boil for 3 hours. Have ready a nice clean stewpan ; turn into it the contents of the jar, and let the whole simmer very- gently for J hour; pour it into a jug, where it should stand in a cool place till the next day ; then pour it off into another jug, and strain it into very dry clean bottles, and do not squeeze the mushrooms. To each pint of ketchup add a few drops of brandy. Be careful not to shake the contents, but leave all the sediment behind in the jug ; cork well, and either seal or rosin the cork, so as perfectly to exclude the air. When a very clear bright ketchup is wanted, the liquor must be strained through a very fine hair-sieve, or flannel bag, after it has been very gently poured off; if the operation is not successful, it must be repeated until you have quite a clear liquor. It should be examined occasionally, and if it is spoiling, should be rebelled with a few peppercorns. Seasonable from the beginning of September to the middle of October, when this ketchup should be made. JSfote.—This flavouriKg ingredient^ if genuine and well prepared, is one of the most useful store sauces to the experienced cook, and no trouble should be spared in its preparation. Double ketchup is made by reducing the liquor to half the quantity ; for example, 1 quart must be boiled down to 1 pint. This goes farther than ordinary ketchup, as so little is required to flavour a good quantity of gravy. The sediment may also be bottled for immediate use, and will be found to answer for flavouring thick soups or gravies. How TO Distinguish Mushrooms pbom Toadstools.—The cultivated mushroom, known as Agaricus campestris, may be distinguished from other poisonous kinds of fungi by its having pink or flesh-coloured gills, or under-side, and by its invariably having an agreeable smeU, which the toadstool lias not. W^hen young, mushrooms are like a small round button, both the stalk and head being white. As they grow larger, they expand their heads by degrees into a flat form, the giLls underneath being at first of a pale flesh-colour, but becoming, as they stand longer, dark brown or blackish. Nearly all the poisonous I kinds are brown, and have in general a rank and putrid smeU. Edible mushrooms are 1 found in closely-fed pastures, but seldom grow in woods, where most of the poisonous sorts are to be found. TO DRY MUSHKOOMS. j 473. JibJe.—Wipe them clean, take away the brown part, and I peel off the skin; lay them on sheets of paper to dry, in a cool