MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY^ 894 to prevent liim from taking any food at all. She says, ^* I have known patients literally incapacitated from taking one article of food after another by this piece of ignorance. Let the food come at the right time, and be taken away, eaten or "uneaten, at the right time, but never let a patient have ' something always standing' by him, if you don't wish to disgust him of everything." 1848. Never serve beef tea or broth with the smallest loarticle of fat or grease on the surface. It is better, after making either of these, to allow them to get perfectly cold, when all the fat may be easily removed ; then warm up as much 5is may be required. Two or three pieces of clean whity-brown paper laid on the broth will absorb any greasy particles that may be floating at the top, as the grease will cling to the paper. 1849. I^o^st mutton, chickens, rabbits, calves' feet or head, game, fish (simply dressed), and simple puddings, are all hght food, and easily digested. Of course, these things are only partaken of, supposing the patient is recovering. 1850. A mutton chop, nicely cut, trimmed, and broiled to a turn, is a dish to be recommended for invalids ; but it must not be served tvith all the fat at the end, nor must it be too thickly cut. Let it be cooked over a fire free from smoke, and sent up with the gravy in it, between two very hot plates. Nothing is more disagreeable to an invalid than smohed food. .1851. In making toast-and-water, never blacken ihe bread, but toast it only a nice brown. Never leave toast-and-water to m?ike until the moment it is required, as it cannot^then be properly prepared,—at least, the patient will be obliged to drink it warm, which is anything but agreeable. 1852. In boiling eggs for invalids, let the white be just set; if boiled hard, they will be likely to disagree with the patient. 1853. In Miss Nightingale's admirable " Notes on Nursing," a book that no mother or nurse should be without, she says,—You cannot be too careful as to quality in sick diet. A nurse should never put before a patient milk that is sour, meat or soup that is turned, an egg that is bad, or vegetables under- done." Yet often, she says, she has seen these things brought in. to the sick, in a state perfectly perceptible to every nose or eye except the nurse's. It is here that the clever nurse appears,—she will not bring in the peccant article ; but, not to disappoint the patient, she will whip up something else in a few minutes. Eemember, that sick cookery should half do the work of your poor patient's weak digestion. 1854. She goes on to caution nurses, by saying,—"Take care not to spill into your patient's saucer; in other words, take care that the outside bottom rim of his cup shall be quite dry and clean. If, every time he lifts his cup to his lips, he has to carry the saucer with it, or else to drop the liquid upon and to soil his sheet, or bedgown, or pillow, or, if he is sitting up, his dress, you have no idea what a difference this minute want of care on your part makes to his comfort, and even to his willingness for food."