MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE, AND EGGS. 825 the mixture begins to warm, pour it two or three times into the basin, and back again, that the two ingredients may be well incorporated. Keep stirring the eggs and butter one way until they are hot, ivithout boiling, and serve on hot buttered toast. If the mixture is allowed to boil, it will curdle, and so be entirely spoiled. Time.—About 5 minutes to make the eggs hot. Average cost, 7d. Sufficient—AYLow a slice to each person. Seasonable at any time. DUCKS' EGGS. 1658. Ducks' eggs are usually so strongly flavoured that, plainly boiled, they are not good for eating; they answer, however, very well for various culinary preparations where eggs are required; such as custards, &c. &c. Being so large and highly-flavoured, 1 duck's egg will go as far as 2 small hen's eggs; besides making whatever they are mixed with exceedingly rich. They also are admirable when used in puddings. Primitive Method of Cooking Eggs.—The shepherds of Egypt had a singular manner of cooking eggs without the aid of fire. They placed them in a sling, which they turned so rapidly that the friction of the air heated them to the exact point required for use. FBIED EGGS. 1659. Ingeediei^ts.-—4 eggs, i lb. of lard, butter or clarified dripping. J/ot?e.—Place a delicately-clean frying-pan over a gentle fire ; put in the fat, and allow it to come to the boiling-point. Break the eggs into cups, slip them into the boiling fat, and let them remain until the whites are deli- cately set; and, whilst they are frying, ladle a little of the fat over them. Take them up .,, 1 . /. tried eggs on bacon. with a slice, drain them for a minute from their greasy moisture, trim them neatly, and serve on slices of fried bacon or ham ; or the eggs may be placed in the middle of the dish, with the bacon put round as a garnish. Time.—2 to 3 minutes. Average cost, Id. each ; 2c?. when scarce. Sufficient for 2 persons. Seasonable at any time. Veneration for Eggs.—Many of the most learned philosophers held eggs in a kind of respect, approaching to veneration, because they caw in them the emblem ot the world and the four elements. The sheU, they said, represented the earth ; the white, water j the yolk, fire j and air was found under the sheU at one end of the egg. EGGS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 1660. Ingredients.—i lb. of fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, ^ pint of milk, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, the juice of i lemon, 6 eggs.