•THE HOG. 371 fresh^ or simply salted, ths small breed of pigs is best suited for the purpose j if for hams or bacon, the large variety of the animal is necessary. Pigs are usually weaned betv/een six and eight weeks after birth, after which they are fed on soft food, such as mashed potatoes in skimmed or butter-milk. The general period at which the small hogs are killed for the market is from 12 to 16 weeks; from 4 to 5 months, they are called store pigs, and are turned out to graze till the animal has acquired its full stature. As soon as this point has been reached, the pig should be forced to maturity as quickly as possible; he should therefore be taken from the fields and farm-yard, and shut up on boiled potatoes, buttermilk, and peas-meal, after a time to be followed by grains, oil-cake, wash, barley, and Indian meal; supplying his sty at the same time with plenty of water, cinders, and a quantity of salt in every mess of food presented to him. 789. The Estimated Number op Pigs in Great Britain is supposed to exceed 20 millions; and, considering the third of the number as worth-£2 apiece, and the remaining two-thirds as of the relative value of IO5. each, would give a marketable estimate of over £20,000,000 for this animal alone. 790. The best and most humane Mode of Killing all large Hogs is to strike them down like a bullock, with the pointed end of a poleaxe, on the forehead, which has the effect of killing the animal at once; all the butcher has then to do, is to open the^ aorta and great arteries, and laying the animal's neck over a trough, let out the blood as quickly as possible. The carcase is then to be scalded, either on a board or by immersion in a tub of very hot water, and all the hair and dirt rapidly scraped off, till the skin is made per- fectly white, when it is hung up, opened, and dressed, as it is called, in the usual way. It is then allowed to cool, a sheet being thrown around the carcase, to prevent the air from discolouring the newly-cleaned skin. When meant for bacon, the hair is singed instead of being scalded off. 791. In the Country, where for ordinary consum.ption the pork killed for sale is usually both larger and fatter than that supplied to the London con- sumer, it is customary to remove the skin and fat down to the lean, and, salting that, roast what remains of the joint. Pork goes further, and is consequently a more economical food than other meats, simply because the texture is closer, and there is less waste in the cooking, either in roasting or boiling. 792. In fresh Pork, the leg is the most economical family joint, and the loin the richest. 793. Comparatively Speaking, very little difference exists between the weight of the live and dead pig, and this, simply because there is neither the head nor the hide to be removed. It has been proved that pork loses in cooking 13^ per cent, of its weight. A salted hand v/eighing 4 lbs. 5 oz. lost in the cooking 11 oz.; after cooking, the meat weighing only 3 lbs. 1 oz., and the 2 B 2