84 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, II. 163. Ingeedients.—i lb. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of clear gravy stock, No. 169. Mode.—Viit the vermicelli in the soup, boiling; simmer very gently for i an hour, and stir frequently. Tijne.—4 an hour. Average cost^ Is. Zd, per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. WHITE SOUP. 164. Ingredients.—i lb. of sweet almonds, i lb. of cold veal or poultry, a thick slice of stale bread, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 1 blade of mace, pounded, f pint of cream, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 quarts of white stock. No. 107. Mode.—Reduce the almonds in a mortar to a paste, with a spoonful of water, and add to them the meat, which should be previously pounded with the bread. Beat all together, and add the lemon-peel, very finely chopped, and the mace. Pour the boiling stock on the whole, and simmer for an hour. Rub the eggs in the cream, put in the soup, bring it to a boil, and serve immediately. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. I^ote.—A more economical white soup may be made by using common veal stock, and thickening with rice, flour, and milk. Vermicelli should be served with it. Average cost, 5d. per quart USEFUL SOUP FOB BENEVOLENT PUBPOSES. 165. Ingeedients.—An ox-cheek, any pieces of trimmings of beef, which may be bought very cheaply (say 4 lbs.), a few bones, any pot-liquor the larder may furnish, J peck of onions, 6 leeks, a large bunch of herbs, ^ lb. of celery (the outside pieces, or green tops, do very well) ; 4 lb. of carrots, i lb. of turnips, i lb. of coarse brown sugar, 4 a pint of beer, 4 lbs. of common rice, or pearl barley ; i lb. of salt, 1 oz. of black pepper, a few raspings, 10 gallons of water. 3fode.—Cut up the meat in small pieces, break the bones, put them in a copper, with the 10 gallons of water, and stew for 4 an hour. Cut up the vegetables, put them in with the sugar and beer, and boil for 4 hours. Two hours before the soup is wanted, add the rice and raspings, and keep stirring till it is well mixed in the soup, which simmer gently. If the liquor reduces too much, fill up with water.