PUDDINGS A'SB DASTRT. CCS quantity would be found ample; but it must be baked quite Ij hour. Time.—Large pudding, 2i to 2l hours; half the size, l| hour. Average cost, 2s. 6(7. Sufficient for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable in winter. Eaisin"-Gr\pe.—AH the kinds of raisius have much the same virtues ; they are nutritive and balsamic, but they are very subject to fermentation with juices of any kind; and. lience, when eaten immoderately, they often bring on colics. Tljere are many varieties of grape used for raisins ; the fruit of Valencia is that mostly dried for culinary purposes, whilst most of the table kinds are grown in Malaga, and called Mus- catels. The finest of all table raisins come from Provence or Italy; the most esteemed of all are those of Roquevaire; they are very large and very sweet. This sort is rarel}'^ eaten by any but the most wealthy. The dried Malaga, or Muscatel i-afsins, which come to this country packed in small boxes, :\ud nicely preserved in bunches, are variable in their quality, but mostly of a rich flavour, when new, juicy, and of a deep purple hue. AlSr EXCBIiLE]^^T PLUM-PUDDIig-G-, made without Eggs. 1325. Ingkedients.—2- lb. of flour, 6 oz. of raisins, 6 oz. of cur- rants, I lb. of chopped suet, i lb. of brown sugar, J lb. of mashed carrot, $ lb. of mashed potatoes, 1 tablespoonful of treacle, 1 oz. of candied lemon-peel, 1 oz. of candied citron. Mode.—Mix the flour, currants, suet, and sugar well together; have ready the above proportions of mashed carrot and potato, which stir into the other ingredients; add the treacle and lemon-peel; but put no liquid in the mixture, or it will be spoiled. Tie it loosely in a cloth, or, if put in a basin, do not quite fill it, as the pudding should have room to swell, and boil it for 4 hours. Serve with brandy-sauce. This pudding is better for being mixed over-night. Time.—4 hours. Average cost, Is. Q>d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in winter. £ln uhkivalled plum-pudding. 1326. iNaBEDiENTS.—1-2- lb. of muscatcl raisins, I j lb. of currants, 1 lb. of sultana raisins, 2 lbs. of the finest moist sugar, 2 lbs. of bread crumbs, 16 eggs, 2 lbs. of finely-chopped suet, 6 oz. of mixed candied peel, the rind of 2 lemons, 1 oz. of ground nutmeg, 1 oz. of ground cinnamon, i oz. of pounded bitter almonds, i pint of brandy. Mode.—Stone and cut up the raisins, but do not chop them; wash and dry the currants, and cut the candied peel into thin slices. Mix all the dry ingredients well together, and moisten with the eggs,