273 THE OX. those who are unacquainted with the care with which they are tended, and with the anxious attention which is paid to the purity of their breed, A modem writer^ well acquainted with this subject, says, "There are now, at least, five hundred herds, large and small, in this kingdom, and from six to seven thousand head registered every alternate year in the herd-book." The necessity for thus recording the breeds is greater than might, at first sight, be imagined, as it tends directly to preserve the character of the cattle, while it sometimes adds to the value and reputation of the animal thus entered. Besides, many of the Americans, and large purchasers for the foreign market, will not look at an animal without the breeder has taken care to qualify him for such reference. Of short-horned stock, there is annually sold from £40,000 to £50,000 wortli by public auction, independent of the vast numbers disposed of by private contract. The breed is highly prized in Belgium, Prussia, France, Italy, and Russia; it is imported into most of the British colonies, and is greatly esteemed both for its meat and its dairy produce, wherever it is known. The quickness with which it takes on fiesh, and the weight which it frequently makes, are well known ; but we may mention that it is not uncommon to see steers of from four to five years old realize a weight of from 800 to 1,000 lbs. Such animals command from the butcher from £30 to £40 per head, according to the quality; whilst others, of two or three years old, and, of course, of less weight, bring as much as £20 apiece. 591. Long-Horns.—This is the prevailing breed in our midland counties and in Ireland ; but they are greatly inferior to the short-horns, and are fast being supplanted by them. Even where they have been cultivated wilh the nicest care and brought to the greatest perfection, they are inferior to the others, and must ultimately be driven from the farm. 592. The Aldskney.—Among the dairy breeds of England, the Alderney takes a prominent place, not on account of the quantity of milk which it yields, but on account of the excellent quality of the cream and butter which are produced from it. Its docility is marvellous, and in appearance it greatly resembles the Ayrshire breed of Scotland, the excellence of which is supposed LOITG-HORN" BULL, LONG-HORN COW.