MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 85S "buttered paper, and bake in rather a slow oven from 20 minutes to i- hour. A little candied lemon-peel mixed with the above is an improvement, and a great authority in culinary matters suggests the addition of a little cayenne pepper in gingerbread. "Whether it be advisable to use this latter ingredient or not, we leave our readers to decide. Time.~20 minutes to i hour. Average cost, Is. to Is, 4d per lb. Seasonable at any time. WHITE GIKTGEBBREAD. 17^)2. Ii^-GEEDIENTS.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of butter, hlh. of loaf sugar, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 oz. of ground ginger, 1 nutmeg grated, A tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, 1 gill of milk. 3Iode.—RxLb the butter into the flour ; add the sugar, which should be finely pounded and sifted, and the minced lemon-rind, ginger, and nutmeg. Mix these well together; make the milk just warm, stir in the soda, and work the whole into a nice smooth paste; roll it out, cut it into cakes, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average cost. Is, Zd, Seasonable at any time. GOOD HOLIDAY CAKE. 1763. Ingeedieitts.-—lie?, worth of Berwick's German baking- powder, 2 lbs. of flour, 6 oz. of butter, i lb. of lard, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of stoned and cut raisins, J lb. of mixed candied peel, § lb. of moist sugar, 3 eggs, f pint of cold miik. Mode.—Mix the baking-powder with the flour; then rub in the butter and lard ; have ready the currants, washed, picked, and dried the raisins stoned and cut into small pieces (not chopped), and the peel cut into neat slices. Add these with the sugar to the flour, &c., and mix all the dry ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, stir to them the milk, and with this liquid moisten the cake ; beat it up well, that all may be very thoroughly mixed; line a cake-tin with buttered paper, put in the cake, and bake it from 2i to 2| hours in a good oven. To ascertain when it is done, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it, and if, on withdrawing it, the knife looks clean, and not sticky, the cake is done. To prevent its burning at the top, a piece of clean paper may be put over whilst the cake is soaking, or being thoroughly cooked in the middle. A steamer, such as is used for steaming pota- toes, makes a very good cake-tin, if it be lined at the bottom and sides with buttered paper. Time.—2i to 2f hours. Average cost, 2s. ed, Seasonable at any time.