MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 682 Time—i hour to freeze the mixture. Average cost^ \s. 6d. ; exclusive of the compote^ \s. 4.d, Seasonable.—Served all the year round. MmiATUBE BICE PUDDIlNTaS. 1355. Ii^GREDiENTS.—i lb. of rice, ll pint of milk, 2 oz. of fresh butter, 4 eggs, sugar to taste; flavouring of lemon-peel, bitter almonds, or vanilla ; a few strips of candied peel. Mode.—Let the rice swell in 1 pint of the milk over a slow fire, putting with it a strip of lemon-peel; stir to it the butter and the other i pint of milk, and let the mixture cool. Then add the well- beaten eggs, and a few drops of essence of almonds or essence of vanilla, whichever may be preferred; butter well some small cups or moulds, line them with a few pieces of candied peel sliced very thin, fill them three parts full, and bake for about 40 minutes ; turn them out of the cups on to a white d'oyley, and serve with sweet sauce. The flavouring and candied peel might be omitted, and stewed fruit or preserve served instead, with these puddings. Time.—40 minutes. Average cost, Is, Sufficient for 6 puddings. Seasonable at any time© ABBOWBOOT SAUCE FOB PUDDmGS. 1356. Ingredients.—2 small teaspoonfuls of arrowroot, 4 dessert- spoonfuls of pounded sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, i pint of water. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the water; put this into a stewpan; add the sugar, strained lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg. Stir these ingredients over the fire until they boil, when the sauce is ready for use. A small quantity of wine, or any liqueur, would very much improve the flavour of this sauce : it is usually served with bread, rice, custard, or any dry pudding that is not very rich. Time.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, id, Svffi^cient for 6 or 7 persons. ^ CHEBBY" SAUCE FOB SWEET PUDDINGS. {German Recipe.) 1357. Ingredients.—1 lb. of cherries, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 oz. of butter, i pint of water, 1 wineglassful of port wine, a little grated lemon-rind, 4 pounded cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, sugar to taste. Mode.Stone the cherries, and pound the kernels in a mortar to a smooth paste; put the butter and flour into a saucepan; stir them