284 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. after it has been in salt about 10 days; just wash o& the salt, skewer it up in a nice round-looking form, and bind it with tape to keep the skewers in their places. Put it in a saucepan of boiling water, as in the preceding recipe, set it upon a good fire, and when it begins to boil, carefully remove all scum from the surface, as, if this is not attended to, it sinks on to the meat, and when brought to table, presents a very unsightly appearance. When it is well skimmed, draw the pot to the corner of the fire, and let it simmer very gently until done. Remove the tape and skewers, which should be replaced by a silver one; pour over a little of the pot-liquor, and garnish with carrots. (See coloured plate 2.) Carrots, turnips, parsnips, and sometimes suet dumplings, accompany this dish; and these may all be boiled with the beef. The pot-liquor should be saved, and converted into pea- soup ; and the outside slices, which are generally hard, and of an uninviting appearance, may be cut oif before being sent to table, and potted. These make an excellent relish for the breakfast or luncheon table. Ti?ne.—Part of a round of beef weighing 12 lbs., about 3 hours after the water boils. Average costf Sd. per lb. Sufficient for 10 persons. Seasojiahle all the year, but more suitable for winter. 609. Soyer's Eecipe for Preserving the Gravy in Salt Meat, when it is TO BE SERVED COLD.—Fill two tubs with cold water, into which throw a few pounds of rough ice ; and when the meat is done, put it into one of the tubs of ics-water; let it remain 1 minute, when take out, and put it into the other tub. Fill the first tub again v/ith water, and continue this process for about 20 minutes; then set it upon a dish, and let it remain until quite cold. Wheii cut, the fat will be as white as possible, besides having saved the whole of the gravy. If there is no ice, spring water will answer the same purpose, but will require to be more frequently changed. Note.—The Brisket and EuMPmay be boiled by the above recipe; of course allowing more or less time, according to the size of the joint. BEEF CAKE. 610. INGKEDIENTS.—The remains of cold roast beef; to each pouiid of cold meat allow i lb. of bacon or ham ; seasoning to taste of pepper and salt, 1 small bunch of minced savoury herbs, 1 or 2 eggs. Ilode,—Mince the beef very finely (if underdone it will be better), add to it the bacon, which must also be chopped very small, and mix well together. Season, stir in the herbs, and bind with an egg, or 2 should 1 not be sufficient. Make it into small square cakes, about