POULTRY. 477 BOAST GOOSE. side. Now cut off the end of the vent, and make a hole in the skin sufficiently large for the passage of the rump, in order to keep in the seasoning. 3Iode.—Make a sage-and-onion stuffing of the ahove ingredients, by recipe Ko. 504 ; put it into the body of the goose, and secure it firmly at both ends, by passing the rump through the hole made in the skin, and the other end by tying the skin of the neck to the back; by this means the seasoning will not escape. Put it down to a brisk fire, keep it well basted, and roast from li to 2 hours, according to the size. Re- move the skewers, and serve with a tureen of good gravy, and one of well- made apple-sauce. Should a very highly-flavoured seasoning be preferred, the onions should not be parboiled, but minced raw : of the two methods, the mild seasoning is far superior. A ragout, or pie, should be made of the giblets, or they may be stewed down to make gravy. Be careful to serve the goose before the breast falls, or its appearance will be spoiled by coming flattened to table. As this is rather a troublesome joint to carve, a large quantity of gravy should not be poured round the goose, but sent in a tureen. Time,—A large goose, 1| hour ; a moderate-sized one, Ikiolh, hour. Seasonable from September to March; but in perfection from Michaelmas to Christmas. Average costy 5s. 6d. each. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Note.—A teaspoonful of made mustard, a saltspoonful of salt, a few grains of cayenne, mixed with a glass of port wine, are sometimes pom-ed into the goose by a slit made in the apron. This sauce is, by many i^ersons, considered an improvement. The Goose.—This bird is pretty generally distriljuted over the face of the globe, 73eing met with in l!^"orth America, Lapland, Iceland, Arabia, and Persia. Its varieties are numerous ; but in England there is only one species, which is supposed to be a native breed. The best geese are found on the borders of Suffolk, and in liorfolk and Berkshire; but the largest iiocks are reared in the fens of Lincoln- shire and Cambridge. They thrive best where they have an easy access to water, nnd large herds of them are sent every year to London, to be fattened bv the meti'opolitan poulterers. **A Michael- mas goose," says Dr. Kitchener, "is as famous in the mouths of the million as the minced-pie at Christmas; yet for those who eat with dehcacy, it is, at that time, too full-grown. The true pe- riod when the goose is in the highest perfection is when it has just acquired IllDEX GOOSE.