423 MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. POTTED VEAL (for Breakfast). 899. Ingredients.—To every lb. of veal allow I lb. of ham, cayenne and pounded mace to taste, 6 oz. of fresh butter; clarified butter. Mode.—Mince the veal and ham together as finely as possible, and pound well in a mortar, with cayenne, pounded mace, and fresh butter in the above proportion. When reduced to a perfectly smooth paste, press it into potting-pots, and cover with clarified butter. If kept in a cool place, it will remain good some days. Seasonable from March to October. Names of Calves, &c.—During the time tlie young male calf is suckled by liis mother, he is called a bull- or ox-calf; when turned a year old, he is called a stirk, stot, or yearliug; on the completion of his second year, he is called a two-year-old bull or steer (and in some counties a twinter); then, a three-year-old steer ; and at four, an ox or a bullock, which latter names are retained till death. It may be here remarked, that the term ox is used as a general or common appellation for neat cattle, in a specific sense, and irrespective of sex; as the British ox, the Indian ox. The female is termed cow, but while sucking the mother, a cow-calf; at the age of a year, she is called a yearling quey; in another year, a heifer, or twinter ; then, a three-year-old quey or twinter ; and, at four years old, a cow. Other names, to be regarded as provincialisms, may exist in different districts. KAGOUT OF COLD VEAL (Cold Meat Cookery). 900. Ingredients.—The remains of cold veal, 1 oz. of butter, i pint of gravy, thickening of butter and flour, pepper and salt to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of sherry, 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-j nice, force- meat balls. 3Iode.—Any part of veal will make this dish. Cut the meat into nice-looking pieces, put them in a stewpan with 1 oz. of butter, and fry a light brown; add the gravy (hot water may be substituted for this), thicken with a little butter and flour, and stew gently about I hour; season with pepper, salt, and pounded mace; add the ketchup, sherry, and lemon-juice ; give one boil, and serve. Garnish the dish with forcemeat balls and fried rashers of bacon. Time,—Altogether i hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 6c?. Seasonable from March to October. JS^ote.—The above recipe may be varied, by adding vegetables^ such as peas, cucumbers, lettuces, green onions cut in slices, a dozen or two of green gooseberries (not seedy), all of which should be fried a little with the merit, and>then stewed in the gravy. VSAL BISSOLES (Cold Meat Cookery). 901. Ikgbediejjts.—A few slices of cold roast veal, a few slices of