PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 647 3fode.—Put tlie bread crumbs into a basin; mix with them the suet^ which should be finely minced, the marmalade, and the sugar; stir all these ingredients well together, beat the eggs to a froth, moisten the pudding with these, and when well mix^d, put it into a mould or buttered basin; tie down with a floured cloth, and boil for 2 hours. When turned out, strew a little fine-sifted sugar oyer the top, and serve. Time—2 hours. Average cost, lid, Sufficieiit for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The mould may be ornamented with stoned raisins^ arranged in any tanciful pattern^, before the mixture is poured in, which would add very much to the appearance of the pudding. For a plainer pudding, double the quan- tities of the bread crumbs, and if the eggs do not moisten it sufficiently, uso a little milk. BAKED GOOSEBERRY PUDDINa. 1283. IifGEEDiENTS.—Grooseberries, 3 eggs, 1| oz. of butter, | pint of bread crumbs, sugar to, taste. JfbfZe.—Put the gooseberries into a jar, previously cutting off the tops and tails ; place this jar in boiling water, and let it boil until the gooseberries are soft enough to pulp; then beat them through a coarse sieve, and to every pint of pulp add 3 well-whisked eggs, 14 oz. of butter, J pint of bread crumbs, and sugar to taste ; beat the mixture well, put a border of puff-paste round the edge of a pie-dish, put in the pudding, bake for about 40 minutes, strew sifted sugar over, and serve. 2Vme.—About 40 minutes. Average cost^ lOd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from May to July. j BOILED GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 1284. Ingeedients.—f lb. of suet crust No. 1215, 1| pint of green gooseberries, i lb. of moist sugar. Mode.—Line a pudding-basin with suet crust E'o. 1215, rolled out to about \ inch in thickness, and, with a pair of scissors, cut off the tops and tails of the gooseberries; fill the basin with the fruit, put in the sugar, and cover with crust. Pinch the edges of the pudding together, tie over it a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil from 2i to ^^^^^^t. o » ^ BOILED FRUIT PUDDING. 3 hours; turn it out of the basin, and serve with a jug of cream. Tme.—24 to 3 hours. Average cost, 10c?. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from May to July,