MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERr, 354 hot on a napkin in a dish, and garnish with plenty of crisped parsley. Time.—'I hour to simmer the fry, 5 minutes to fry it. Average cost, lOd, per lb. Svifficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. HASHED LAMB AND BROILED BLADE-BONE. 749* Ingredients.—The remains of a cold shoulder of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, about i pint of stock or gravy, 1 table- spoonful of shalot vinegar, 3 or 4 pickled gherkins. Mode.—Take the blade-bone from the shoulder, and cut the meat into collops as neatly as possible. Season the bone with pepper and salt, pour a little oiled butter over it, and place it in the oven to warm through. Put the stock into a stewpan, add the ketchup and shalot vinegar, and lay in the pieces of lamb. Let these heat gradually through, but do not allow them to boil. Take the blade-bone out of the oven, and place it on a gridiron over a sharp fire to brown. Slice the gherkins, put them into the hash, and dish it with the blade-bone in the centre. It may be garnished with croutons or sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether i hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 4(?. SeasonalUy—'hovLBQ lamb, from Christmas to March; grass lamb, from Easter to Michaelmas. ROAST PORE-QUARTER OP LAMB. ^ 750. Ingredients.—Lamb, a little salt. Mode.—lLQ obtain the flavour of lamb in perfection, it should not be long kept; time to cool is all that it requires; and though the meat ; may be somewhat thready, the juices and flavour will be infinitely superior to that of lamb that has been killed 2 or 3 days. Make up ,i the fire in good time, that it may be clear and brisk when the joint is put \ down. Place it at a sufficient distance t to prevent the fat from burning, and baste it constantly till the moment, of serving. Lamb should be very j i-oKE-QTJARTEB OF I.AMB. thorougklt/ douo wlthout being dried ; up, and not the slightest appearance of red gravy should be visible, as j, in roast mutton: this rule is applicable to all young white meats. L Serve with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, the same as for other roasts, and send to table with it a tureen of mint sauce, No. 469,