999 DUTIES OP THE HOUSEMAID. nsing a little polish, and then well rubbing it. Again, drawers which draw out stiffly may be made to move more easily if the spot where they press is rubbed over with a little soap. 2330. Chips broken off any of the furniture should be collected and re- placed, by m^eans of a little glue applied to it. Liquid glue, which is sold prepared in bottles, is very useful to have in the house, as it requires no melting; and anything broken can be so quickly repaired. 2331. Breaking glass and china is about the most disagreeable thing that can happen in a family, and it is, probably, a greater annoyance to a right- minded servant than to the mistress. A neat-handed housemaid may some- times repair these breakages, where they are not broken in very conspicuous places, by joining the pieces very neatly together with a cement made as follows :—Dissolve an ounce of gum mastic in a quantity of highly-rectified spirits of w'.ne ; then soften an ounce of isinglass in warm water, and, finally, dissolve it in rum or brandy, till it forms a thick jelly. Mix the isinglass and gum mastic together, adding a quarter of an ounce of finely-powdered gum ammoniac ; put the whole into an earthen pipkin, and in a warm place, till they are thoroughly incorporated together; pour it into a small phial, and cork it down for use. 2332. In using it, dissolve a small piece of the cement in a silver teaspoon ovel" a lighted candle. The broken pieces of glass or china being warmed, and touched with the now liquid cement, join the parts neatly together, and hold in their places till the cement has set; then wipe away the cement adhering to the edge of the joint, and leave it for twelve hours without touching it: the joint will be as strong as the china itself, and if neatly done^ it will show no joining. It is essential that neither of the pieces be wetted either with hot or cold water. USEFUL EECIPES FOR HOUSEMAIDS. To clean Marble. 2333. Mix with I pint of soap lees, 5 gill of turpentine, sufficient pipe-clay and bullock's gall to make the whole into rather a thick paste. Apply it to the marble with a soft brush, and after a day or two, when quite dry, rub it off with a soft rag. Apply this a second or third time till the marble is quite clean. Another method. 2334. Take two parts of soda, one of pumice-stone, and one of finely- powdered chalk. Sift these through a fine sieve, and mix them into a paste with water. Rub this well all over the marble, and the stains will be removed; then wash it with soap-and-water, and a beautiful bright polish will be produced.,