357 IAMB. sufficient distance from it, that the fat may not burn. Keep constantly basting until done, and serve with a little gravy made in the dripping- pan, and send mint sauce to table with it. Peas, spinach, or cauli flowers are the usual vegetables served with lamb, and also a fresh salad. Time.—A shoulder of lamb rather more than 1 hour. Average costj lOd. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. JSeaso7iabIe from Easter to Michaelmas. SHOULDEB OF LAMB STUFFED. 756. INGREDIENTS.—Shoulder of lamb, forcemeat No. 417, trimmings of veal or beef, 2 onions, i head of celery, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 quart of stock No. 105. Mode.—Take the blade-bone out of a shoulder of lamb, fill up its place with forcemeat, and sew it up with coarse thread. Put it into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon under and over the lamb, and add the remaining ingredients. Stew very gently for rather more than 2 hours. Eeduce the gravy, with which glaze the meat, and serve with peas, stewed cucumbers, or sorrel sauce. Time.—Eather more than 2 hours. Average cost^ 10(7. to Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas. LAMB'S SWEETBBEADS, LAKDED, AND ASPAEAGUS (an Entree). 757. Ingeedients.—2 or 3 sweetbreads, | pint of veal stock, white pepper and salt to taste, a small bunch of green onions, 1 blade of pounded mace, thickening of butter and flour, 2 eggs, nearly J pint of cream, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, a very little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Soak the sweetbreads in lukewarm water, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and let them simmer for 10 minutes ; then take them out and put them into cold water. Now lard them, lay them in a stewpan, add the stock, seasoning, onions, mace, and a thickening of butter and flour, and stew gently for ^ hour or 20 minutes. Beat up the egg with the cream, to which add the minced parsley and a very little grated nutmeg. Put this to the other ingredients; stir it well till quite hot, but do not let it boil after the cream is added, or it will curdle. Have ready some asparagus-tops, boiled; add these to the sweetbreads, and serve. Altogether i hour. Average costt 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d, each. Sufficient—^ sweetbreads for 1 entree. Seasonable from Easter to Michaelmas.