DUTIES OF THE HOUSEMAID. 987 it necessary. No expectations of a personal character should influence them one way or the other. It would be acting unreasonably to any domestic to make them refuse such presents as tradespeople choose to give them ; the utmost that can be expected is that they should not influence their judgment in the articles supplied—that they should represent them truly to master or mistress, without fear and without favour. Civility to all, servility to none, is a good maxim for every one. Deference to a master and mistress, and to their friends and visitors, is one of the implied terms of their engage- ment ; and this deference must apply even to what may be considered their whims. A servant is not to be seated, or wear a hat in the house, in his master's or mistress's presence; nor offer any opinion, unless asked for it; nor even to say ''good night," or ''good morning," except in reply to that salutation. To preserve cut Flowers. 2289. A bouquet of freshly-cut flowers may be preserved alive for a long time by placing them in a glass or vase with fresh water, in which a little charcoal has been steeped, or a small piece of camphor dissolved. The vase should be set upon a plate or dish, and covered with a bell-glass, around the edges of which, when it comes in contact with the plate, a little water should be poured to exclude the au% To revive cut Flowers after packing. 2290. Plunge the stems into boiling v/ater, and by the time the water is cold, the flowers will have revived. Then cut afresh the ends of the stems, and keep them in fresh cold water. TJPPEB ANB UNDEB HOUSEMAIDS. 2291. Housemaids, in large establishments, have usually one or more assistants ; in this case they are upper and under housemaids. Dividing the work between them, the upper housemaid will probably reserve lor herself the task of dusting the ornaments and cleaning the furniture of the principal apartments, but it is her duty to see that every depart- ment is properly attended to. The number of assistants depends on the n\imber in the family, as well as on the style in which the establishment is kept up. In wealthy families it is not unusual for every grown-up daughter to have her waiting-maid, whose duty it is to keep her mistress's apart- ments in order, thus abridging the housemaid's duties. In others, perhaps, one waiting-maid attends on two or three, when the housemaid's assistance will be more requisite. In fact, every establishment has some customs peculiar to itself, on which v\^o need not dwell; the general duties are the s :.7n$ in all, perfect cleanhness and order being the object.