MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 896 5 minutes, and put it away in a clean jug. It can bo warmed from time to time, as required. Time.—To be boiled until reduced to half. Average cost^ Is. 6cl. Svfficierd with the wine to make pint of gruel. TO MAKE BABLEY-WATER. 1857. IiTGREDiENTS.—2 oz. of pearl barle3% 2 quarts of boiling water, 1 pint of cold water. Wash the barley in cold water ; put it into a saucepan with the above proportion of cold water, and when it has boiled for about I hour, strain off the water, and add the 2 quarts of fresh boiling J water. Boil it until the liquid is reduced one half; strain it, and it^ will be ready for use. It may be flavoured with lemon-peel, after being sweetened, or a small piece may be simmered with the barley. Yv^hen the invalid may take it, a little lemon-juice gives this pleasant drink in illness a very nice flavour. ' Time.—To boil until the liquid is reduced one half. i Sufficient to make 1 quart of barley-water. j TO MAKE BEEF TEA. 1858. Ikgeedients.—1 lb. of lean gravy-beef, 1 quart of water, 1 saltspoonful of salt. 3fode.—Have the meat cut without fat and bone, and choose a nice fleshy piece. Cut it into small pieces about the size of dice, and put it into a clean saucepan: Add the water cold to it; put it on the fire,, and bring it to the boiling-point; then skim well. Put in the salt 1 when the water boils, and simyner the h^idindigently from i to f hour» 1 removing any more scum should it appear on the surface. Strain the j tea through a hair sieve, and set it by in a cool place. When wanted i for use, remove every particle of fat from the top ; warm up as much : as may be required, adding, if necessary, a little more salt. This pre- paration is simple beef tea, and is to be administered to those invalids, to whom flavourings and seasonings are not allowed. "When thel patient is very low, use double the quantity of meat to the same pro- portion of water. Should the invalid be able to take the tea prepared in a more palatable manner, it is easy to make it so by following the j directions in the next recipe, which is an admirable one for making | savoury beef tea. Beef tea is always better when made the day before | it is wanted, and then warmed up. It is a good plan to put the tea into a small cup or basin, and to place this basin in a saucepan of; boiling water. When the tea is warm, it is ready to serve.