VEGETAELES. 589 Qualities of Potatoes.—In making a clioice from the many varieties of potatoes which are everywhere found, the best way is to get a sample and taste them, and then fix upon the kind which best pleases your palate. The Shaw is one of the most esteemed of the early potatoes for field culture; and the Kidney and Bread-fruit are also good sorts. The Lancashire Pink is also a good potato, and is much cultivated in the neigh- bourhood of Liverpool. As late or long-keeping potatoes, the Tartan or lied-apple stands very high in favour. POTATO SNOW. 1148. Ingeedients.—Potatoes, salt, and water. Mode.—Choose large white potatoes, as free from spots as possible; boil them in their skins in salt and water until perfectly tender; drain and dry them thoroughly by the side of the fire, and peel them. Put a hot dish before the fire, rub the potatoes through a coarse sieve on to this dish; do not touch them afterwards, or the flakes will fall, and serve as hot as possible. Ti7ne.—i to f hour to boil the potatoes. Average cost^ is. per bushel. Sufficient—Q potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Potato as an Article oe Human Food.—This valuable esculent, next to wheat, is of the greatest importance in the eye of the political economist. From no other crop that can be cultivated does the public derive so much benefit; and it has been demon- strated that an acre of potatoes will feed double the number of people that can be fed from an acre of wheat. TO DRESS SALSIFY. 1149. Ingrediei^ts.—Salsify; to each i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, 1 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice. Mode.—Scrape the roots gently, so as to strip them only of their outside peel; cut them into pieces about 4 inches long, and, as they are peeled, throw them into water with which has been mixed a little lemon-juice, to prevent their discolouring. Put them into boiling water, with salt, butter, and lemon-juice in the above proportion, and let them boil rapidly until tender ; try them with a fork; and, when it penetrates easily, they are done. Drain the salsify, and serve with a good white sauce or French melted butter. Time.—30 to 50 minutes. Seasonable in winter. Note.—This vegetable may be also boiled, sliced, and fried in batter of a nice brown. When crisp and a good colour, they should be served with fried parsloy in the centre of the dish, and a little fine salt sprinkled over the salsify. Salsify.—This esculent is, for the sake of its roots, cultivated in gardens. It belongs to the Composite class of flowers, which is the most extensive family in the vegetable kingdom. This family is not only one of the most natural and most uniform in structure, but there is also a great similarity existing in the properties of the plants of which it is composed. Generally speaking, all composite floNvers are tonic or stimulant in their medical virtues.