J!JOr>ERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Seasonahle from October to March. 3 lbs. of potatoes, pepper and salt to taste. COIiIiAHED PIG'S FACE (a Breakfast or Xiiincheon Bisli). 823. INGIIELIENTS.—I pig's face ; salt. For brine, 1 gallon of spring water, 1 lb. of common salt, f handful of cliopped juniper-berries, 6 bruised cloves, 2 bay-leaves, a few sprigs of thyme, basil, sage, J cz. of saltpetre. For forcemeat, J lb. of ham, | lb. bacon, 1 teaspoonfiil of mixed spices, pepper to taste, J ib. of lard, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 6 young onions. 3Iode—Singe the head carefully, bone it without breaking the skin, and rub it well with salt. Make the brine by boiling the above ingre- dients for i hour, and letting it stand to cool. "When cold, pour it over the head, and let it steep in this for 10 days, turning and rubbing it often. Then wipe, drain, and dry it. For the forcemeat, pound the ham and bacon very finelj^, and mix with these the remaining ingredients, taking care that the whole is thoroughly incorporated. Spread this equally over the head, roll it tightly in a cloth, and bind it securely with broad tape. Put it into a saucepan with a few meat trimmings, and cover it with stock ; let it simmer gently for 4 hours, and be particular that it does not stop boiling the whole time. When quite tender, take it up, put it between 2 dishes with a heavy weight on the top, and when cold, remove the cloth and tape. It should be sent to table on a napkin, or garnished with a piece of deep white paper with a ruche at the top. Time.—4: hours. Average costj from 25. to 2s. Q>d. _ Tee lYiLD and Domestic Hog.—The domestic hog is the descendant of a race long since banished from this island; and it is remarkable, that while the tamed animal has been and is kept under surveillance, the wild type whence this race sprung, has maintained itself ill its ancient fi'oedom, the fierce denizen of the forest, and one of the renowned beasts of the chase. Whatever doubt may exist as to the true origin of the dog, the horse, the ox, and others, or as to whether their origina.1 race is j'et extant or not, these doubts do not apply to the domestic hog. Its wild source still exists, and is universally recognized: like the wolf, however, it has been expelled from our island; but, like that animal, it still roams through the vast wooded tracts of Europe and Asia. TO DEESB Pia'S FKT (a Savoury Dish). 324. Ik-geediek"ts,—Ij lb. of pig's fry, 2 onions, a few snge-Ieaves, Mode.—Piit the lean fry at the bottom of a pie-dish, sprinkle over it some rnineed sage and onion, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; slice the potatoes : put a layer of these on the seasoning, then the fat fry, then more seasoning, and a layer of potatoes at the top. Fill the dish, with boiling water, and bake for 2 hours, or rather longer. pig's tace.