POULTRT. add a few oysters scalded in their liquor; let the sauce'get quite hot, but do not allow it to boil; pour some of it over the fowl, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. A blade of pounded mace added to the sauce, with the cream and eggs, will be found an im- provement. Time.—l\ hour. Average cost, is. Qd, Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from September to April. The Fowl-house.—In building a fowl-house, take care that it be, if ^oossible, built against a wall or fence that faces the soidJi, and thus insure its inmates agamst many cold winds, driving rains, and sleets they will otherwise suffer. Let the floor of the house slope half an inch to the foot from back to front, so as to insure drainage; let it also be close, hard, and perfectly smooth; so that it may be cleanly swept out. A capital plan is to mix a few bushels of chalk and dry earth, spread it over the floor, and pay a paviour's labourer a trifle to hammer it level with his rammer. The fowl-house should be seven feet high, and furnished with perches at least two feet apart. The perches must be level, and not one above the other, or unpleasant consequences may ensue to the undermost row. The perches should be ledged (not fixed—^just dropped into sockets, that they may be easily taken out and cleaned) not lower than five feet from the ground, convenient slips of wood being driven into the waU, to render the ascent as easy as possible. The front of the fowl-house should be latticed, taking care that the interstices be not wide enough even to tempt a chick to crawl through. STesting-boxes, containing soft hay, and fitted against the walls, so as to be easily reached by the perch-ladder, should be supplied. It will be as well to keep by you a few portable doors, so that you may hang one before the entrance to a nesting-box, when the hen goes in to sit. This will prevent other hens from intruding, a habit to which some are much addicted, I FHICASSEED FOWL OR CHICKEIsr (an Entree). 945. Ingeedients.—2 small fowls or 1 large one, 3 oz. of butter, a bunch of parsley and green onions, 1 clove, 2 blades of mace, 1 j shalot, 1 bay-leaf, salt and white pepper to taste, i pint of cream, the I yelks of 3 eggs. ilfbdfe.—Choose a couple of fat plump chickens, and, after drawing, singeing, and washing them, skin, and carve them into joints; blanch i these in boiling water for 2 or 3 minutes ; take them out, and immerse I them in cold water to render them white. Put the trimmings, with the necks and legs, into a stewpan ; add the parsley, onions, clove, mace, shalot, bay-leaf, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour to these the water that the chickens were blanched in, and simmer gently for rather more than 1 hour. Have ready another stewpan ; put in the joints of fowl, with the above proportion of butter; dredge them with j Hour, let them get hot, but do not brown them much; then moisten 1 the fricassee with the gravy made from the trimmings, &c., and stew I very gently for h hour. Lift the fowl into another stewpan, skim the I sauce, reduce it quickly over the fire, by letting it boil fast, and strain ! it over them. Add the cream, and a seasoning of pounded mace and I cayenne; let it boil up, and when ready to serve, stir to it the well- beaten yolks of 3 eggs: these should not be put in till the last moment,