MUTTON. ZZd Hashed Mttttoit.—Many persons express a decided aversion to hashed mutton; and, doubtless, this dislike has arisen from the fact that they have unfortunately never been properly served with this dish. If properly done, however, the meat tender (it ought to be as tender as when first roasted), the gravy abundant and well flavoured, and the sippets nicely toasted, and the whole served neatly; then, hashed mutton is by no means to be despised, and is infinitely more wholesome and appetizing than the cold leg or shoulder, of which fathers and husbands, and their bachelor friends, stand in such natural awe. HODGE-PODGE (Cold Meat Cookery). 720. Ingeedients.—About 1 lb. of underdone cold mutton, 2 let- tuces, 1 pint of green peas, 5 or 6 green onions, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, I teacupful of water. Mode.—Mince the mutton, and cut up the lettuces and onions in slices. Put these in a stewpan, with all the ingredients except the peas, and let these simmer very gently for f hour, keeping them well stirred. Boil the peas separately, mix these with the mutton, and serve very hot. Tijne.—| hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. SeasomUe from the end of May to August. lEISH STEW. I. 721. IiraREDiENTS.—3 lbs. of the loin or neck of mutton, 5 lbs. of potatoes, 5 large onions, pepper and salt to taste, rather more than 1 pint of water. Mode—llxim off some of the fat of the above quantity of loin or neck of mutton, and cut it into chops of a moderate thickness. Pare and halve the potatoes, and cut the onions into thick slices. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, then a layer of mutton and onions, and season with pepper and salt; proceed in this manner until the stewpan is full, taking care to have plenty of vegetables at the top. Pour in the water, and let it stew very gently for 2^ hours, keeping the lid of the stewpan closely shut the ivliole time, and occasionally shaking it to prevent its burning. Time.—21 hours. Average cost, for this quantity, 2s, ^d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. SeasonaUe.—KoYQ suitable for a winter dish. II. 722. IirGREDiEiTTS.--2 or 3 Ibs. of the breast of mutton, 1| pint of water, salt and pepper to taste, 4 lbs. of potatoes, 4 large onions. Mode.—'^Mt the mutton into a stewpan with the water and a little salt, and let it stew gently for an hour ; cut the meat into small 1 z 2