MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 684 3Iode.—'Md<.e f pint of melted butter by recipe No. 380, omitting the salt; stir in the sugar, add a little grated lemon-rind, nutmeg, or powdered cinnamon, and serve. Previously to making the melted butter, the milk can be flavoured with bitter almonds, by infusing about half a dozen of them in it for about i hour; the milk should then be strained before it is added to the other ingredients. This simple sauce may be served for children with rice, batter, or bread pudding. Time,—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, id, Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. VATTIIiLA CUSTARD SAUCE, to serve with Puddings. 1361. Ingeedieitts.—2- pint of milk, 2 eggs, 2 oz. of sugar, 10 drops of essence of vanilla. Iffode.—Beat the eggs, sweeten the milk; stir these ingredients well together, and flavour them with essence of vanilla, regulating the proportion of this latter ingredient by the strength of the essence, the size of the eggs, &c. Put the mixture into a small jug, place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the sauce one way until it thickens; but do not allow it to boil, or it will instantly curdle. Serve in a boat or tureen separately, with plum, bread, or any kind of dry pudding. Essence of bitter almonds or lemon-rind may be substituted for the vanilla, when they are more in accordance with the flavouring of the pudding with which the sauce is intended to be served. Time,—To be stirred in the jug from 8 to 10 minutes. Average costy id, JStifficient for 4 or 5 persons. AN EXCELLENT WINE SAUCE FOB PUDDINGS. 1362. Ikgkedients.—The yolks of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of fresh butter, ^ saltspoonful of salt, i pint of sherry or Madeira. Mode,~F\it the butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until the former thickens; then add the sugar, salt, and wine, and mix these ingredients well together. Separate the yolks from the whites of 4 eggs; beat up the former, and stir them briskly to the sauce; let it remain over the fire until it is on the point of simmering; but do not allow it to boil, or it will instantly curdle. This sauce is delicious with plum, marrow, or bread puddings; but should be served separately, and not poured over the pudding. Time,—Yrom 5 to 7 minutes to thicken the butter; about 5 minutes to stir the sauce over the fire. Average cost. Is. lOd, Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons.