DUTIES OF THE FOOT-MAN. 9G5 as liis livery, a working dress, consisting of a pair of overalls, a waistcoat, a fustian jacket, with a wbite or jean ouc for times when lie is liable to be called to answer the door or wait at breakfast; and, oa quitting his service, he is expected to leave behind him any livery had within six mouths. 2173. The footman is expected to rise early, in order to get through all his dirty work before the family are stirring. Boots and shoes, and knives and forks, should be cleaned, lamps in use trimmed, his master's clothes brushed, the furniture rubbed over; so that he may put aside his working dress, tidy himself, and appear in a clean jean jacket to lay the cloth and prepare breakfast for the family. 217-i. We need hardly dwell on the boot-cleaning process: three good brushes and good blacking must be provided; one of the brushes hard, to brush oil'the mud; the other soft, to lay on the blacking ; the third of a medium hardness, for polishing ; and each should be kept for its particular use. The blacking should be kept corked up, except when in use, and applied to the brush with a sponge tied to a stick, which, when put away, rests in a notch cut in the cork. When boots come in very muddy, it is a good practice to wash off the mud, and wijpe them dry with a sponge ; then leave them to dry very gradually on their sides, taking care they are not placed near the lire, or scorched. Much delicacy of treatment is required in cleaning ladies' boots, so as to make the leather look well-polished, and the upper part retain a fresh appearance, with the hning free from hand-marks, which are very offensive to a lady of reliued tastes. 2175. Patent leather boots require to be wiped with a wet sponge, and afterwards with a soft dry cloth, and occasionally with a soft cloth and sweet oil, blacking and polishing the edge of the soles in the usual way, but so as not to cover the patent polish with ^blacking. A little milk may also be used with ver}' good effect for pater.tleather boots. 2176. Top boots are stiU occasionally worn by gentlemen. While cleaning the lower part in the usual manner, protect the tops, by inserting a cloth or brown paper under the edges and bringing it over them. In cleaning the tops, lot the covering fall down over the boot; wash the tops clean with soap and flannel, and rub out any spots with pumice-stone. If the tops are to be whiter, dissolve an ounce of oxalic acid and half an ounce of pumice-stone in a pint of soft water; if a bi'own colour is intended, mix an ounce of muriatic acid, half an ounce of alum, half an ounce of gum Arabic, and half an ounce of spirit of lavender, in a pint and a half of skimmed milk " turned." These mix- tures apply by means of & sponge, and polish, when dry, with a rubber made of soft flannel. 2177. Knives are now generally cleaned by means of Kent's or Mastcrs's machine, which gives very little trouble, and is very eflective ; before, however, putting the knives into the machine, it is highly necessary that they be first washed in a little warm (not hot) water, and then thoroughly wiped : if put into the machine with any grease on them, it adheres to the brushes, and consequently renders them unfit to use for the next knives that may be put in. When this precaution is not taken, the machine must come to pieces, so causing an immense amount of trouble, which may all be avoided by having the knives thoroughly free from grease before using the machine. Brushes are -also used for cleaning forks, which facilitate the operation. AVhen knives are so cleaned, see that they are carefully polished, wiped, and with a good edge, the ferules and prougs free from dirt, and place them in the basket with the handles all one way. 2178. Lamp-trimming requires a thorough acquaintance with the mechanism; after that, constant attention to cleanliness, and an occasional entire clearing out with hot water : when this is done, all the i:)arts should be carefully dried before filling again with oil. When lacquered, wipe the lacquered parts with a soft brush and cloth, and wash occasionally with weak soapsuds, wiping carefully afterwards. Ei'ass lamps may bo ■cleaned with oil and rottenstone every day when trimmed. With bronze,'^and other •ornamental lamps, more care will be required, and soft flannel and oil only used, to prevent the removal of the bronze or enamel. Brass-work, or any metal-work not; lacquered, is cleaned by a little oil and rottenstone made into a paste, or with fine emery-powder and oil mixed in the same manner. A small portion of sal ammoMiae, beat into a fine powder and moistened with soft water, rubbed over brass ornameuts, and heated over a charcoal fire, and rubbed dry with bran or whitening, will give to brass-work the brilliancy of gold. In trimming moderator lamps, let the wick be cut evenly all round ; as, if left higher in one place than it is in another, it will cause it to smoke and burn badly. The lamp should tiieu be liiled with oil from a feeder, and