117 risn. !ZVm^?.—Altogether 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons, Seasonable from September to JSTo vember. The Bahbel.—This fishtakes its namefromthe barbs or AYattels at its mouth ; and, in England, is esteemed as one of the worst of the fresh-water fish. It was, however, formerly, if not now, a favourite with the Jews, excellent cookers of fish. Others would boil with it a piece of bacon, that it might have a relish. It is to be met with from two to three or four feet long, and is said to live to a great age. From Putney upwards, in the Thames, some are found of large size 5 but they are valued only as affordin; the angle. THE BARBEL. sport to the brethren of BBILI,. 230. Ingeedients.—J lb. of salt to cacli gallon of water; a littia vinegar. 3Iode.—Clean the brill, cut off the fins, and rub it over with a little lemon-juice, to preserve its whiteness. Set the fish in sufficient cold water to cover it; throw in salt, in the above proportions, and a little vinegar, and bring it gradually to boil; simmer very gently till the fish is done, which will be in about 10 minutes ; but the time for boiling, of course, depends entirely on the size of the fish. Serve it on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon, parsley, horseradish, and a little lobster coral sprinkled over the fish. Send lobster or shrimp sauce and plain melted butter to table with it. Time,—After the water boils, a small brill, 10 minutes; a large brill, 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost^ from 4s. to 8s. Seasonable from August to April. The Brill.—This fish resembles the sole, but is broader, and when large, is esteemed by many rjjjj. buill. in a scarcely less degree than the turbot, whilst it is much cheaper. It is a fine fish, and is abundant in the London market. To Choose Brill.—The flesh of this fish, like that of turbot, should be of a yellowish tint, and should be chosen on account of its thickness. If the flesh has a bkiish tint, it is not good. CODFISH. 231. Cod may be boiled whole; but a large head and shoulders aro quite sufficient for a dish, and contain all that is usually helped, because, when the thick part is done, the tail is insipid and overdone. The latter, cut in slices, makes a very good dish for frying; or it may