872 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. England, that the English East-India Company bought 2 lbs. 2 oz. of it, as a present for his majesty. In 1666 it was sold in London for sixty shillings a pound. From that date the consumption has gone on increasing from 5,000 lbs. to 50,000,000 lbs. 1794. Linnceus was induced to think that there were two species of tea-plant, one of which produced the black, and the other the green teas; but later observa- tions do not confirm this. When the leaves of black and green tea are expanded by hot water, and,,examined by the botanist, though a difference of character is perceived, yet this is not sufficient to authorize considering them as distinct species. The tea-tree flourishes best in temperate regions ; in China it is in- digenous. The part of China where the best tea is cultivated, is called by us the " tea country." The cultivation of the plant requires great care. It is raised chiefly on the sides of hills ; and, in order to increase the quantity and improve the quality of the leaves, the shrub is pruned, so as not to exceed the height of from two to three feet, much in the same manner as the vine is treated. in France. They pluck the leaves, one selecting them according to the kinds of tea required ; and, notwithstanding the tediousness of the operation, each labourer is able to gather from four to ten or fifteen pounds a day. When the trees attain to six or seven years of age, the produce becomes so inferior that they are removed to make room for a fresh succession, or they are cut down to allow of numerous young shoots. Teas of the finest flavour consist of the youngest leaves; and as these are gathered at four different periods of the year, the younger the leaves the higher flavoured the tea, and the scarcer, and consequently the dearer, the article. 1795. The various names by which teas are sold in the British market are corruptions of Chinese words. There are about a dozen different kinds ; but the principal are Bohea, Congou, and Souchong, and signify, respectively, in- ferior, middling, and superior. Teas are often perfumed and flavoured with the leaves of different kinds of plants grown on purpose. Different tea-farms in China produce teas of various qualities, raised by skilful cultivation on various soils. 1796. Tea, when chemically analyzed, is found to contain woody fibre, mucilage, a considerable quantity of the astringeiit principle, or tannin, a narcotic principle, which is, perhaps, connected with a peculiar aroma. The tannin is shown by its striking a black colour with sulphate of iron, and is the cause of the dark stain which is always formed when tea is spilt upon buff-coloured cottons dyed with iron. A constituent called Theine has also been discovered in tea, supposed to be identical with Caffei lie, one of the constituents of coffee. Liebig says, " Theine yields, in certain processes of decomposition, a series of most remarkable products, which have much analogy with those derived from^ uric acid in similar circumstances. . . The infusion of tea differs from that of coffee, by containing iron and manganese. . . Wo have in tea, of many kinds, a beverage which contains the active constituents of the most powerful mineral springs, and, however small the amount of iron