MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 200 a little onion, wlien liked, shredded very fine; salt, nutmeg', and cayenne to taste ; 4 oz. of bread crumbs, 1 egg-. Mode.—Mix all the ingredients well together, carefully mincing them very finely; beat up the egg, moisten with it, and work the whole very smoothly together. Oysters or anchovies may be added to this forcemeat, and will be found a great improvement. Average cost, 6d. Sufficient for a moderate-sized haddock or pike. POROBMEAT FOB VEAL, TXJUKEYS, FOWLS, HABB, &c. 417. Ingredients.—2 oz. of ham or lean bacon-, J lb. of suet, the rind of half a lemon, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced sweet herbs; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste; 6 oz. of bread crumbs, 2 eggs. Ifode.—Shred the ham or bacon, chop the suet, lemon-peel, and herbs, taking particular care that all be very finely minced; add a seasoning to taste, of salt, cayenne, and mace, and blend all thoroughly together with the bread crumbs, before wetting. Now beat and strain the eggs, work these up with the other ingredients, and the force- meat will be ready for use. When it is made into balls, fry of a nice brown, in boiling lard, or put them on a tin and bake for i hour in a moderate oven. As we have stated before, no one flavour should predominate greatly, and the forcemeat should be of sufficient body to cut with a knife, and yet not dry and heavy. For very delicate forcemeat, it is advisable to pound the ingredients together before binding with the egg ; but for ordinary cooking, mincing very finely answers the purpose. Average cost, Sd. Sufficient for a turkey, a moderate-sized fillet of veal, or a hare. Jj ^ Note.—In forcemeat for Hare, the liver of tlie animal is sometimes added. Boil for 5 minutes, mince it very small, and mix it with the other ingre- dients. If it should be in an misound state, it nrost be on no accovmt made use of. Sweet Herbs.—Those most usually employed for piii'- poses of cooldng, such as the flavouring of soups, sauces, forcemeats, &c., are thyme, sage, mint, marjoram, savory, and basil. Other sweet herbs are cultivated for purposes of medicine and perfumery: they are most grateful botli to the organs of taste and smelling; and to the aroma ^ derived from them is due, in a great measure, the sweet j and exhilarating fragrance of our " flowery meads." In ( BASIL. town, sweet herbs have to be procured at the greengrocers' or herbalists', whilst, in the country, the garden should , furnish aU that are wanted, the cook taking great care to have some dried in the autuma ; for her use throughout the winter months. |