MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 532 3Iode.^ChoosQ a haunch with clear, bright, and thick fat, and the cleft of the hoof smooth and close ; the greater quantity of fat there is, the better quality will the meat be. As many people object to venison when it has too much haut gout^ ascertain how long it has been kept, by running a sharp skewer into the meat close to the bone; when this is withdrawn, its sweetness can be judged of. "With care and attention, it will keep good a fortnight, unless the weather is very mild. Keep it perfectly dry by wiping it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains, and sprinkle over powdered ginger or pepper, as a preventative against the fly. When required for use, wash it in warm water, and dry it ivell with a cloth; butter a sheet of white close fire; baste the venison immediately, to prevent the paper and string from burning, and continue this operation, without intermission,, the whole of the time it is cooking. About 20 minutes before it is done, carefully remove the paste and paper, dredge the joint with flour, and baste well with butter until it is nicely frothed, and of a nice pale- brown colour ; garnish the knuckle-bone with a frill of white paper^ and serve with a good, strong, but unflavoured gravy, in a tureen, and currant jelly; or melt the jelly with a little port wine, and serve that also in a tureen. As the principal object in roasting venison is to preserve the fat, the above is the best mode of doing so where expense is not objected to ; but, in ordinary cases, the paste may be dispensed v/ith, and a double paper placed over the roast instead: it will not require so long cooking without the paste. Do not omit to send very hot plates to table, as the venison fat so soon freezes: to be thoroughly enjoyed by epicures, it should be eaten on hot-water plates. The neck and shoulder may be roasted in the same manner. Time,—A large haunch of buck venison, with the paste, 4 to 5 hours; haunch of doe venison, 3? to 3| hours. Allow less time without the paste. Average cost, Is. id. to Is. 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 18 persons. Seasonable.—Buck venison in greatest perfection from June to Michaelmas; doe venison from November to the end of January. The Deer.—This active tribe of animals principally inhabit wild and woody regionf. In their contentions, both with each other and the rest of tlio brute creation, these paper, put it over the fat, lay a coarse paste, about I inch in thickness, over this, and then a sheet or two of strong paper. ^ Tie the whole firmly on to the BOAST niUNCH OF VENISON. haunch with twine, and put the joint down to a strong