581 VEGETABLES. small lump of sugar into some water, that it may soon melt; put it with the peas, to which add J teaspoonful of salt. Take a piece of butter the size of a walnut, work it together with a teaspoonful of flour ; and add this to the peas, which should be boiling when it is put in. Keep shaking the stewpan, and, when the peas are nicely thick- ened, dress them high in the dish, and serve. Tiine.—Altogether, f hour. Average cosfy 6d, per peck. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Varieties op the Pea.—The varieties of the Pea are numerous; but they may ba divided into two classes—those grown for the ripened seed, and those grown for gather- ing in a green state. The culture of the latter is chiefly confined to the neighbourhoods of large towns, and may be considered as in part rather to belong to the operations of the gardener than to those of the agriculturist. The grey varieties are the early grey, the late grey, and the purple grey ; to which some add the Marlborough grey and the horn grey. The white varieties grown in fields are the pearl, early Charlton, golden hotspur, the common white, or Sujffolk, and other Suffolk varieties. STEWED GBEEK PEAS. 1135. IiTGREDiENTS.—1 quart of peas, 1 lettuce, 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, 1 egg, | teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Ifode—Shell the peas, and cut the onion and lettuce into slices; put these into a stewpan, with the butter, pepper, and salt, but with no more water than that which hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew the whole very gently for rather more than 1 hour; then stir to it a well-beaten egg, and about ^ teaspoonful of powdered sugar. When the peas, &c., are nicely thickened, serve ; but, after the egg is added, do not allow them to boil. Time.—Ij hour. Average cost, 6d. per peck. Svfficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from June to the end of August. The Sweet-pea and the Heath oe Wood-pea. —The Avell-known sweet-pea forms a fine covering to a trellis, or lattice-work in a flower-garden. Its gay and fragrant flowers, with its rambling habit, render it pecuharly adapted for such a purpose. The wood- f)ea, or heath-pea, is found in the heaths of Scot- and, and the Highlanders of that country are ex- tremely partial to them, and dry and chew them to give a greater relish to their whiskey. They also regard them as good against chest complaints, and say that by the use of them they are enabled to with- stand hunger and thirst for a long time. The peas have a sweet taste, somewhat like the root of li- quorice, and, when boiled, have an agreeable flavour, and are nutritive. In times of scarcity they have served as an article of food. When well boiled, a fork will pass through them; and, slightly dried, they are roasted, and in Holland and Flanders served up like chestnuts.