MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 820 Ilode—'Wash the macaroni, and boil it in the gravy and milk until quite tender, without being broken. Drain it, and put it into rather a deep dish. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the cream and 2 table- spoonfuls of the liquor the macaroni v/as boiled in; make this suf- ficiently hot to thicken, but do not allow it to boil; pour it over the macaroni, over which sprinkle the grated cheese and the butter broken into small pieces; brown with a salamander, or before the fire, and serve. Twie.—1^ to 1 f hour to boil the macaroni, 5 minutes to thicken the eggs and cream, 5 minutes to brown. Average cost, Is. 2d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. III. 1647. In'gredients.—i lb. of pipe macaroni, i pint of brown gravy No. 436, 6 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Ilode.—Wash the macaroni, and boil it in salt and water until quite tender; drain it, and put it into rather a deep dish. Have ready a pint of good brown gravy, pour it hot over the macaroni, and send it to table with grated Parmesan served on a separate dish. When the flavour is liked, a little pounded mace may be added to the water in which the macaroni is boiled; but this must always be sparingly added, as it will imijart a very strong flavour. Time.—1^^ to 1| hour to boil the macaroni. Average cost, with the gravy and cheese, \s. 3d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at smj time. POUNDED CHEESE. 1648. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of cheese allow 3 oz. of fresh butter. Mode.—To pound cheese is an economical way of usiog it, if it has become dry; it is exceedingly good spread on bread, and is the best way of eating it for those whose digestion is weak. Cut up the cheese into small pieces, and pound it smoothly in a mortar, adding butter in the above proportion. Press it down into a jar, cover with clarified butter, and it will keep for several days. The flavour may be very much increased by adding mixed mustard (about a teaspoonful to every lb.), or cayenne, or pounded mace. Curry-powder is also not unfrequently mixed with it. BAMAKINS, to serve with the CHEESE COUKSE. 1649. Ingredients.—J lb. of Cheshire cheese, \ lb. of Parmesan cheese, J lb. of fresh butter, 4 eggs, the crumb of a small roll; pepper, salt, and pounded mace to taste.