MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 77^1 Seaso7iahle.~KdlsQ this in September or October. i or very tiny earthenware moulds, and, when cold, cover it with oiled papers, and the jars with tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg, A few of the stones may be cracked, and the kernels boiled with the damsons, which very much improves the flavour of the cheese. : Tz7ne.—1 hour to boil the damsons without the sugar ; 2 hours to simmer them slowly, i hour quickly. Average cost, from 8c?. to 10c/. per ^-Ib. pot. Siffficie7it.—1 pint of damsons to make a vert/ small ^ot of cheese. Seaso7iahle,—Make this in September or October. COMPOTE OF BAMSOISrS. 1537. IiS'GBEDiENTS.—1 quart of damsons, 1 pint of-syrup No. 1512. Ilode.—Procure sound- ripe damsons; pick the stalks from them, and put them into boiling syrup, made by recipe No. 1-512. Simmer lliem gently until the fruit is tender, but not sufficiently soft to break ; take them up, boil the syrup for 5 minutes ; pour it over the damsons, and serve. This should be sent to table in a glass dish, Time\—About J hour to simmer the damsons ; 5 minutes to boil the syrup. Average cost^ 9c?. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seaso7iaUe in September and October; DAMSOIT JAM. 1538. Ii^GBEDiENTS.—-Damsons; to every lb. of fruit allow f lb. of loaf sugar. Mode,—Have the fruit gathered in dry weather ; pick it over, and reject any that is at all blemished. Stone the damsons, weigh them, and to every lb. allovv^ f lb. of loaf sugar. Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving-pan; keep stirring them gently until the sugar is dissolved, and carefully remove the scum as it rises. Boil the jam for about an hour, reckoning from the time it commences to simmer all over alike : it must be well stirred all the time, or it will be liable to burn and stick to the pan, which will cause the jam to have a very disagreeable flavour. "When the jam looks firm, and the juice appears to set, it is doneo Then take it ofl'the fire, put into pots, cover it down, when quite cold, with oiled and egged papers, the same as in recipe Ho. 1530, and store it away in a dry place. Twie.—l hour after the jam simmers all over. Average cost, from 6d. to 8c7. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—1| pint of damsons for a lb. pot.