MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 161 sherry, salt and pepper to taste, 1 bay-leaf, thickening of butter and flour. 3fode.—Clean and crimp the tench; carefully lay it in a stewpan with the stock, wine, salt and pepper, and bay-leaf; let it stew gently for i hour; then take it out, put it on a dish, and keep hot. Strain the liquor, and thicken it with butter and flour kneaded together, and stew for 0 minutes. If not perfectly smooth, squeeze it through a tammy, add a very little cayenne, and pour over the fish. Garnish with balls of veal forcemeat. Time.—Ptather more than l hour. Seasonable from October to June. A SINGULAR QUALITY i>- THE TE^'c^.—It is Said that tlie tench is possessed of such healing proiDcrties among the tinny tribes, that even the voracious pike spares it on thi3 account. The pike, fell t3^rant of the liquid plain, With ravenous waste devours his fellow train; Yet howsoe'er ^Yith raging famine pined, The tench he spares, a medicinal kind; For when by wounds distress'd, or sore disease, He courts the salutary fish for ea«e; Close to his scales the kind ph3'sician glides. And sweats a healing balsam from his sides. In our estimation, however, this self-denial in the pike may be attributed to a less poetical cause; namely, from the mud-loving disposition of the tench, it is enabled to keep itself so completely concealed at the bottom of its aqueous haunts, that it remains secure from the attacks of its predatory neighbour. STEWED TROUT. 336. IxGr.EDiENTS.—2 middling-sized trout, onion cut in thin slices, a little parsley, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 bay-leaves, a little thyme, salt and pepper to taste, 1 pint of medium stock No. 105, 1 glass of port wine, thickening of butter and flour. Ilode.—Wash the fish very clean, and wipe it quite dry. Lay it in a stewpan, with all the ingredients but the butter and flour, and simmer gently for ^ hour, or rather more, should not the fish be quite done. Take it out, strain the gravy, add the thickening, and stir it over a sharp fire for 5 minutes ; pour it over the trout, and serve. Time.—According to size, l hour or more. Average cos^.—Seldom bought. Seasonable from May to September, and fatter from the middle to the end of August than at any other time. Sufficient for 4 persons. ' Trout may be served with anchovy or caper sauce, baked in buttered paper, or fried whole like smelts. Trout dressed a la Genevese is extremely delicate; for this proceed the same as with salmon, No. 307.