1G5 FISH. The Trout.—This fish, though esteemed by the moderna for its delicacy, was little re<»arded by the ancients. Although it abounded in tlio lakes of the Roman empire, it is generally mentioned by ^Yriters only on account of the beauty of its colours. About the end of Sep- tember, they quit the deep water to which they had retired during the hot weather, for the purpose of spawning. This they always do on a gravelly bottom, or where gravel and sand are mixed among stones, towards the end or by the sides of streams. At this period they become black about the head and body, and become soft and unwholesome. They are never good when they are large with roe; but there are in all trout rivers some barren female fish, which continue good throughout the winter. In the common trout, the stomach is luicommonly strong and muscular, shell-fi.sh formiiT;^ a portion of the food of the animal; and it takes into its stomach gravel or sm;ill stones in order to assist in comminuting it. T3IE TROUT. BOILED TUBBOT. 837. Ingiiedients.—6 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. 3Iode.—Choose a middling-sized turbot; for they are invariably the inost valuable: if very large, the raeat will be tough and thready. Three or four hours before dressing, soak the fish in salt and water to take off the slime; then thoroughly cleanse it, and v/ith a knife make an incision down the middle of the back, to prevent the skin of the belly from cracking. Paib it over with lemon, and be particular not to cut oft the fins. Lay the fish in a very clean turbot-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and salt in the above proportion. Let ifc gradually come to a boil, and skim very carefully; keep it gently simmering, and on no account let it boil fast, as the fish would have a very unsightly appearance. When the meat separates easily from the bone, it is done ; then take it out, let it drain well, and dish it on a hot napkin. Eub a little lobster spawn through a sieve, sprinkle it over the fish, and garnish with tlifts of parsley and cut lemon. Lobster or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter, should be sent to table with it. {See Coloured Plate E.) Time.—After the water boils, about J hour for a large turbot; niiddliug size, about 20 minutes. Average cost,—large turbot, from 105. to 12j. ; middling size, fror.i 125. to 155. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient, 1 middling-sized turbot for 8 persons. Note.—An amusing anecdote is related, by Miss Edgcworth, of a bishop, •who, descending to his kitchen to superintend the dressing of a turbot, and discovering that his cook had stuj^idly cut off the fins, immediately comimenced sewing them on again with liis own episcopal fingers. This dignitary knew the value of a turbot's gelatinous appendages.