PUDDINGS AND PASTP.r. 627 APPLE SNOWBALLS. 1235. Ingeedients.—2 teacupfuls of rice, apples, moist sugar, cloves. 3fode.—Boil the rice in milk until three-parts done ; then strain it off, and pare and core the apples without dividing them. Put a small quantity of sugar and a clove into each apple, put the rice round them, and tie each ball separately in a cloth. Boil until the apples are tender; then take them up, remove the cloths, and serve. Time.—I hour to boil the rice separately; § to 1 hour with the apple. Seasonable from August to March. APPLE TOUETB OR CAKE. {German Reci2oe.) 1236. Ii^GEEDiEiTTS.—10 or 12 apples, sugar to taste, the rind of 1 small lemon, 3 eggs, J pint of cream or milk, ^ lb. of butter, f lb. of good short crust !N'o. 1211, 3 oz. of sweet almonds. libcZe.—Pare, core, and cut the apples into small pieces; put suffi- cient moist sugar to sweeten them into a basin ; add the lemon-peel, which should be finely minced, and the cream; stir these ingredients well, whisk the eggs, and melt the butter; mix altogether, aSd the sliced apple, and let these be well stirred into the mixture. Line a large round plate with the paste, place a narrow rim of the same round the outer edge, and lay the apples thickly in the middle. Blanch the almonds, cut them into long shreds, and strew over the top of the apples, and bake from i to f hour, taking care that the almonds do not get burnt: when done, strew some sifted sugar over the top, and serve. This tourte may be eaten either hot or cold, and is sufficient to fill 2 large-sized plates. Time.—| to f hour. Average cost, 2s, 2d, Siiflcient for 2 large-sized tourtes. Seasonalle from August to March. Apples,—L^o fruit is so univsrsally popular as the apple. It is grown extensively for' cider, but mariy sorts are cultivated for the table. The apple, uncooked, is less digest- ible than the pearj the degree of digestibility varying according to the firmness of its texture and flavour. Very wholesome and delicious jeUies, marmalades, and sweetmeats are prepared from it. Entremets of apples are made in great variety. Apples, when peeled, cored, and well cooked, are a most grateful food for the dyspeptic, ALMA PUDDING. 1237. Ingeedients.-—i lb. of fresh butter, J lb. of powdered sugar, ^ lb. of flour, f lb. of currants, 4 eggs. Jfo(?e.—Beat the butter to a thick cream, strew in, by degrees, the sugar, and mix both these well together; then dredge the flour in 2 s 2