2o0 MODERN HOUSDHOLD COOKERY. besides albumen, which are of the highest possible value as articles of food. In preparing meat for the table, great care should be taken to prevent the escape of this precious juice, as the succulence and sapidity of the meat depend on its retention. The meat to be cooked should be exposed at first to a quick heat, which immediately coagulates the albumen on and near the surface. A kind of shell is thus formed, which effectually retains the whole of the juice within the meat. 550. During the Operations of Boiling, Roasting, and Baking, fresh boef and mutton, when m.oderately fat, lose, according to Johnston, on an average about— In boiling. In baking. In roasting. 4 lbs. of beef lose lib 1 lb. 3 oz 1 lb. 5 oz. 4 lbs. of mAitton lose ... 14 oz 1 lb. 4 oz 1 lb. 6 oz. BAKING. 551. The Difference between Roasting Meat and Baking it, may bo generally described as consisting in the fact, that, in baking it, the fumes caused by the operation are not carried off in the same way as occurs in roasting. Much, however, of this disadvantage is obviated by the improved construction of modern BiEiNG-Disn. ovens, and of especially those in connection with the Leamington kitchener, of which we give an engraving here, and a full description of v/hich will be seen at paragraph No. 65, with the prices at which they can be purchased of Messrs. R. and J. Slack, of the Strand. With meat baked in the generality of ovens, however, which do not possess ventilators on the principle of this kitchener, there is undoubtedly a peculiar taste, which does not at all equal the flavour developed by roasting meat. The chemistry of baking may be said to be the same as that described in roasting. 552. Should the Oven be very brisk, it will be found necessary to cover the joint with a piece of white paper, to prevent the meat from being scorched and blackened outside, before the heat can penetrate into the inside. This paper should be removed half an hour before the time of serving dinner, so that the joint may take a good colour. 553. By Means of a Jar, many dishes, which will be enumerated under tlieir special heads, may be economically prepared in the oven. The principal of these are soup, gravies, jugged hare, beef tea; and this mode of cooking may be advantageously adopted with a ham, which has previously been covered with a common crust of flour and water.