VEGETABLES. .,,^73 confined to gardens in England; but ia Germany and Switzerland it is grown in fields. It is usually harvested by pulling up the plants, which, being dried, are stacked and thrashed. The haulm is both of little bulk and little use, but the seed is used in making the esteemed French dish called haricot, with which it were well if the working classes of this country were acquainted. There is, perhaps, no other vegetable dish so cheap and easily cooked, and, at the same time, so agreeable and nourishing. The beans are boiled, and then mixed with a little fat or salt butter, and a little milk or water and flour. From 3,840 parts of kidney-bean Einhoff obtained 1,805 parts of matter analogous to atarch, 351 of vegeto-animal matter, and 799 parts of mucilage, . HAHICOT BEANS AND MINCED ONIONS, iiai. Ingeedients.—1 quart of white haricot beans, 4 middling:- sized onions, I pint of good brown gravy, pepper and salt to taste, a little flour. 3fode.—Peel and mince the onions not too finely, and fry them m butter of a light brown colour; dredge over them a little flour, and add the gravy and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Have ready a pint of haricot beans well boiled and drained; put them with the onions and gravy, mix all well together, and serve very hot. Teme.—From 2 to 2i hours to boil the beans; 5 minutes to fry the onions. Average cost. Aid, per quart. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in winter. HOBSEBADISH. 1122. This root, scraped, is always served with hot roast beef, and is used for garnishing many kinds of boiled fish. Let the horseradish remain in cold water for an ho^r; wash it well, and with a sharp knife scrape it into very thin shreds, commencing from the thick end of the root. Arrange some of it lightly in a small glass dish, and the remainder use for garnishing the joint: it should be placed in tufts round the border of the dish, with I or 2 bunches on I the meat. Average cost, 2d, per stick. Seasonable from October to June. The Hoksekadish.—This belongs to the tribe Alyssidce, and is highly stimulant and exciting to the stomach. It has been recommended in chronic rheumatism, palsy, dropsical complaints, and in cases of enfeebled digestion. Its principal use, however, is as a condiment to promote appetite and excite the digestive organs. The horseradish contains sulphur to the extent of thirty per cent, in the number of its elements; and it is to the presence of this quality that the metal vessels in which the radish is some- times distilled, are turned into a black colour. It is one I of the most powerful excitants and antiscorbutics we have, j and forms the basis of several medical preparations, in the form of wines, tinctures, and syrups, hobsebabish.