BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 867 moulds or cake-tins, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. The mixture must be extremely well beaten up, and not allowed to stand after the soda is added to it, but must be placed in the oven immediately. Great care must also be taken that the cakes are quite done through, which may be ascertained by thrusting a knife into the middle of them : if the blade looks bright when withdrawn, they are done. If the tops acquire too much colour before the inside is suffi- ciently baked, cover them over with a piece of clean white paper, to prevent them from burning. Ti7ne,—1 hour. Average costy Is. Q>d. Sujficient to make 2 small cakes. Seasonable at any time. SAVOY CAKE. 1782. Ingeedients.—The weight of 4 eggs in pounded loaf sugar, the weight of 7 in flour, a little grated lemon-rind, or essence of almonds, or orange-flower water. 3fode.—Break the 7 eggs, putting the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. Whisk the former, and mix with them the sugar, the grated lemon-rind, or any other flavouring to taste; beat them well together, and add the whites of the eggs, whisked to a froth. Put in the flour by degrees, continuing to beat the mixture for j hour, butter a mould, pour in the cake, and bake it from 1? to hour, This is a very nice cake for dessert, and may be iced for a supper- table, or cut into slices and spread with jam, which converts it into sandwiches. ! Time.—li to 1^ hour. Average costf Is. Sufficient for 1 cake. Seasonable at any time. SPONGE-CAKE. I. 1783. Ingsedients.—The weight of 8 eggs in pounded loaf sugar, the weight of 5 in flour, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 tabiespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Put the eggs into one side of the scale, and take the weight of 8 in pounded loaf sugar, and the weight of 5 in good drij flour. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; beat the former, put them into a saucepan with the sugar, and let them remain over the fire until milk'iva7in, keeping them well stirred. Then put them into a basin, add the grated lemon-rind mixed with the brandy, and stir these well together, dredging in the flour very gradually, 3 K 2