517 VEGETABLES. that nitrogen, which was believed to bo present only in animals, enters largely into the composition of plants also. When the microscope is brought to aid our powers of observation, we find that there are organized bodies belonging to the vegetable kingdom which possess very evident powers of locomotion, and which change about in so very remarkable a manner, that no other causa than that of volition can be assigned to it." Thus it would seem that, in this particular at least, some vegetables bear a very close resemblance to animal life; and when we consider the manner in which they are supplied with nourish- ment, and perform the functions of their existence, the resemblance would seem still closer. If, for example, we take a thin transverse slice of the stem of any plant, or a slice cut across its stem, and immerse it in a little puro water, and place it under a microscope, we will find that it consists princi- pally of cells, more or less regular, and resembling those of a honeycomb CP.LLULAR DEVELOPMENT. or a network of cobweb. The size of these varies in different plants, as it does in different parts of the same plant, and they are sometimes so minute as to require a million to cover a square inch of surface. This singular struc- ture, besides containing water and air, is the repository or storehouse of various secretions. Through it, the sap, when produced, is diffused sideways through the plant, and by it numerous clianges are effected in the juices which fill its cells. The forms of the cells are various ; they are also subject to various transformations. Sometimes a number of cylindrical cells are laid end to end, and, by the absorption of the transvei'se partitions, form a continuous tube, as in the sap-vessels of plants, or in muscular and nervous fibre ; and when cells are thus woven together, they are called cellular tissue, which, in the hum.an body, forms a fine net-like membrane, envelo2:)ing or connecting most of its structures. In pulpy fruits, the cells may be easily separated one from the other; and within the cells are smaller cells, commonly known as pulp. Among the cell-contents of some plants are beautiful crystals, called raphidcs. The terra is derived from pa^tQ, a needle, on account of the resemblance of I the crystrd to a needle. They are composed of the phosphatQ and oxalate of 1 2 N 2