CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. 711 Suificient, with wine, syrup, fruit, &c., to fill two moderate-sized moulds. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The above, when boiled, should be pcr.dctly clear, and may be mixed warm with wine, flavourings, fruits, &c., and then run through the bag. Isinglass.'—The best isinp^lass is brought from Hussia; some of an inferior kind is brouglit from North and South America and the East Indies : the several varieties may be had from the -wholesale dealers in isinglass in London. In choosing isinglass for domestic use, select that which is whitest, has no unpleasant odour, and which dissolves most readily in water. The inferior kinds are used for fining beer, and similar purposes. Isinglass is much adulterated: to test its purity, take a few threads of the substance, drop some into boiling-water, some into cold water, and some into vinegar. In the boiling water the isinglass wiU dissolve, in cold water it will become white and " cloudy," and in vinegar it will swell and become jelly-like. If the isinglass is adulterated with gelatine (th-at is to say, the commoner sorts of gelatine,—for isinglass is classed amongst gelatines, of all which varieties it is the very purest and best), in boiling -water the gelatine •will not so completely dissolve as the isinglass; in cold water it becomes clear and jelly- like; and in vinegar'it will harden. Hov/ TO mouijD bottled JSLLIES. 1414. Uncoek the bottle; place it in a saucepan of hot water until the jelly is reduced to a liquid state ; taste it, to ascertain whether it is sufficiently flavoured, and if not, add a little wine. Pour the jelly into moulds which have been soaked in water; let it set, and turn it out by placing the mould in hot water for a minute ; then wipe the outside, put a dish on the top, and turn it over quickly. The jelly should then slip easily away from the mould, and be quite firm. It may bo garnished as taste dictates, TO CliAHIITY SYBUP FOB JEIiLIES. 415. Ingkedieis'ts.--To every quart of water allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar; the white of 1 egg. Mode—Vut the sugar and water into a stewpan ; set it on the fire, and, when the sugar is dissolved, add the white of the egg, whipped np with a little water. Whisk the whole well together, and simmer very gently until it has thrown up all the scum. Take this off* as it rises, strain the syrup through a fine sieve or cloth into a basin, and keep it for use. CALF'S-PEET JELLY. 1416. Ingesdients.—1 quart of calf's-feet stock No. 1411, i lb. of sugar, i pint of sherry, 1 glass of brandy, the shells and whites of 5 eggs, the rind and juice of 2 lemons, i oz. of isinglass. Jfoc?e.—Prepare the stock as directed in recipe No. 1411, taking care