MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 784 sure it, and to every pint allow the above proportion of sugar and fruit. Put the sugar into the preserving-pan, moisten it with the juice, boil it up, skim well, and then add the mulberries, which should be ripe, but not soft enough to break to a pulp. Let them stand in the syrup till warm through, then set them on the fire to boil gently; when half done, turn them carefully into an earthen pan, and let them remain till the next day; then boil them as before, and when the syrup is thick, and becomes firm when cold, put the preserve into pots. In making this, care should be taken not to break the mul- berries : this may be avoided by very gentle stirring, and by simmer- ing the fruit very slowly. Time.—J hour to extract the juice; i hour to boil the mulberries the fij-st time, ~ hour the second time. Seasonable in August and September. MuLBEREY.—Mulberries are esteemed for their highly aromatic flavour, and their sub-acid nature. They are considered as coohng, laxative, and generally wholesome. This fruit was very highly esteemed by the Eonians, who appear to have preferred it to every other. The mulberry-tree is stated to have been in- troduced into this country in 1548, being first planted at Sion House, where the original trees still thrive. The planting of them was much encouraged by King James I. about 1605; and considerable attempts were made at that time to rear silkworms on a large scale for the purpose of making silk; but these endeavours have always failed, the climate being scarcely warni MULBEEET. CnOUgh. TO PBESERVE MOBELLO CHERRIES. 1561. Ingredients.—To every lb. of cherries allow Ij lb. of sugar, 1 gill of water. Ifode.—Select ripe cherries ; pick off the stalks, and reject all that have any blemishes. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes; put in the cherries, and boil them for 10 minutes, removing the scum as it rises. Then turn the fruit» &c. into a pan, and let it remain until the next day, when boil it all again for another 10 minutes, and, if necessary, skim well. Put the cherries into small pots ; pour over them the syrup, and, when cold, cover down with oiled papers, and the tops of the jars with tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg, and keep in a dry place. Time.—Altogether, 25 minutes to boil. Average cost^ from Sd. to 10c?. per lb. pot. Seasonable,—Make this in July or August. The CniiERT-TEEE ik Eome.—The Cherry-tree was introduced into Rome by Lucnl- lus, about seventy years before the Christian era; but the capital of the world knew not