CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETO. 723 then strain it into a basin, and add the beaten yolks of eggs. Put this mixture into a jug ; place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and stir the contents until they thicken, but do not allow them to boil. Take the cream ofi" the fire, stir in the lemon-juice and isinglass, which should be melted, and whip well; fill a mould, place it in ice if at hand, and, when set, turn it out on a dish, and garnic^h as taste may dictate. The mixture may be whipped and drained, and then put into small glasses, when this mode of serving is preferred. Time.—From 5 to 8 minutes to stir the mixture in the jug. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 2s. Gd. Sufficient to fill li-pint mould. Seasonable at any time. THE HIDDSIf MOTOTTAIIT. (A j^reitT/ S'lqyper Dish.) 1433. INGREDIENTS.—G cggs, a few slices of citron, sugar to taste, J pint of cream, a layer of any kind of jam. Mode.~JjQ<:it the whites and yolks of the eggs separately; then mix them and beat well again, adding a few thin slices of citron, the cream, and sulncient pounded sugar to sweeten it nicely. When the mixture is well beaten, put it into a buttered pan, and fry the same as a pancake; but it should be three times the thickness of an ordi- nary pancake. Cover it with jam, and garnish with slices of citron and holly-leaves. This dish is served cold. Time.—About 10 minutes to fry the mixture. Average cost, with the jam, Is. 4f/. St4rfflcient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time JAUISrSMATTGE. ,1439. Ingeedients.—1 oz. of isinglass, 1 pint of water, J pint of white Tv^ine, the rind and juice of 1 large lemon, sugar to taste, the yolks of 6 eggs. 3Iode.—Put the isinglass, water, and Icmon-rind into a saucepan, and boil gently until the former is dissolved; then add the strained lemon-juice, the wine, and sufficient white sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. Boil for 2 or 3 minutes, strain the mixture into a jug, and add the yolks of the eggs, which should be well beaten ; place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water; keep stirring the mixture one tea?/ until it I thickens, but do not alloio it to boil ; then take it oiF the fire, and keep I stirring until nearly cold. Pour it into a mould, omitting the sedi- ment at the bottom of the jug, and let it remain until quite firm. 3 A 2