578 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Time.—I hour to boil, 2 hours to bake. Average cost, medium-sized, 2d, each. Suficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to January. Tee Genus Allium.—The Onion, like the Leek, Garlic, and Shalot, belongs to the g:enu3 Allium^ which is a numerous species of vegetable j and every one of them possesses, more or less, a volatile and acrid pene- trating principle, pricking the thin transparent membrane of the eyelids ; and all are very similar in their properties. In the whole of them the bulb is the most active part, and any one of them may supply the place of the other; for they are all irritant, excitant, and vesicant. With many, the onion is a very great favourite, and is considered an extremely nutritive vegetable. The Spanish kind is frequently taken for supper, it being simply boiled, and then seasoned with salt, pepper, and butter. Some dredge on a little flour, but many prefer it without this. BUBISTT OHIOISrS FOR GRAVIES. 1130. Ikgkedients.—J lb. of onions, f pint of water, i lb. of moist sugar, I pint of vinegar. Mode.—Peel and chop the onions fine, and put them into a stewpan (not tinned), with the water; let them boil for 5 minutes, then add the sugar, and simmer gently until the mixture becomes nearly black and throws out bubbles of smoke. Have ready the above proportion of boiling vinegar, strain the liquor gradually to it, and keep stirring with a wooden spoon until it is well incorporated. When cold, bottle for use. JVme.—Altogether, 1 hour. Properties of the Onion".—The onion is possessed of a white, acrid, volatile oil, holding sulf)hur in solution, albumen, a good deal of uncrystallizable sugar and muci- lage ; phosphoric acid, both free and combined with lime; acetic acid, citrate of lime, and lignine. Of all the species of allium, the onion has the volatile principle in the greatest degree ; and hence it is impossible to separate the scales of the root without the eyes being affected. The juice is sensibly acid, and is capable of being, by fermentation, converted into vinegar, and, mixed with water or the dregs of beer, yields, by distillation, an alcoholic liquor. Although used as a common esculent, onions are not suited to aU stomachs; there are some who cannot eat them either fried or roasted, whilst others prefer them boiled, which is the best way "of using them, as, by the process they then undergo, they are deprived of their essential oil. The pulp of roasted onions, vydth oil, forms an excellent anodyne and emoUient poultice to suppurating tumours. STEWED SPANISH ONIONS. 1131. Ik-gsedients.—5 or 6 Spanish onions, 1 pint of good broth or gravy. Mode.—Peel the onions, taking care not to cut away too much of the tops or tails, or they would then fall to pieces ; put them into a stewpan capable of holding them at the bottom without piling them one on the top of another; add the broth or gravy, and simmer very gently until the oniony are perfectly tender. Dish them, pour the gravy round, and serve. Instead of using broth, Spanish onions may