VEGETABLES. BOILED BKOCOLI. 1095. Ingeedients.—To each i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tahlespoonful of salt; brocoli. ifibc/e.—Strip off the dead outside leaves, and the inside ones cut off level with the flower; cut off the stalk close at the bottom, and put the brocoli into cold salt and water, with the heads downwards. When they have re- mained in this for about f hour, and they are perfectl?/ free from insects, put them into a saucepan of hoiling water, salted in the above proportion, and keep them boiling quickly over a brisk fire, with the saucepan uncovered. Take them up v^ ith a slice the moment they are done ; drain them well, and serve vvith a tureen of melted butter, a little of which should be poured over the brocoli. If left in the water after it is done, it will break, its colour will be spoiled, and its crispness gone. Time.—Small brocoli, 10 to 15 minutes; large one, 20 to 25 minutes. Average cost, 2d. each. Sitfficieiit,—2 for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from October to March; plentiful in Feb- ruary and March. The Kohl-Eabi, or Tuhnip-Cabuagt:.—This variety pi'esents a singular development, inasmucli as the stem swells out like a large turnip on the surface of the ground, the leaves shooting from it all round, and the top being surmounted by a cluster of leaves issuing from it. Although not generally grown as a garden vegetable, if VLr-,ed when young and tender, it is wholesome, nutritious, and very palatable. BOILED BBUSSEIiS SPROUTS. J 096. Ingredients.—To each i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tahlespoonful of salt; a veri/ small piece of soda. 3Iode,—Clean the sprouts from insects, nicely v/ash tbem, and pick off any dead or discoloured leaves from the outsides ; put them into a saucepan of hoiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion ; keep the pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly over a brisk fire until tender; drain, dish, and serve with a tureen of melted butter, or with a maitre d'hotel sauce poured over them. Another mode of serving is, when they are dished, to stir in about li oz. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. They must, however, be sent to table very quickly, as, being so very small, this vegetable soon cools. Where the cook is very expeditious, this vegetable, when cooked, may be