HOUSEHOLD MANAGEME^^T. 990 sition.) When briglit grates are once neglected,, small rust-spots begin to show themselves, which a plain leather will not remove ; the following method of cleaning them must then be resorted to:—First, thoroughly clean with emery-paper ; then take a large smooth pebble from the road, sufficiently large to hold comfortably in the hand, with which rub the steel backwards and forwards one way, until the desired polish is obtained. It may appear at first to scratch, but continue rubbing, and the result will be success. The following is also an excellent i)olish for bright stoves and steel articles :— 2299. I^TGREDiENTS.—1 tablcspoonful of turpentine, 1 ditto of sweet oil, emery powder. Mode.—Mix the turpentine and sweet oil together, stirring in sufficient emery powder to make the mixture of the thickness of cream. Put it on the article with a piece of soft flannel, rub off quickly with another piece, then polish with a little dry emery powder and clean leather, 2300. The several fires lighted, the housemaid proceeds with her dusting, and polishing the several pieces of furniture in the breakfast-parlour, leaving no corner unvisited. Before sweeping the carpet, it is a good practice to sprinkle it all over with tea-leaves, which not only lay all dust, but give a slightly fragrant smell to the room. It is now in order for the reception of the family; and where there is neither footman nor parlour-maid, she now proceeds to the dressing-room, and lights her mistress's fire, if she is in the habit of having one to dress by. Her miistress is called, hot water placed in the dressing-room for her use, her clothes—as far as they are under the house- maid's charge—put beiore the fire to air, hanging a fire-guard on the bars vrhere there is one, while she proceeds to prepare the breakfast. ^301. In summer the housemaid's work is considerably abridged : she throws open the windows oi the several rooms not occupied as bedrooms, that they may receive the fresh morning air before they are. occupied; she prepares the breakfast-room by sweeping the carpet, rubbing tables and chairs, dusting mantel-shelf and picture-frames with a light brush, dusting the larniture, and beating and sweeping the rug; she cleans the grate when necessary, and replaces the white paper or arranges the shavings with which it is filled, leaving eveiything clean and tidy lor breakfast. It is not enough, however, in cleaning furniture, just to pass lightly over the surface ; the rims and legs of tables, and the backs and legs of chairs and sofas, should be rubbed vigorously daily ; if there is a book-case, every corner of every pane and ledge reqirlres to be carefully wiped, so that not a speck of dust can be found in the room. 2302. After the breakfast-room is finished, the housemaid should proceed to sweep down the stairs, comm.encing at the top, whilst the cook has the charge of the hall, door-step, and passages. After this she should go into the drawing-room, cover up every article of lurniture that is likely to spoil, with