FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. 63 writing under tlie date of 1548, says, " The English cultivated scarcely any vegetables be* fore the last two centuries. At the commencement of the reiga of Henry VIII. neither salad, nor carrots, nor cabbages, nor radishes, nor any other comestibles of a like nature, were grown in any part of the kingdom; they came from Holland and Flanders." The original of all the cabbage tribe is the wild iDlant sea-coleworty which is to be found wasting whatever sweetness it may have on the desert air, on many of the clilTs of the south coast of England. In this state, it scarcely weighs more than half an ounce, yet, in a cultivated state, to what dimensions can it be made to grow! However greatly the whole of the tribe is esteemed among the moderns, by the ancients they were held in yet higher estimation. The Egyp- tians adored and raised altars to them, and the Greeks and Komans ascribed many of the most exalted virtues to them. Cato affirmed, that the cabbage cured aU diseases, and de- clared, that it was to its use that the Komans were enabled to live in health and without the assistance of physicians for 600 , years. It was introduced by that people into Germany, Gaul, - and, no doubt, Britain; although, in this last, it may have been suffered to pass into desuetude for some centuries. The whole tribe is m general wholesome and nutritive, and forms a valuable adjunct to animal food. CABBAGE SEEDINa. SOUP A LA CANTATBICE. {An Excellent Soup, very Beneficial for the Voice.) 119. Ingredients.—3 oz. of sago, | pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 lump of sugar, and seasoning to taste, 1 bay-leaf (if liked), 2 quarts of medium stock ITo. 105. Having washed the sago in boiling water, let it be gra- dually added to the nearly boiling stock. Simmer for \ an hour, when it should be well dissolved. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add to them the boiling cream; stir these quickly in the soup, and serve immediately. Do not let the soup boil, or the eggs will curdle; Time,—40 minutes. Average cost, Is, 6c?. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This is a soup, the principal ingredients of which, sago and eggs, have always been deemed very beneficial to the chest and throat. In various quantities, and in different preparations, these have been partaken of by the principal singers of the day, including the celebrated Swedish Nightingale, Jenny Lind, and, as they have always avowed, with considerable advantage to the voice, in singing. GAEROT SOUP. I. 120. Ii^-GREDiENTS.—4 quarts of liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, a few beef-bones, 6 large carrots, 2 large onions, 1 turnip ; seasoning of salt and pepper to taste; cayenne. Mode.—Put the liquor, bones, onions, turnip, pepper, and salt, into a stewpan, and simmer for 3 hours. Scrape and cut the carrots thin,