HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 978 the coat and waistcoat^ carefully brushed and folded, and the collar cleanedj are laid in their place ready to put on when required. All the articles of the toilet should be in their places, the razors properly set and stropped, and hot water ready for use. 2236. Gentlemen generally prefer performing the operation of shaving them- selves, but a valet should be prepared to do it if required; and he should, besides, be a good hairdresser. Shaving over, he has to brush the hair, beard, and moustache, where that appendage is encouraged, arranging the whole simply and gracefully, according to the age and style of countenance. Every fortnight, or three v/eeks at the utmost, the hair should be cut, and the points of the whiskers trimmed as often as required. A good valet will now present the various articles of the toilet as they are wanted ; afterwards, the body-linen, neck-tie, which he will put on, if required, and, afterwards, waist- coat, coat, and boots, in suitable order, and carefully brushed and polished. 2237. Having thus seen his master dressed, if he is about to go out, the valet will hand him his cane, gloves, and hat, the latter well brushed on the outside with a soft brush, and wiped inside with a clean handkerchief, respect- fully attend him to the door, and open it for him, and receive his last orders for the day. 2238. He now proceeds to put everything in order in the dressing-room, cleans the combs and brushes, and brushes and folds up any clothes that may be left about the room, and puts them away in the drawers. 2239. Gentlemen are sometimes indifferent as to their clothes and appear- ance ; it is the valet's duty, in this case, where his master permits it, to select from the wardrobe such things as are suitable for the occasion, eo that he may appear with scrupulous neatness and cleanliness; that his linen and neck-tie, where that is white or coloured, are unsoiled; and where he is not accustomed to change them every day, that the cravat is turned, and even ironed, to remove the crease of the previous fold. The coat collar,—which where the hair is oily and worn long, is apt to get greasy^—should also be ex£imined ; a careful valet will correct this by removing the spots day by day as they appear, first by moistening the grease-spots with a little rectified spirits of wine or spirits of hartshorn, which has a renovating effect, and the smell of which soon disappears. The grease is dissolved and removed by gentle scraping. The grease removed, add a little more of the spirit, and rub with a piece of clean cloth; finish by adding a few drops more ; rub it with the pftlm of the hand, in the direction of the. grain of the cloth, and it will be clean and glossy as the rest of the garment. 2240. Polish for the boots is an important matter to the valet, and not always to be obtained good by purchase; never so good, perhaps, as he can make for himself after the following recipes :—Take of ivory-black and treacle each 4 oz., sulphuric acid 1 oz., best olive-oil 2 spoonfuls, best white-wine vinegar 3 half-pints : mix the ivory-black and treacle well in an earthen jar ; then add the sulphuric acid, continuing to stir the mixture ; next pour in the oil; and, lastly, add the vinegar, stirring it in by degrees, until thoroughly incorporated.