287 BEEP. TO DKESS A BULLOCK'S HEART, 615. Ingbebients.—1 heart, stuffing of veal forcemeat, ITo. 417. Mode.—Put the heart into warm water to soak for 2 hours; then wipe it well with a cloth, and, after cutting off the lobes, stuff the inside with a highly-seasoned forcemeat (No. 417). Fasten it in, by means of a needle and coarse thread ; tie the heart up in paper, and set it before a good fire, being very particular to keep it well basted, or it will eat dry, there being very little of its own fat. Two or three minutes before serving, remove the paper, baste well, and serve with good gravy and red-currant jelly or melted butter. If the heart is very large, it will require 2 hours, and, covered with a caul, may be baked as well as roasted. Time.—Large heart, 2 hours. Average cost^ 25. Qd, Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. Note.—This is an excellent family dish, is very savoury, and, though not seen at many good tables, may be recommended for its cheapness and economy. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK (Cold Meat Cookery). 616. Ingredients.—A few thin slices of cold boiled beef; butter, cabbage, 1 sliced onion, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Fvy the slices of beef gently in a little butter, taking care not to dry them up. Lay them on a flat dish, and cover with fried greens. The greens may be prepared from cabbage sprouts or green savoys. They should be boiled till tender, well drained, minced, and placed, till quite hot, in a frying-pan, with butter, a sliced onion, and seasoning of pepper and salt. When the onion is done, it is ready to serve. T^me.—Altogether, i hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold beef, 3(?* Seasonable at any time. COLLARED BEEF. 617. iNaREDiENTS.—7 Ibs. of the thin end of the flank of beef, 2 oz. of coarse sugar, 6 oz. of salt, 1 oz. of saltpetre, 1 large handful j of parsley minced, 1 dessertspoonful of minced sage, a bunch of savoury herbs, i teaspoonful of pounded allspice; salt and pepper to I taste. j i!fof?e.--Choose fine tender beef, but not too fat; lay it in a dish;