793- MODERN HOUSEHOUD COOKERY. Jibf?£?.—Wipe the rliubarb perfectly dry, take off the string or peel, and weigh it; put it into a preserving-pan, with sugar in the above proportion ; mince the lemon-rind very finely, add it to the other in- gredients, and place the preserving-pan by the side of the fire ; keep stirring to prevent the rhubarb from burning, and when the sugar is well dissolved, put the pan more over the fire, and let the j am boil until it is done, taking care to keep it well skimmed and stirred with a wooden or silver spoon. Pour it into pots, and cover down with oiled and egged papers. Time.—li the rhubarb is young and tender, f hour, reckoning from the time it simmers equally ; old rhubarb, 1? to li hour. Average costf 5d, to 7d. per lb. pot. Sufficient,—About 1 pint of sliced rhubarb to fill a lb. pot; Seasonable from February to April, RHUBABB AE'D CKATTGE JAM, to resemble Scotcll Marmalade. 1591. Ingredients.—1 quart of finely-cut rhubarb, 6 oranges, li lb. of loaf sugar. Mode,—Peel the oranges; remove as much of the white pith as possible, divide them, and take out the pips; slice the pulp into a preserving-pan, add the rind of half the oranges cut into thin strips, and the loaf sugar, which should be broken small. Peel the rhubarb, cut it into thin pieces, put it to the oranges, and stir altogether over a gentle fire until the jam is done. Eemove all the scum as it rises, put the preserve into pots, and, when cold, cover down. Should the rhubarb be very old, ste-w it alone for \ hour before the other ingredients are added. Time,—f to 1 hour. Average cost^ from Qd, to 8(?. per lb. pot* Seasonable from February to April, \ BASPBEHlHy AjXTD CURRANT, or any Fresh Fruit Salad» {A Dessert Dish.) 1592. Ifode.—'Fvmt salads are made by stripping the fruit from the stalks, piling it on a dish, and sprinkling over it finely-pounded sugar. They may be made of strawberries, raspberries, currants, or any of these fruits mixed; peaches also make a very good salad. After the sugar is sprinkled over, about 6 large tablespoonfuls of wine or brandy, or 3 tablespoonfuls of liqueur, should be poured in the middle of the fruit; and, when the flavour is liked, a little pounded cinna- mon may be added. In helping the fruit, it should be lightly stirred^ that the wine and sugar may be equally distributed.