629 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from August to Marci^. Apuicots.—The apricot is indigenous to tho plains of Armenia, but is now cultivated in almost every climate, temperate or tropical. There are several varieties. The skin of this fruit has a perfumed flavour, liighly esteemed. A good apricot, when perfectly ripe, is an excellent fruit. It has been somewhat condemned for its laxative qualities, but this has possibly arisen from the fruit having been eaten unripe, or in too great excess. Delicate persons should not eat the apricot uncooked, without a liberal allovvauca of powdered sugar. The apricot makes excellent jam and marmalade, and there aro several foreign preparations of it which are considered great luxuries. 3AKBD OB BOILED ABROWBOOT PUDDmG. 1240. Ingeedients.—2 tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, 1^ pint of milk, 1 oz. of butter, tlie rind of f lemon, 2 heaped tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg. ilibfZe.—Mix the arrowroot with as much cold milk as will make it into a smooth batter, moderately thick ; put the remainder of the milk into a stewpan Y\ath the lemon-peel, and let it infuse for about ^ hour ; when it boils, strain it gently to the batter, stirring it all the time to keep it smooth; then add the butter ; beat this well in until thoroughly mixed, and sweeten with moist sugar. Put the mixture into a pie- dish, round which has been placed a border of paste, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake the pudding from 1 to Ij hour, in a moderate oven, or boil it the same length of time in a well-buttered basin. To enrich this pudding, stir to the other ingredients, just before it is put in the oven, 3 well-whisked eggs, and add a table- spoonful of brandy. For a nursery pudding, the addition of the latter ingredients will be found quite superfluous, as also the paste round the edge of the dish. Time,—1 to l\ hour, baked or boiled. Average cost, 7cl Sufficient for o or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Akkowroot.—In India, and in the colonies, by the process of rasping, thoy extract from a vegetable {Maranta arundinacea) a sediment nearly resembling tapioca. The grated pulp is sifted into a quantity of water, from which it is afterwards strained and dried, and the sediment thus produced is called arrowroot. Its qualities closely reseniblo" those of tapioca. A BACHELOB'S PUDDIHG. 1241. Ingeedients.—4 oz. of grated bread, 4 oz. of currants, 4 cz. of apples, 2 oz. of sugar, 3 eggs, a few drops of essence of lemon, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Pare, core, and mince the apples very finely, sufficient, when minced, to make 4 oz.; add to these the currants, which should be well washed, the grated bread, and sugar ; whisk the eggs, beat these lip with the remaining ingredients, and, when all is thoroughly mixed, put the pudding into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 3 hours. Time,—3 hours. Average cost^ 9d.