87S MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKICRT. simmering-point, but do not allow it to boil; then filter it a second time, put it into a clean and dry bottle, cork it well, and it will remain good for several days. Two tablespoonfuls of this essence are quite sufficient for a breakfast-cupful of hot milk. This essence will be found particularly useful to those persons who have to rise extremely early ; and having only the milk to make boiling, is very easily and quickly prepared. When the essence is bottled, pour another 3 tea- cupfuls of hoiling water slowly on the grounds, which, when filtered through, will be a very weak coffee. The next time there is essence to be prepared, make this weak coffee boiling, and pour it on the ground coffee instead of plain water: by this means a better coffee will be obtained. Never throw away the grounds without having made use of them in this manner ; and always cork the bottle well that contains this preparation, until the day that it is wanted for making the fresh essence. Time.—To be filtered once, then brought to the boiling-point, and filtered again. Average cost, with coffee at Is. ^d, per lb., Q>d. Sufficient,—Allow 2 tablespoonfuls for a breakfast-cupful of hot milk. TO BOAST COFFEE. {A French Hecij^e.) 1809. It being an acknowledged fact that Frcnck coffee is clocideclly superior to that made in England, and as tlie roasting of the berry is of great impor- tance to the flavour of the preparation, it will be useful and interesting to know how they manage these things in France. In Paris, there are two houses justly celebrated for the flavour of their coffee,—La liaison Corcellet and La Maison Royer de Charires; and to obtain this flavour, before roasting they add to every 3 lbs. of coffee a piece of butter the size oi a nut, and a dessert- spoonful of powdered sugar: it is then roasted in the usual manner. Tho addition of the butter and sugar develops the flavour and aroma of the berry; but it must be borne in mind, that tho quality oi the butter must be o.. tho very best description. TO MAKE COFFEE. 1810. Ingeedients.—Allow 4 oz., or 1 tablespoonful, of ground coffee to each person; to every oz. of coffee allow i pint of water. 3fode.—To make coffee good, it should never he hoiled, but the boil- ing water merely poured on it, the same as for tea. The coffee should always be purchased in the berry,—if possible, freshly roasted; and it should never be ground long before it is wanted for use. There are very many new kinds of coffee-pots, but the method of making the