MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 472 Mode.—Take tlie breasts and nice white meat from the fowls; cut it into small dice of an equal size, and throw them into some good Bechamel, made by recipe Ko. 367 ; season with salt and caj'enne, and put the mixture into a dish to cool. When this preparation is quite cold, cut it into 2 equal parts, which should be made into honcUns of a long shape, the size of the dish they are intended to bo served on; roll them in flour, egg ;and bread-crumb them, and be careful that the ends are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they would break in the frying-pan; fry them a nice colour, put them before the fire to drain the greasy moisture from them, and serve with the remainder of the Bechamel poured round : this should be thinned with a little stock. Time.—10 minutes to fry the boudins. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl, Is. 3c?. Sufficient for 1 entree. Sm JoHTJ- Sebbigtit s Bantams.—Above all Bantams is placed, the celebrated and beautiful breed called Sir John Sebright's Silver Bantams. This breed, which Sir John brought to perfection after years of careful trials, is very small, with un- feathered legs, and a rose comb and short hackles. The plumage is gold or silver, span- gled, every feather being of a golden orange, or of a silver white, with a glossy jet-black margin; the cocks have the tail folded like that of a hen, with the sickle feathers short- ened straight, or nearly so, and broader than usual. The term hen-cocks is, in consequence, often applied to them; but although the sickle feathers are thus modified, no bird i)0ssesse3 higher courage, or a more gallant carriage. The attitude of the cock is, indeed, singularly , , proud; and he is often seen to bear himself so SEBKIGIIT BAK"TAMS, haughtily, that his head, thrown back as if in disdain, nearly touches the two upper feathers— sickles they can scarcely be called—of his tail. Half-bred birds of this kind are not un- common, but birds of the pure breed are not to be obtained without trouble and expense; indeed, some time ago, it Avas almost impossible to procure either a fowl or an egg. ** The finest," says the writer whom we have consulted as to this breed, " we have ever seen, were in Sir John's poultry-yard, adjacent to Turuham-Greeu Common, in the byroad leading to Acton." FOWL A LA MAYONITAISE. 962. Ingeedients.—A cold roast fowl, Mayonnaise sauce No. 468, 4 or 5 young lettuces, 4 hard-boiled eggs, a few water-cresses, endive. 3Iode,—Q\\i the fowl into neat joints, lay them in a deep dish, piling them high in the centre, sauce the fowl with Mayonnaise made by recipe No. 468, and garnish the dish with young lettuces cut in halves, water-cresses, endive, and hard-boiled eggs: these may be sliced in rings, or laid on the dish whole, cutting off at the bottom a piece of the white, to make the egg stand. All kinds of cold meat and solid fish may be dressed a la Mayonnaise, and make excellent luncheon or supper dishes. The sauce should not be poured over the fowls until