122 MODERN HOUSBHOLD COOKERT. butter. Brown either before tbe fire or with a salamander, and garnish with toasted bread cut in fanciful shapes. Time.—| hour. Average cost, exclusive of the fish, Qd, The Habitat or the Cod.—This fisli is found only in tlie seas of tlie northern parts of the world, between the latitudes of 45° and 66°. Its great rendezvous are the sand- banks of l^ewfoundland, Nova Scotia, CajDe Breton, and New England. These places are its favourite resorts; for there it is able to obtain great quantities of worms, a food peculiarly grateful to it. Another cause of its attachment to these places has been said to be on account of the vicinity to the Polar seas, where it returns to spawn. Eew are taken north of Iceland, and the shoals never reach so far south as the Straits of Gibraltar. Many are taken on the coasts of Norway, in the Baltic, and off the Orkneys, which, prior to the discovery of ISTewfoundland, formed one of the pi-incipal fisheries. The London market is supplied by those taken between the Dogger Bank, the Well Bank, and Cromer, on the east coast of England. COD A IiA MAITHS D'HOTSL. 240. Ingeedients.—2 slices of cod, ^ lb. of butter, a little chopped shalot and parslej^; pepper to taste, | teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, or rather less, when the flavour is not liked ; the juice of J lemon. Mode.—Boil the cod, and either leave it whole, or, what is still better, flake it from the bone, and take off the skin. Put it into a stewpan with the butter, parsley, shalot, pepper, and nutmeg. Melt the butter gradually, and be very careful that it does not become like oil. When all is well mixed and thoroughly hot, add the lemon-juice, and serve. Time.—J hour. Average cost, 2s. 6d.; with remains of cold fish, 5d. Seasonable from !N"ovember to March, Sufficient for 4 persons. Note.—Cod that has been left will do for this. The Seasoi!T ros Fishiitg Cod.—The best season for catching cod is from the beginniug of February to the end of April; and although each fisherman engaged in taking them, catches no more than one at a time, an expert hand will sometimes take four hundred in a day. The employment is excessively fatiguing, from the weight of the fish as well as from the coldness of the climate. COD A L'lTAIiIElTNE. 241. Ikgeedients.—2 slices of crimped cod, 1 shalot, 1 slice of ham minced very fine, i pint of white stock, No. 107 ; when liked, J teacupful of cream ; salt to taste; a few drops of garlic vinegar, a little lemon-juice, f teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Jibf/e.—Chop the shalots, mince the ham very fine, pour on the stock, and simmer for 15 minutes. If the colour should not be good, add cream in the above proportion, and strain it through a fine sieve; season it, and put in the vinegar, lemon-juice, and sugar. jCTow boil the cod, take out the middle bone, and skin it; put it on the dish without breaking, and pour the sauca over it.