557 VEGETABLES. Tunc—Ahout i ^ouv to boil the beans; 10 minutes to shake tliem ever the fire. Average cost, in full season, about Is, id. a peck. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable frona the middle of July to the end of September. BOILED BROAD OR WINDSOR BEANS. 1092. Ingredients.—To each gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; beans. Mode—This is a favourite vegetable with many persons, but to be nice, should be young and freshly gathered. After shelling the beans, put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion, and let them boil rapidly until tender. Drain them well in a colan- der; dish, and serve with them separately a tureen of parsley and butter. Boiled bacon should always accompany this vegetable, but the beans should be cooked separately. It is usually served with the beans laid round, and the parsley and butter in a tureen. Beans also make an excellent garnish to a ham, and when used for this purpose, if very old, should have their skins removed. Time.—Yery young beans, 15 minutes; when of a moderate size, 20 to 25 minutes, or longer. Average cost, unshelled, 6d. per peck. Sufficient.—Allow one peck for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in July and August. NuTKiTiVE Propeeties oe THE Beatt.—Tlic produce of beans in meal is, like tliat of Eeas, more in proportion to the grain than in any of the cereal grasses. A bushel of cans is supposed to yield fourteen pounds more of £l*ur than a bushel of oats; and a bushel of peas eighteen pounds moi'e, or, according to some, twenty pounds. A thou- sand parts of bean flour were found by Sir 11. Davy to yield 570 parts of nutritive matter, of which 426 were mucilage or starch, 103 gluten, and 41 extract, or matter rendered insoluble during the process. BROAD BEANS A LA POULETTE. 1093. Ingredients.—2 pints of broad beans, ^ pint of stock or broth, a small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, a small lump of sugar, the yolk of 1 egg, i pint of cream, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Procure some young and freshly-gathered beans, and shell sufficient to make 2 pints; boil them, as in the preceding recipe, until nearly done; then drain them and put them into a stewpan, with the stock, finely-minced herbs, and sugar. Stew the beans until perfectly tender, and the liquor has dried away a little; then beat up the yolk of an egg with the cream, add this to the beans, let the whole get