MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEIIT. 20i FBIED BREAD FOB BOBDSBS. 426. Proceed as above, by frying some slices of bread cuf". iu any fanciful shape. When quite crisp, dip one side of the sippet into the beaten white of an egg- mixed with a little flour, and place it on the edge of the dish. Continue in this manner till the border is completed, arranging the sippets a pale and a dark one alternately. G1-SHEVESB SAITCE FOB SAIjMOST, TEOIXT, &c. 427. Ingeedients.—1 small carrot, a small faggot of sweet licrbs, including parslej-, 1 onion, 5 or 6 mushrooms (when obtainable), 1 bay- leaf, 6 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. of butler, 1 glass of sherry, li- pint of Y/hite stock, No. 107, thickening of butter and flour, the juice of half a lemon. Mode.—Cut up the onion and carrot into small rings, and put them into a stewpan with the herbs, mushrooms, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace ; add the butter, and simmer the whole very gently over a slow Are until the onion is quite tender. Pour in the stock and sherry, and stew slowly for 1 hour, when strain it ofl" into a clean saucepan. E'ow make a thickening of butter and flour, put it to the sauce, stir it over the fire until perfectly smooth and mellow, add the lemon- jaice, give one boil, when it will be ready for table. Twie.—iiltogethex 2 hours. Average cost, Is. Zd per pint. Sufficient, half this quantity for two slices of salmon. Sage.—This was originally a native of the south of Europe, but it has long been cultivated in the English garden. There arc several kinds of it, known as the green, the red, the SAGE. small-leaved, and the broad-leaved balsanyic. In cookery, its principal use is for stuffings and' sauces, for which purpose the red is the most agreeable, and the green the next. The others are used for medical purposes. 428. INGEEDIENTS.—Salt and water, 1 oz. of bruised ginger, -h oz of whole black pepper, J oz. of whole allspice, 4 cloves, 2 blades of mace, a little horseradish. This proportion of pepper, spices, &c., for 1 quart of vinegar. Mode.—IjQt the gherkins remain in salt and water for 3 or 4 days, when take them out, wipe perfectly dry, and put them into a stone jar. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, with spices and pep-