MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 900 mutton; take off all the fat; put it into a stewpan, with the other ingredients; stew very gently indeed for nearly 2 hours, and skim off every particle of fat that may rise to the surface from time to time. The celery should be cut into thin slices before it is added to the meat, and care must be taken not to put in too much of this in- gredient, or the dish will not be good. If the water is allowed to boil fast, the cutlet will be hard. Time—2 hours* very gentle stewing. Average cost, 6d, Siijjieient for 1 person. Seasonable at any time. oa| 1 EEL BROTH. 1 1866. In'GEEDIENTs.—h lb. of eels, a small bunch of sweet herbs, including parsley; i onion, 10 peppercorns, 3 pints of water, 2 cloves, salt and pepper to taste. Mode,—After having cleaned and skinned the eel, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan, with the other ingredients; simmer gently until the liquid is reduced nearly half, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Strain it through a hair sieve ; put it by in a cool place, and, when wanted, take off all the fat from the top, warm up as much as is required, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. This is a very nutritious broth, and easy of digestion. Time.—To be simmered until the liquor is reduced to half. Average cost, 6c7. Si(i[Jicient to make pint of broth. Seasonable from June to March. EGa WINE. 1867. Ik-geedients.—1 egg, 1 tablespoonful and i glass of cold water, 1 glass of sherry, sugar and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Beat the egg, mixing with it a tablespoonful of cold water; make the wine-and-water hot, but not boiling ; pour it on the egg, stir- rii] g all the time. Add sufficient lump sugar to sweeten the mixture, and a little grated nutmeg; put all into a very clean saucepan, set it on a gentle fire, and stir the contents one way until they thicken, but do not alloiv them to boil. Serve in a glass with sippets of toasted bread or plain crisp biscuits. When the egg is not warmed, the mixture will be found easier of digestion, but it is not so pleasant a drink. Siifjicient for 1 person. TO MAKE GilUEIi. 1868. Ingredients.—1 tablespoonful of Hobinson*s patent groats, 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, 1 pint of boiling water.