882 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Time.—To stand covered 24 hours ; to be boiled 1 hour , f Average cost, v^^hen made at home, 3s. Qd. per gallon. ,> '| Seasonahle.—Make this in September. Elder-beeey WixNTE—The elder-berry is -^vell adapted for the production of wine; its juice contains a considerable portion of the principle necessary for a vigorous fermentation, and its beautiful colour communicates a rich tint to the wine made from it. It is, however, deficient in sweetness, nnd therefore demands an addition of sugar. It is one of tlie very best of the genuine old English wines ; and a cup of it mulled, just previous to retiring to bed on a winter night, is a, thing to be " run for," as Cobbett would say : it is not, ELDER-BEKKiES. however, agreeable to every taste. GmaER WINE. 1819. iNGPtEDiEiTTS.—To 9 gallons of water allow 27 lbs. of loaf sugar, 9 lemons, 12 oz. of bruised ginger, 3 tablespoonfuls of yeast, 2 lbs. of raisins stoned and chopped, 1 pint of brandy. Mode.-~Bo^ together for 1 hour in a copper (let it previously be well scoured and beautifully clean) the water, sugar, lemon-rindsj and bruised ginger; remove every particle of scum as it rises, and when the liquor is sufficiently boiled, put it into a large tub or pan, as it must not remain in the copper. When nearly cold, add the yeast, which must be thick and very fresh, and, the next day, put all in a dry cask with the strained lemon-juice and chopped raisins. Stir the wine every day for a fortnight; then add the brandy, stop the cask down by degrees, and in a few weeks it will be fit to bottle. Average cost^ 2s. per gallon. Snffictent to make 9 gallons of wine. Seaso7ialle.—The best time for making this wine is either in March- or September. Note.—'Wm.Q made early in March will be fit to bottle in June. GOOSEBEBIIY VIIsTEQAB. {An Excellent Recipe.) 1820. Ii?'GiiEDiENTS.~2 pecks of crystal gooseberries, 6 gallons of water, 12 lbs. of foots sugar of the coarsest brown quality. 3£ode.—Mash the gooseberries (which should be quite ripe) in a tub with a mallet; put to them the water nearly milk-warm; let this stand 24 hours; then strain it through a sieve, and put the sugar to it; mix it well, and tun it. These proportions are for a 9-gallon cask; and if it be not quite full, more water must be added. Let the mix- ture be stirred from the bottom of the cask two or three times daily for three or four days, to assist the melting of the sugar ; then paste a piece of linen cloth over the bunghole, and set the cask in a warm place, htt not in the sim; any corner of a warm kitchen is the best