107 TKS NATURAL HISTORY OF FISHES. a steamship, to dart forward witli a celerity proportioned to the muscular force with which it is employed. 202. The Bodies of Fishes are mostly covered with a kind of horny scales ; but some are almost entirely without them, or have them so minute as to be almost invisible ; as is the case with the eel. The object of these is to preserve them from injury by the pressure of the water, or the sudden contact with pebbles, rocks, or sea-weeds. Others, again, are enveloped in a fatty, olea- ginous substance, also intended as a defence against the friction of the water ; and those in which the scales are small, are supplied with a larger quantity of slimy matter. 203. The Respiration of Fishes is effected by means of those comb-liko organs which are placed on each side of the neck, and which are called gills. It is curious to watch the process of breathing as it is performed by the finny tribes. It seems to be so continuous, that it might almost pass for sin illustra- tion of the vexed problem which conceals the secret of perpetual motion. In performing it, they fill their mouths with water, which .they drive backwards with a force so great as to open the large flap, to allow it to escape behind. In this operation all, or a great portion, of the air contained in the water, is left among the leather-like processes of the gills, and is carried into the body, there to perform its part in the animal economy. In proof of this, it has been ascertained that, if the water in which fishes are put, is, by any means, denuded of its air, they immediately seek the surface, and begin to gasp for it. HencC;, distilled water is to them what a vacuum made by an air-pump, is to most other animals. For this reason, when a fishpond, or other aqueous receptacle in which fishes are kept, is entirely frozen over, it is necessary to make holes in the ice, not so especially for the purpose of feeding them, as for that of giving them air to breathe. 204. The Positions of the Teeth of Fishes are well calculated to excite our amazement; for, in some cases, these are situatedin the jaws, some- times on the tongue or palate, and sometimes even in the throat. They are in general sharp-pointed and immovable ; but in the carp they are obtuse, and in the pike so easily moved as to seem to have no deeper hold than such as the mere skin can afford. In the herring, the tongue is set with teeth, to enable it the better, it is supposed, to retain its food. 205. Although Naturalists have DmDED Fishes into two great tribes-, the osseous and the cartilaginous, yet the distinction is not very precise ; for the first have a great deal of cartilage, and the second, at any rate, a portion of calcareous matter in their bones. It may, therefore, be said that the bones of fishes form a kind of intermediate substance between true bones and cartilages. The backbone extends through the whole length of the body, and consists ol vertebra), strong and thick towards the head, but weaker and more slender as it approaches the tail. Each species has a determinate number of vertebrra.