MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEP.Y. trim the knuckle, and wash and wipe it very clean ; plunge it into sufficient boiling water to cover it; let it boil up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, where it should remain till the finger can be borne in the water. Then place it sufficiently near the fire, that the water may gently simmer, and be very careful that it does not boil fast, or the meat will be bard. Skim well, add a little salt, and in about 2j hours alter the water begins to simmer, a moderate-sized leg of mutton will be done. Serve with carrots and mashed turnips, which may be boiled with the meat, and send caper sauce (Ko. 382) to table w^ith it in a tureen. Time.—A moderate-sized leg of mutton of 9 lbs., 2\ hours after the water boils ; one of 12 lbs., 3 hours. Average cost^ S^d, per lb. Sufficient.—A moderate-sized leg of mutton for 6 or 8 persons. Seasomihle nearly all the year, but not so good in June, July, and August. Note.—When meat is liked very tlwrouglily cooked, allow more time tliaa stated above. The liquor this joint v;as boiled in should be converted into soup. The Good Shepherd.—The sheep's complete dependence upon the shepherd for protection from its numerous enemies is frequently referred to in the Bible; tlius tlie Psalmist likens himself to a lost sheep, and prays the Almighty to seek his servant; and our Saviour, when despatching his twelve chosen disciples to preach the Gospel amongst their unbelieving brethren, com];)ares them to lambs going ampngst wolves. The shepherd of the East, by kind treatment, calls forth from his sheep unmistakable signs of affection. The sheei5 obey his voice and recognize the names by which he calls them, and they follow him in and out of the fold. The beautiful figure of the " good shepherd," which so often occurs in the New Testament, expresses the tenderness of the Saviour for mankind. " The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep."—John, x. 11. "I am the good sheplierd, and know my sheep, and am known by mine."—John, x. 11. " And other sheep I have which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice : and there shall be one fold and one shepherd."—John, x. 16. BOISTED LEG- OF MUTTOJSr STUFFED. 706. IxGEEDiENTS.—A Small leg of mutton, weighing 6 or 7 lbs., forcemeat, ISTo. 417, 2 shalots finely minced. J/oc^e.—Make a forcemeat by recipe J^o. 417, to which add 2 finely- minced shalots. Bone the leg of mutton, without spoiling the skin, and cut off a great deal of the fat. Fill the hole up whence the bone was taken, with the forcemeat, and sew it up underneath, to prevent its falling out. Bind and tie it up compactly, and roast it before a nice clear fire for about 2i hours or rather longer; remove the tape and send it to table with a good gravy. It may be glazed or not, as preferred. Time.-~2\ hours, or rather longer. Average cost, 45. 8(1. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time.