d03 BEEF. flavour with any store sauce tliat may be preferred. Give one boil, pour over the meat, and serve. Time.—-2. hours. Average costy Is. per pound. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. II. {Economical.) 651. Ingeedients.—The remains of underdone cold roast beef, bread crumbs, 1 shalot finely minced, pepper and salt to taste, gravy made from the beef bones, thickening of butter and fiour, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Ifode.—Cut some slices of underdone roast beef about half an inch thick; sprinkle over them some bread crumbs, minced shalot, and a little of the fat and seasoning ^ roll them, and fasten with a small skewer. Have ready some gravy made from the beef bones ; put in the pieces of meat, and stew them till tender, which will be in about I5 hour, or rather longer. Arrange the meat in a dish, thicken and flavour the gravy, and pour it over the meat, when it is ready to serve. Time.—1^ hour. Average costy exclusive of the beef, 2d. Seasonalle at any time. BBOILED OX-TAIL (an Entree). 652. IiTGHEDiENTS.—2 tails, if pint of stock, No. 105, salt and cayenne to taste, bread crumbs, 1 egg. Mode.—Joint and cut up the tails into convenient-sized pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with the stock, cayenne, and salt, and, if liked very savoury, a bunch of sweet herbs. Let them simmer gently for about 2j hours; then take them out, drain them, and let them cool. Beat an egg upon a plate; dip in each piece of tail, and, afterwards, throw them into a dish of bread crumbs ; broil them over I a clear fire, until of a brownish colour on both sides, and serve with a good gravy, or any sauce that may be preferred. Time.—About 2j hours. Average cost, from 9d. to Is. 6c?., according to the season. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. JS'ote.—These may be more easily prepared by putting the tails in a brisk oven, after they have been dipped in egg and bread-crumb ; and, when brown, I they are done. They myst be boiled the same time as for broiling.