BEEF. 285 h incli thick, fry them in hot drix^pingf, and serve in a dish Y>^ith good. gravy poured round them. Tijne.—10 minutes. A verage cost, exclusive of the cold meat, Qd, Seasonable at any time. BROILSD BESF-STSAKS or BUMP-STEAKS. 611. IifGREDiENTS.—Stcaks, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of good mushroom ketchup or Harvey's sauce. 3fode.—As the success of a good broil so much depends on tho state of the fire, see that it is bright and clear, and perfectly free from smoke, and do not add any fresh fuel just before you require to use the gridiron. Sprinkle a little salt over the fire, put on the gridiron for a few minutes, to get thoroughly hot through ; rub it with a piece of fresh suet, to prevent the meat from sticking, and lay on the steaks, which should be cut of an equal thickness, about f of an inch, or rather thinner, and level them by beating them as Utile as possible with a rolling-pin. Turn them frequently with steak-tongs (if these are not at hand, stick a fork in the edge of the fat, that no gravy escapes), and in from 8 to 10 minutes they will be done. Have ready a very hot dish, into which put the ketchup, and, when liked, a little minced shalot; dish up the steaks, rub them over with butter, and season with pepper and salt. The exact time for broiling steaks must be determined by taste, whether they are liked underdone or well done; more than from 8 to 10 minutes for a steak f inch in thickness, we think, would spoil and dry up the juices of the meat. Great expe- dition is necessary in sending broiled steaks to table; and, to have them in perfection, they should not be cooked till everything else prepared for dinner has been dished up, as their excellence entirely depends on their being served very hot. Garnish with scraped horseradish, or dices of cucumber. Oyster, tomato, onion, and many other sauces, are frequent accompaniments to rump-steak, but true lovers of this English dish generally reject all additions but pepper and salt. Twie.—8 to 10 minutes. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow i lb. to each person; if the party consist entirely of gentlemen, f lb. will not be too much. Seasonable all the year, but not good in the height of summer, as the meat cannot hang long enough to be tender. BiPPERENT Seasons pob Beep.—We have already stated {see ITo. 593) tliat tlie Scots breed of oxen, like the South-down in mutton, stands first in excellence. Ifc should be borne in mind, however, that each county has its particular season, and that tha London and other large markets are always supphed by those counties whose meat, from local circumstances, is in the best condition at the time. Thus, the season in Norfolk, from which the Scots come (these being the principal oxen bred by the lS"orfolk