MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 551 white sauce, made by recipe 'No. 538 ; disli the artichokes, pour over them the sauce, and place between each a fine Brussels sprout: these should be boiled separately, and not with the artichokes. 2i7ne.—About 20 minutes. Average cost^ 2d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from September to June. The Jerusalem Aktichoee.—This plant is well known, being, for its tubers cultivated not only as a garden vegetable, but also as an agricultural crop. By many it is much esteemed as an esculent, when cooked in various ways; and the domesticated animals eat both the fresh fohage and the tubers with great rehsh. By some, they are not r^nlvr considered nourishing, but even fattening, ^ BOIIjED aspakagus. 1087. Ingeedients—To each i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; asparagus. Iflode—Aspaiagus should be dressed as soon as possible after it is cut, although it may be kept for a day or two by putting the stalks into cold water ; yet, to be good, like every other vegetable, it cannot be cooked too fresh. Scrape the white part of the stems, hegiiining from the head, and throw them into cold water; then tie them into ASPARAGUS Oir TOAST. ASPARAGUS TONGS. bundles of about 20 each, keeping the heads all one woj', and cut the stalks evenly, that they may all be the same length ; put them into boiling water, with salt in the above proportion ; keep them boiling quickly until tender, with the saucepan uncovered. When the aspa- ragus is done, dish it upon toast, which bhould be dipped in the water it was cooked in, and leave the white ends outwards each way, with the points meetirg in the middle. Serve v/ith a tureen of melted butter. Ti/ne.—15 to 18 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, in full season, 25. 6d. the 100 heads. Sufficient,—KWow about 50 heads for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable.—May be had, forced, from January but cheapest in May, June, and July. Asparagus.—This plant belongs to the variously-featured family of the order LilincecB, which, in the temperate regions of both hemispheres, are most abundant, and, between the tropica, gigantic in size and arborescent in form. Asparagus is a native of Great Britain, and is found on various parts of the seacoast, and in the fens of Lincolnshire. At Kynarve Cove, in Cornwall, there is an island called " Asparagus Island," from the abun- dance in which it is there found. The uses to which the young shoots are applied, and the manure in which they are cultivated in order to bring them to the highest stnte of excellence, hava ASPAEAGUS. been a study with many kitchen-gardeners.