226 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. the bottle is full; cover closely to exclude the air, and let it infuse for a fortnight. Then strain the liquor, and put it into small bottles for use, of which the corks should be sealed. Seasonahh^—Thxs should be made in June, July, or August. MIXED PICKLE. {Very Good.) 471. IiTGEEDTENTS.—To each gallon of vinegar allow \ lb. of bruised ginger, \ lb. of mustard, ^ lb. of salt, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, l-k oz. of turmeric, 1 oz. of ground black pepper, J oz. of cayenne, cauliflowers, onions, celery, sliced cucumbers, gherkins, French beans, nasturtiums, capsicums. Mode.—Have a large jar, with a tightly-fitting lid, in which put as much vinegar as required, reserving a little to mix the various powders to a smooth paste. Put into a basin the mustard, turmeric, pepper, and cayenne ; mix them with vinegar, and stir well until no lumps remain; add all the ingredients to the vinegar, and mix well. Keep this liquor in a warm place, and thoroughly stir every morning for a month with a wooden spoon, when it will be ready for the dijfferent vegetables to be added to it. As these come into season, have them gathered on a dry day, and, after merely wiping them with a cloth, to free them from moisture, put them into the pickle. The cauliflowers, it may be said, must be divided into small bunches. Put all these into the pickle raw, and at the^end of the season, when there have been added as many of the vegetables as could be pro- cured, store it away in jars, and tie over with bladder. As none of the ingredients are boiled, this pickle will not be fit to eat till 12 months have elapsed. Whilst the pickle is being made, keep a wooden spoon tied to the jar; and its contents, it may be repeated, must be stirred every morning. Seasonahle.—Make the pickle-liquor in May or June, as the season arrives for the various vegetables to be picked. MUSHROOM KETCHUP. 472. Ti^TGEEDlENTS.—To each peck of mushrooms f lb. of salt; to each quart of mushroom-liquor J oz. of cayenne, i oz. of allspice, ^ oz. of ginger, 2 blades of pounded mace. Mode.—Choose full-grown mushroom-flaps, and take care they are perfectly fresh-gathered when the weather is tolerably dry; for, if they are picked during very heavy rain, the ketchup from which they are made is liable to get musty, and will not keep long. Put'