653 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY, to tlie otlier ingredients; put a paste round tlie dish, and bake for I hour. Tmie.—~ hour. Average costy Is. 2d . Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. Lemoi^.—The lemon is a variety of tlic citron. The juice of this fruit makes one of our most pojiular and refreshing beverages—lemonade, which is gently stimulating and cool- iug, and soon quenches the thirst. It may be freely par- taken by bilious and sanguine temperaments; but persons with irritable stomachs should avoid it, on account of its acid qualities. The fresh rind of the lemon is a gentle tonic, and, when dried and grated, is used in flavouring a variety of culi- nary preparations. Lemons appear in company with, ths orange in most orange-growing countries. They were only known to the Eomans ata very late jDcriod, and, at first, were used only to keep the moths from their garments : their acidity was unpleasant to them. In the time of Pliny, the lemon was hardly known otherwise than as an excellent LEMOIT. eounter-poison III. (VevT/ rich.) 1297. Ingeedients.—The rind and juice of 2 large lemons, i lb. of loaf sugar, i pint of cream, the yolks of 8 eggs, 2 oz. of almonds, i lb. of butter, melted. 3£ode.—Mix. the pounded sugar with the cream, and add the yolks of eggs and the butter, which should be previously warmed. Blanch and pound the almonds, and put these, with the grated rind and strained juice of the lemons, to the other ingredients. Stir all well together; line a dish with puff-paste, put in the mixture, and bake for 1 hour. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. BOILED LEMOIT PUDDING. 1298. Ingeedients.—-2- lb. of chopped suet, | lb. of bread crumbs, 2 small lemons, 6 oz. of moist sugar, J lb. of flour, 2 eggs, milk. Mode.—Mix the suet, bread crumbs, sugar, and flour well together, adding the lemon-peel, which should be very finely minced, and the juice, which should be strained. When these ingredients are well mixed, moisten with the eggs and sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter ; put it into a well-buttered mould, I and boil for 34 hours; turn it out, strew sifted sugar over, and serve I with wine sauce, or not, at pleasure. Time.—3j hours. Average cost, \s. I Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. ] N'cte.—This pudding may also be baked, and will be found very good- It Iwill take about 2 hours.