MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 718 with the lemon-juice and sherry; add the isicglass, which should be dissolved in a little water, and beat up the cream well. Place a little in an oiled mould; arrange the pieces of cptke in the cream; then fill the mould with the remainder; let it cool, and turn it out on a dish. By oiling the mould, the cream will have a much smoother appearance^ and will turn out more easily than when merely dipped in cold water. Average cost, 2s, Sufficient to fill a 1 J-pint mould. SeasonahJe at any time. BOILED GUSTAEDS. 1423. Ingeedients.—1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 3 laurel-leaves, or the rind of i lemon, or a few drops of essence of vanilla, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. 3fode.—Put the milk into a lined saucepan, with the sugar, and whichever of the above flavourings may be preferred (the lemon-rind flavours custards most delici- ously), and let the milk steep by the side of the fire until it is well flavoured. Bring it to the point of boiling, then strain it into a basin; whisk the eggs well, and, when the milk has cooled a little, stir in the eggs, and strain this mixture into a jug. Place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water over the iire; keep stirring the custard one way until it thickens; but on no account allow it to reach the boiling-point, as it will instantly curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off the fire, stir in the brandy, and, when this is well mixed with the custard, pour it into glasses, which should be rather more than three-parts full; grate a little nutmeg over the top, and the dish is ready for table. To make custards look and eat better, ducks' eggs should be used, when obtainable ; they add very much to the flavour and richness, and so many are not required as of the ordinary eggs, 4 ducks* eggs to the pint of milk making a deli- cious custard. When desired extremely rich and good, cream should be substituted for the milk, and double the quantity of eggs used, to those mentioned, omitting the Vvhites. Time.—^ hour to infuse the lemon-rind, about 10 minutes to stir the custard. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient to -fill 8 custard-glasses. Seasonable at any time. G-mGER APPLES. (A pretty Supper or Dessert Dislu) 1424. Ingeedients.-—li oz. of whole ginger, I pint of whiskey, 3 lbs. of apples, 2 lbs. of white sugar, the juice of 2 lemons.