IJODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERr. 728 the sugar, rubbed off the lemon-rind, and add the strained juice. Strain the lemonade into a saucepan, and add the yolks of the eggs, which should be well beaten ; stir this one icay over the fire until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, and serve in custard- glasses, or on a glass dish. After the boiling water is poured on the sugar and lemon, it should stand covered for about i hour before the eggs are added to it, that the flavour of the rind may be extracted. Time.—i hour to make the lemonade ; about 10 minutes to stir the custard over the fire. Average cost, Is. Sufficient to fill 12 to 14 custard-glasses. Seasonahle at any time. LEMON JELLY. 1447. Ingredients.—6 lemons, Jib. of lump sugar, 1 pint of water, oz. of isinglass, i pint of sherry. Mode.—Peel 3 of the lemons, pour | pint of boiling water on the rind, and let it infuse for J hour; put the sugar, isinglass, and i pint of water into a lined saucepan, and boil these ingredients for 20 minutes; then put in the strained lemon-juice, the strained infusion of the rind, and bring the whole to the point of boiling; skim well, add the wine, and run the jelly through a bag; pour it into a mould that has been wetted or soaked in water; put it in ice, if convenient, where let it remain until required for table. Pre- viously to adding the lemon-juice to the other ingredients, ascertain that it is very nicely strained, as, if this is not properly attended to, it is liable to make the jelly thick and muddy. As this jelly is very pale, and almost colourless, it answers very well for moulding with a jelly of any bright hue ; for instance, half a jelly bright red, and the other half made of the above, would have a very good eflect. Lemon jelly may also be made with calf's-feet stock, allowing the juice of 3 lemons to every pint of stock. Time.—Altogether, 1 hour. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 2s. 9J. Sufficient to fill ij-pint mould. Seasonahle at any time. LEMON SPONGE. 1448. Ingeedients.—2 oz. of isinglass, l| pint of water, J lb. of pounded sugar, the juice of 5 lemons, the rind of 1, the whites of 3 eggs. Mode.—Dissolve the isinglass in the water, strain it into a sauce- pan, and add the sugar, lemon-rind, and juice. Boil the whole from 10 to 15 minutes ; strain it again, and let it stand till it is cold and begins to stiffen. Beat the whites of the eggs, put them to it, and