HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1080 of some cases very successfully treated by nearly similar means. Dr. Corrigan's plan was, however, to touch the surface of the part affected, at intervals of half an inch, as lightly and rapidly as possible. Dr. Day has found greater advantages to result from drawing the flat surface of the heated button lightly over the affected part, so as to act on a greater extent of surface. The doctor speaks so enthusiastically of the benefit to be derived from this practice, that it is evidently highly deserving attention. 2646. Palpitation of the Heart.—Where palpitation occurs as sympto- matic of indigestion, the treatment must be directed to remedy that disorder ; when it is consequent on a plethoric state, purgatives will be effectual. In this case the patient should abstain from every kind of diet likely to produce a plethoric condition of body. Animal food and fermented liquor must be particularly avoided. Too much indulgence in sleep will also prove injurious. When the attacks arise from nervous irritability, the excitement must be allayed by change of air and a tonic diet. Should the palpitation originate from organic derangement, it must be, of course, beyond domestic manage- ment. Luxurious living, indolence, and tight-lacing often produce this affec* lion : such cases are to be conquered with a little resolution. 2517. Poisons shall be the next subject for remark ; and we anticipate more detailed instruc- tions for the treatment of persons poisoned, by giving a simple List OF the riHNCiFAL Poisons, with their Antidotes or Remedies. Oil of Vitriol 1 Aquafortis > Magnesia, Chalk, Soap-and-Water, Spirit of Salt J Emetic Tartar Oily Drinks, Solution of Oak-bark. Salt of Lemons, or Cbalk, Whiting, Lime, or Magnesia and Water. Some* Acid of Sugar / times an Emetic Draught. . A / Pump on back, Smelling-Salts to nose, Artificial Breath- PrussicAcid I iug. Chloride of Lime to uose. Pearlash Soap-Lees J |??^^mng-Salts J>Lemon-Juice and Vincgar-and-Water. Hartshorn , Sal-Volatile Arsenic "j 1 Emetics, Lime-Water, Soap-and-Water, Sugar-and- White Arsenic \ Water, Oily Drinks. Kmg s Yellow, or j ' Yellow Arsenic J Mercury T Corrosive Sublimate > Whites of Eggs, Soap-and-Water, Calomel J Q . - f Emetic Draught, Vinegar-and-Water, dashing Cold To„^ol„*^'i Water on chest and face, walking up and down for Laudanum "(^ two or three hours.