688 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, ilibfZe—Wash the tapioca, and let it stew gently in the milk by the side of the fire for i hour, occasionally stirring it; then let it cool a little ; mix with it the butter, sugar, and eggs, which should be well beaten, and flavour with either of the above ingredients, putting in about 12 drops of the essence of almonds or vanilla, whichever is pre- ferred. Butter a pie-dish, and line the edges with puff-paste; put in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. If the pudding is boiled, add a little more tapioca, and boil it in a buttered basin 1^ hour. Tinie.—l hour to bake, ll hour to boil. Average cost, Is. 2d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasoncihle at any time. Tapioca.—Tapioca is recommended to tlie convalescent, as being easy of digestion. It may be used in soup or broth, or mixed with milk or water, and butter. It is excellent food for either the liealthy or sick, for the reason that it is so quickly digested without fatigue to the stomach, TAETLETS, 1371. Iis'GBEDiENTS.—Trimmings of puff-paste, any jam or marma- lade that may be preferred. Mode.—RoW out the paste to the thickness of about J inch; butter some small round patty-pans, line them with it, and cut off the super- fluous paste close to the edge of the pan. Put a small piece of bread into each tartlet (this is to keep them in shape), and bake in a brisk oven for about 10 minutes, or rather longer. When they are done, and are of a nice colour, take the pieces of- bread out DISH OP TAETLETs. carcfully, and replace them by a spoonful of jam or marmalade. Dish them high on a white d*oyley, piled high in the centre, and serve. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, Id. each. Sufficient—! lb. of paste will make 2 dishes of tartlets. Seasonable at any time. BOLLED TEEACLE PUDDUSTG. 1372. Ikgeedients.—1 lb. of suet crust No. 1215, i lb. of treacle, i teaspoonful of grated ginger. ilibdfe.—Make, with 1 lb, of flour, a suet crust by recipe No. 1215; roll it out to the thickness of -3- inch, and spread the treacle equally over it, leaving a small margin where the paste joins; close the ends securely, tie the pudding in a floured cloth, plunge-it into boiling water, and boil for 2 hours. "We have inserted this pudding, being economical, and a favourite one with children ; it is, of course, only suitable for a nursery, or very plain family dinner. Made with a lard