892 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEIIY. incorporated; and, to insnre success, the processes of mixing: must be diligently attended to. Sufficient,—Allow a quart for 4 persons; but this information must be taken cum grano salts; for the capacities of persons for this kind of beverage are generally supposed to vary considerably. Punch is a beverage made of yarious spirituous liquors or wine, liot water, the acid juice of fruits, and sugar. It is considered to be very iptoxicating; but this is probably because the spirit, being partly sheathed by the mucilaginous juice and the sugar, its strength does not appear to the taste so great as it really is. Punch, which was almost universally drunk among the middle classes about iifty or sixty years ago, has almost disappeared from our domestic tables, being superseded by wine. There are many « diiFerent varieties of punch. It is sometimes kept cold in bottles, and makes a most • agreeable summer drink. In Scotland, instead of the Madeira or sherry generally used ; in its manufacture, whiskey is substituted, and then its insidious properties are more than usually felt. Where fresh lemons cannot be had for punch or similar beverages, : crystallized citric acid and a few drops of the essence of lemon will be very nearly the .' same thing. In the composition of " Eegent's punch," champagne, brandy, and veritable ; 2Iartinique 2iVQ required; " Norfolk punchrequires Seville oranges; "Milk punch" : may be extemporized by adding a little hot milk to lemonade, and then straining it through . a jelly-bag. Then there are " Wine punch," " Tea punch," and " French punch," made \ with lemons, spirits, and wine, in fantastic proportions. But of all the compounds of i these materials, perhaps, for a summer drink, the Korth-Americau " mint julep" is the most inviting. Captain Mariyat gives the following recipe for its preparation :—" Put into a tumbler about a dozen sprigs of the tender shoots of mint; upon them put a spoonful of white sugar, and equal proportions of peach and common brandy, so as to fill up one third, or, perhaps, a little less; then take rasped or pounded ice, and fill up the tumbler. Epicures rub the lips of the tumbler with a piece of fresh pineapple; and the tnmbler itself is very often encrusted outside with stalactites of ice. As the ice melts, you drink." The Virginians, says Captain Marryat, claim the merit of having invented this superb compound; but, from a passage in the *' Comus " of Milton, he claims it for his own country. 1840. Ingeedisnts.—1 lb. of ripe white currants, the rind of 2 lemons, I oz. of grated ginger, 1 quart of whiskey, 1 lb. of lump sugar. Jibf/f?.—Strip the currants from the stalks ; put them into a large jug; add the lemon-rind, ginger, and whiskey; cover the jug closely, and let it remain covered for 24 hours. Strain through a hair sieve, add the lump sugar, and let it stand 12 hours longer; then bottle, and cork well. Tiyne,—To stand 24 hours before being strained; 12 hours after the sugar is added. Seasonahle,—Make this in July, "WHISKSY COBDIAIi.