705 CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. through a sieve; if they should not be quite sweet enough, add a little more sugar, and put them at the bottom of the dish to form a thick layer. Stir together the milk, cream, and eggs, with a little sugar, over the fire, and let the mixture thicken, but do not allow it to reach the boiling-point. When thick, take it oif the fire ; let it cool a little, then pour it over the apples. Whip some cream wdth sugar, lemon-peel, &c., the same as for other trifles ; heap it high over the custard, and the dish is ready for table. It may be garnished as fancy dictates, with strips of bright apple jelly, slices of citron, &c. T/wi?.—From 30 to 40 minutes to stew the apples; 10 minutes to stir the custard over the fire. Average cost, Is. 6d, Sufficient for a moderate-sized trifle. Seasonahle from July to March. APKICOT CBEAM. 1405. Ij^geedients.—12 to 16 ripe apricots, \ lb. of sugar, l ^ pint of milk, the yolks of 8 eggs, 1 oz. of isinglass. il/of/^.—Divide the apricots, take out the stones, and boil them in a syrup made with i lb. of sugar and | pint of water, until they form a thin marmalade, wdiicb rub through a sieve. Boil the milk with the other ^ lb. of sugar, let it cool a little, then mix with it the yolks of eggs which have been previously well beaten; put this mixture into a jug, place this jug in boiling water, and stir it one way over the fire until it thickens; but on no account let it boil. Strain through a sieve, add the isinglass, previously boiled with a small quantity of water, and keep stirring it till nearly cold ; then mix the cream with the apricots ; stir well, put it into an oiled mould, and, if convenient, set it on ice; at any rate, in a very cool r;lace. It should turn out on the dish without any difficulty. Time,—From 20 to 30 minutes to boil the apricots. Average cost, 23 Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable in August, September, and October. Hote.—In winter-time, yv^hen fresh apricots are not obtainable, a little jam may be substituted for them. rLANC OIP APBICOTS, or CompotG of Apricots in a Haised Crust. {Siveet Entremets.) Ingeedients.—f lb. of short crust No. 1212, from 9 to 12 good-sized apricots, | pint of water, ^ lb. of sugar. J/of7e.—Make a short crust by recipe No. 1212, and line a mould with it as directed in recipe No. 1391. Boil the sugar and water 2 z