DINNERS AND DINING. CHAPTER XL. 1879. Man, it has been said, is a dining animal. Creatures of the inferior races eat and drink ; man only dines. It has also been said that he is a cook- ing animal; but some races eat food without cooking it. A Croat captain said to M. Brillat Savarin, ''When, in campaign, we feel hungry, we knock over the first animal we find, cut off a steak, powder it with salt, put it under the saddle, gallop over it for half a mile, and then eat it." Hunti^men in Dauphiny, when out shooting, have been known to kill a bird^ pluck it, salt and pepper it, and cook it by carrying it some time in their caps. It is equally true that some races of men do not dine any more than the tiger or the vulture. It is not a dinner at which sits the aboriginal Australian, who gnaws his bone half bare and then flings it behind to his squaw. And the native of Terra-del-Fuego does not dine when he gets his morsel of red clay. Dining is the privilege of civilization. The rank which a people occupy in tho grand scale may be measured by their way of taking their meals, as well as by their way of treating their women. The nation vchicli knows hov/ to dine has learnt the leading lesson of progress. It implies both the will and the skill to reduce to order, and surround with idealisms and graces, the nioro material conditions of human existence ; and wherever that will and that skill exist, life cannot be wholly ignoble. 18S0. Dinner, being the grand solid meal of the day, is a matter of con- siderable importance ; and a well-served table is a striking index of human ingenuity and resource. "Their table," says Lord B3-ron, in describing a dinner-party given by Lord and Lady Am.undeville at Norman Abbey,— " Their table was a hoard to tempt even gliosis To pass the Styx for more substantial leasts, I ^Yill not dwell upon ragouts or roasts, Albeit all human history attests That happiness for man—the hungry sinner !— Since Eve ate apples, much depends on dinner.'* And then he goes on to observe upon the curious complexity of the results produced by human cleverness and application catering for the modifications vv'hich occur in civilized life, one of the simplest of the primal instincts:— The mind is lost in mighty contemplatiou Of intellect expended on two courses; And indigestion's grand multiplication Eequires arithmetic beyond my forces. Who v.'ould suppose, from Adam's simple ration, That cookery could have cali'd forth such resources, A s form a science and a nomenclature From guIj the commonest demands of nature ? "