CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. 707 Mode.—Tilt the milk into a saucepan, with (lie isinj^lass, leiiion- rind, and sugar, and let these ingredients stand by the side of the lire until the milk is well flavoured; add the almonds, which sliould be blanched and pounded in a mortar to a paste, and let the milk just boil up; strain it through a fine sieve or muslin into a jug, add the cream, and stir the mixture occasionally until nearly cold. Let it stand for a few minutes, then pour it into the mould, which should be previously oiled with the purest salad-oil, or dipped in cold water. There will be a sediment at the bottom of the jug, which must not be poured into the mould, as, when turned out, it would very much disfigure the appearance of the blanc-mange. This blanc-mange may be made very much richer by using l| pint of cream, and melting the isinglass in § pint of boiling water. The flavour may also be very much varied by adding bay-leaves, laurel-leaves, or essence of vanilla, instead of the lemon- rind and almonds. Noj^eau, Maraschino, Cura9oa, or any favourite liqueur, added in small proportions, very much enhances the flavour of this always favourite dish. In turning it out, just loosen the edges of the blanc-mange from the mould, place a dish on it, and turn it q^uickly over : it should come out easily, and the blanc-mange have a smooth glossy appearance when the mould is oiled, which it frequently has not when it is only dipped in water. It may be garnished as fancy dictates. Time.—About H hour to steep the lemon-rind and almonds in the milk. Average cost, with cream at Is. pyr pint, Is. Si/. Svfficient to nil a quart mould. Soasonahle at any time. CHEAP BLANC-MAKGIi]. 1409. Ikgeedients.—J lb. of sugar, 1 quart of milk, li cz. of isinglass, the rind of | lemon, 4 laurel-leaves. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a lined saucepan, and boil gently until the isinglass is dis- solved ; taste it occasionally, to as- certain when it is sufficiently fla- voured with the laurel-leaves; then take them out, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire for about 2 z 2 ELAjrC-ilANGE.