1015 DUTIES OF THE NURSEMAID. with many of tliese symptoms. Measles, thrush, scarlatina, cronp, hooi^ing- congh, and other childish complaints, are all preceded by well-known symp- toms, which m.ay be alleviated and rendered less virulent by simple remedies instantaneously aiDplied. 2405. Dentition is usually the first serious trouble, bringing many other disorders in its train. The symptoms are most perceptible to the mother : the child sucks feebly, and with gums hot, inflamed, and swollen. In this case, relief is yielded by rubbing them from time to time with a little of Mrs. Johnson's soothing syrup, a valuable and perfectly safe medicine. Selfish and thought- less nurses, and mothers too, sometimes give cordials and sleeping-draughts, whose effects are too well known. 2406. Conviilsion Fits sometimes follow the feverish restlessness produced by these causes ; in which case a hot bath should be administered without delay, and the lower parts of the body rubbed, the bath being as hot as it can be without scalding the tender skin ; at the same time, the doctor should be sent for immediately, for no nurse should administer medicine in this case, unless the fits have been repeated and the doctor has left directions with her how to act. 2407. Croup is one of the most alarming diseases of childhood ; it is acconi- panied with a hoarse, croaking, ringing cough, and comes on very suddenly, and most so in strong, robust children. A yeicj hot bath should be instantly administered, followed by an emetic, either in the form of tartar-emetic, croup- powder, or a teaspoonful of ipecacuhana, wrapping the body warmly up in flannel after the bath. The slightest delay in administeriDg the bath, or the emetic, may be fatal; hence, the importance of nurses about very young children being acquainted with the symptoms. 2408. Hooping-Cough is generally preceded by the moaning noise during sleep, which even adults threatened with the disorder cannot avoid : it is fol- lowed by violent fits of coughing, which little can be done to relieve. A child attacked by this disorder should be kept as much as possible in the fresh, pui'e air, but out of draughts, and kept warm, and supplied with plenty of nourishing food. Many fatal diseases flow from this scourge of childhood, and a change to purer air, if possible, should follow convalescence. 2409. Worms are the torment of some children: the symptoms are, an unnatural craving for food, even after a full m^eal; costiveness, suddenly fol- lowed by the reverse ; fetid breath, a livid circle under the ej^es, enlarged abdomen, and picking the nose; for which the remedies must be prescribed by the doctor. 2410. Measles and Scarlatina much resemble each other in their early stages: headache, restlessness, and fretfulness are the symptoms of both.