m INVALID COOKERY. saucepan, and bring the water quickly to boil. Take the lid ofF, and continue the rapid boiling for 20 minutes, skimming it well during the procees; strain the broth into a basin; if there should be any fat left on the surface, remove it by laying a piece of thin paper on the top: the greasy particles will adhere to the paper, and so free the prepara- tion from them. To an invalid nothing is more disagreeable than broth served with a quantity of fat floating on the top ; to avoid this, it is always better to allo',v it to get thoroughly cool, the fat can then be so easily removed. Tijne.—20 minutes after the water boils. Average cost, 5cL Sujjicient to make -| pint of broth. Seasonable at any time. STEWED BABBITS IH MILK. 1874. Iiv^GKEDiEHTS.—2 very young rabbits, not nearly half grown; 1^ pint of milk, 1 blade of mace, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, a little salt and cayenne. 3Iode.~MiK the flour very smoothly with 4 tablespoonfuls of the milk, and when this is well mixed, add the remainder. Cat up the rabbits into joints, put them into a stewpan, Vvdth the milk and other ingredients, and simmer them verif genthj until quite tender. Stir the contents from time to time, to keep the milk smooth and prevent it from burning, i hour will be sufficient for the cooking of this dish. Time,—J hour. Average cost, from Is. to Is. Qch each. Saficient for 3 or 4 meals. Seasojiahle ivom September to February^ BICE-MIIiK. 1875. IitgeedieinTS.—3 tablespoonfuls of rice, 1 quart of milk, gar to taste ; when liked, a little grated nutmeg. Mode.—Well wash the rice, put it into a saucepan vv'ith the milk, and simmer gently until the rice is tender, stirring it from time to time to prevent the milk from burning ; sweeten it, add a little grated nutmeg, and serve. This dish is also very suitable and wholesome for children; it maybe flavoured with a little lemon-peel, and a little finely-minced suet may be boiled with it, which renders it more strengthening and more wholesome. Tapioca, semolina, vermicelli, and macaroni, may all be dressed in the same manner. Time.—From f to 1 hour. Seasonable at any time. TO MAKE TOAST-AISTD-WATEB. 1876. IiTGEEDiENTS.—A slico of bread, 1 quart of boiling water. Mode,—Qui a slice from a stale loaf (a piece of hard crust is better than anything else for the purpose), toast it of a nice brown on every