MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 840 pieces, skim the fat from the gravy, and pare and slice the potatoes and onions. Put all the ingredients into the stewpan in layers, first a layer of vegetables, then one of meat, and sprinkle seasoning of pepper and salt between each layer; cover closely, and let the whole stew very gently for 1 hour or rather more, shaking it frequently to prevent its burning. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost. Is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. Note.—Irish stew may be prepared in the same mamier as above, but baked in a jar instead of boiled. About 2 hours or rather more in a moderate oven will be sufficient time to bake it, ITALIATsT MUTT015" CUTLETS. 723. Ikgredieots.—About 3 lbs. of the neck of mutton, clarified butter, the yolk of 1 egg, 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 1 table- spoonful of minced savoury herbs, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced shalot, 1 saltspoonful of finely-chopped lemon- peel ; pepper, salt, and pounded mace to taste; flour, i pint of hot broth or water, 2 teaspoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, 1 teaspoonful of soy, 2 teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of port wine. IIode.—Qvit the mutton into nicely-shaped cutlets, flatten them, and trim off some of the fat, dip them in clarified butter, and then into the beaten yolk of an egg. Mix well together bread crumbs, herbs, parsley, shalot, lemon-peel, and seasoning in the above propor- tion, and cover the cutlets with these ingredients. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, lay in the cutlets, and fry them a nice brown; take them out, and keep them hot before the fire. Dredge some flour into the pan, and if there is not sufficient butter, add a little more; stir till it looks brown, then pour in the hot broth or water, and the remaining ingredients; give one boil, and pour round the cutlets. If the gravy should not be thick enough, add a little more flour. Mushrooms, when obtainable, are a great improvement to this dish, and when not i in season, mushroom-powder may be substituted for them. Time.—lQ minutes;—rather longer, should the cutlets be very thick. Average cost, 2s. 9d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle at any time. The Downs.—The well-known substance clialb, which the chemist regards as a nearly pure carbonate of lime, and the microscopist as an aggregation of inconceivably minute . shells and corals, forms the sub-soil of the hilly districts of the south-east of England. The chalk-hills known as the South Downs start from the bold promontory of BeacUy Head, { traverse the county of Sussex from east to west, and pass through Hampshire into Surrey, i The North Downs extend from Godalmiug, by Grodstone, into Kent, and terminate in the | line of cliffs which stretches from Dover to Eamsgate. The Downs are clothed with short ;