216 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. of salt, 4 shalots, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 4 iaMespoonfals of ketchup, i bottle of anchovy sauce. 3Iode.—Put the mustard, flour, and salt into a basin, and make them into a stiff paste with boiling* water. Boil the shalots with the vinegar, ketchup, and anchovy sauce, for 10 minutes, and pour the whole, toiling^ over the mixture in the basin ; stir well, and reduce it to a proper thickness ; put it into a bottle, with a bruised shalot at the bottom, and store away for use. This makes an excellent relish, and if properly prepared will keep for years. Mustard.—Before the year 1729, mustard was not known at English tables. About tliat thne an old woman, of the name of Clements, residmg in Durham, began to grind the seed in a mill, and to pass the flour through several processes necessary to free the seed from its husks. She kept her secret for many years to herself, during which she sold large quantities of mustard through- out the country, but especially in London. Here it was introduced to the royal table, when it received the apiproval of George I. From the circumstance of Mrs. Clements being a resident at Durham, it obtained the name of Durham mustard. In the county of that name it is still principally cultivated, and the MUSTAED. plant is remarkable for the rapidity of its growth. It is the best stimulant employed to impart strength to the digestive organs, and even in its previously coarsely-pounded state, had a high reputation with our ancestors. II^TDIAIM PIOKLii] (very Superior). 451. Ikgredieistts.—To each gallon of vinegar allow 6 cloves of garlic, 12 shalots, 2 sticks of sliced horseradish, \ lb. of bruised ginger, 2 oz. of whole black pepper, 1 oz. of long pepper, 1 oz. of allspice, 12 cloves, \ oz. of cayenne, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, \ lb. of mustard, 1 oz. of turmeric ; a white cabbage, cauliflowers, radish- pods, Erench beans, gherkins, small round pickling-onions, nastur- tiums, capsicums, chiiies, &c. Mode,—Cut the cabbage, v/hich must be hard and white, into slices, and the cauliflowers into small branches; sprinkle salt over them in a large dish, and let them remain two days ; then dry them, and put them into a very large jar, with garlic, shalots, horseradish, ginger, pepper, allspice, and cloves, in the above proportions. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, which pour over, and, when cold, cover up to keep them free from dust. As the other things for tho pickle ripen at diflerent times, they may be added as they are ready : these will be radish-pods, French beans, gherkins, small onions, nas- turtiums, capsicuDis, chiiies, &c. &c. As these are procured, they must, first of all, be washed in a little cold vinegar, wiped, and then simply added to the other ingredients in the large jar, only taking care that they are covered by the vinegar. If more vinegar should be wanted