CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. 739 lemon to table with them. To render the pancakes very light, the yolks and whites of the eg^s should be beaten separately, and the whites added the last thing to the batter before frying-. Time.—From 4 to 5 minutes for a pancake that does not require turning ; from 6 to 8 minutes for a thicker one. Average cost^ for 3 persons, 6d. Sufficient.—Allow 3 eggs, with the other ingredients in proportion, for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time, but specially served on Shrove Tuesday. BICHEB PANCAKES. 1463. Ingredtexts.—6 eggs, 1 pint of cream, Jib. of loaf sugar, 1 glass of sherry, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg', flour. 2Iode.—Ascertain that the eggs are extremely fresh, beat them well, strain and mix with them the cream, pounded sugar, wine, nutmeg, and as much flour as will make the batter nearly as thick as that for ordinary pancakes. Make the frying-pan hot, wipe it with a clean cloth, pour in sufficient batter to make a thin pancake, and fry it for about o minutes. Dish the pancakes piled one above the other, strew sifted sugar between each, and serve. Time—Khowi 5 minutes. Average cost, with cream at Is. per pint, 2s. 3c?. Sufficient to make 8 pancakes. Seasonable at any time, but specially served on Shrove Tuesday. PEACH FHITTEBS. 1469. Ingredients.—For the batter : |lb. of flour, oz. of butter, ■3- saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, milkpeaches, hot lard or clarified dripping. ilTofZe.—Make a nice smooth batter in the same manner as directed in recipe No. 1393, and skin, halve, and stone the peaches, which should be quite ripe ; dip them in the batter, and fry the pieces in hot lard or clarified dripping, which should be brought to the boiling- I point before the peaches are put in. From 8 to 10 minutes will be I required to fry them, and, when done, drain them before the fire, and dish them on a white d'oyley. Strew over plenty of pounded sugar, and serve. Tw?ze.—From 8 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters, 0 minutes to drain them. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in July, August, and September. 3 B 2