163 nsn. 335- Ingbedie^^^ts.—I pint of stock No. 105, I pint of Madeira or {see Forcemeats), and fill it with the part where the bones came from; roll it in buttered paper, bind it "Kp firmly with tape, like a fillet of veal, and roast it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Serve with good brown gravy, or plain melted butter. Ti7ne.—About 1 hour. Average cost^ Is. to Is. Gd. per To. Seasonable from August to March. Note.—»?turgeon may be plain-boiled, and served with Dutcli sraice. Tlio fish is very firm, and requires long boiling. Estimate of the STUEaEo;?r by the Anciektts.—B}' the ancients, tlie flesh of this fish was compared to the ambrosia of the immortals. The poet Martial passes a h'-gh eulogium upon it, and assigns it a place on the luxurious tables of the Palatine Mount. If Ave may credit a modern traveller in China, the people of that country generally entirely abstain from it, and the sovereign of the Celestial Empire confines it to his own kitchen, or dispenses it to only a few of his greatest favourites. MATEIiOT OF TENCH. 334. iNGr.EDiENTS.—i pint of stock Ko. 105, | pint of port wine, 1 dozen button onions, a few mushrooms, a faggot of herbs, 2 blades of mace, 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley, thyme, 1 shalot, 2 anchovies, 1 teacupful of stock No. 105, flour, 1 dozen oysters, the juice of | lemon ; the number of tench, according to size. 3£ode.—Scale and clean the tench, cut them into pieces, and lay them in a stewpan; add the stock, wine, onions, mushrooms, herbs, and mace, and simmer gently for I hour. Put into another stewpan all the remaining ingredients but the oysters and lemon-juice, and boil slowly for 10 minutes, when add the strained liquor from the tench, and keep stirring it over the fire until somewhat reduced. Kub it through a sieve, pour it over the tench with the oysters, which must be previously scalded in their own liquor, squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve. Garnish with croutons. Time.—| hour. Seasonahle from October to June. The Tejtch.—This fish is generally found in foul and weedy waters, and in such places as are well supplied with rushes. They thrive best in standing waters, and are more numerous in pools and ponds than in rivers. Those taken in the latter, however, are preferable for the table. It does not often exceed four or five pounds in weight, and is in England esteemed as a delicious and wholesome food. As, however, they are sometimes found in waters where the mud is excessively fetid, their flavour, if cooked im- mediately" on being caught, is often very unpleasant; but if they are transx"erred into clear water, they soon recover from the obnoxious taint. TEKCH STEWED WITH WIITE. M 2 THE TENCH,