641 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. Ifode.—Strip the currants from the stalks, and put them into a deep pie-dish, with a small cup placed in the midst, bottom upwards ; add the raspberries and sugar ; place a border of paste round the edge of the dish, cover with crust, ornament the edges, and bake from § to % hour: strew some sifted sugar over before being sent to table. This tart is more generally served cold than hot. Time.—| to % hour. Average cost^ Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Scasonahle in June, July, and August. Easpeeretes.—There ra-e two sorts of raspberries, the red and the ^Thite. Both the scent and flavour of this fruit aro , very refreshing, and the berry itself is exceedingly Avhole- some, and invaluable to people" of a nervous or bilious tem- perament. We are not aware, however, of its being cultivated with the same amount of care which is bestowed upon some other of the berry tribe, although it is far from improbable that a more careful cultivation would not be repaid by a con- I siderable improvement in the size and flavour of theberr}^; neither, as an eating fruit, is it so universally esteemed as the strawberry, with whose lusciousness and peculiarly agreeable flavour it can bear no comparison. In Scotland, it is found in Ira-ge quantities, growing wild, and is eagerly sought after, \ in the woods, by children. Its juice is rich and abundant, i and to many, extremely agreeable, raspbeehy. BAKED CUSTABD PUDDING-. 1268. Iiq-GREDiEiTTS.—li pint of milk, the rind of I lemon, | lb. of moist sugar, 4 eggs. 3fode,—Put the milk into a saucepan with the sugar and lemon- rind, and let this infuse for about ^ hour, or until the milk is well flavoured ; whisk the eggs, yolks and whites ; pour the milk to them, stirring all the while ; then have ready a pie-dish, lined at the edge with paste ready baked; strain the custard into the dish, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a ver^/ sloio oven for about i hour, or rather longer. The flavour of this pudding may be varied by substituting bitter almonds for the lemon-rind ; and it may be very much enriched by using half cream and half milk, and doubling the quantity of eggs. Time.—^ to f hour. Average cost^ dd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This pudding is usually served cold with fruit tarts. BOIIiED CUSTABD PUDDING. 1269. Ingeedients.—1 pint of milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, i eggs, flavouring to taste. ^ 2 T