THE MISTRESS. 15 ladies, attendants should be in waiting to assist in uncloaking, and helping to arrange the hair and toilet ot those who require it. It will be found convenient, in those cases where the number ot guests is large, to provide numbered tickets, so that they can be attached to the cloaks and shawls ot each lady, a duplicate of which should be handed to the guest. Coffee is sometimes provided in this, or an ante-room, for those wbo would like to partake of it. 42. As THE Visitors are announced by the Servant, it is not necessary for the lady of the House to advance each time towards the door, but merely to rise from her seat to receive their courtesies and congratulations. If, indeed, the bostess wishes to show particular favour to some peculiarly honoured guests, she may mtroduce them to others, whose acquaintance she may imagine will be especially suitable and agreeable. It is very often the practice of the master of the house to introduce one gentleman to another; but occasionally the lady performs this office ; when it will, of course, be polite for the persons thus introduced to take their seats togetber lor the time being. The custom of non-introduction is very much in vogue in many houses, and guests are thus left to discover for themselves the position and qualities of the people around them. The servant, indeed, calls out the names ot all the visitors as they arrive, but, m many instances, mispronounces them; so that it will not be well to follow this mformation, as if it were an unerring guide. In our opmion, it is a cheerless and depressmg custoni, although, in thus speaking, we do not allude to the large assembheb of the aristocj-auy, but to the smaller parties of the middle classes. 43. A Separate Koom or Convenient Buffet should be appropriated for refreshments, and to which the dancers may retire; and cakes and biscuits, with wine negus, lemonade, and ices, handed round. A supper is also mostly provided at the private parties of the middle classes; and this requires, on the part of the hostess, a great deal of attention and supervision. It usually takes place between the first and second, parts of the programme of the dances, of which there should be several prettily written or printed copies distributed about the ball-room. In private parties, a lady is not to refuse the invitation of a gentleman to dance, unless she be previously engaged. The hostess must be supposed to have asked to her house only those persons whom she knows to be perfectly respectable and of unblemished character, as well as pretty equal in position; and thus, to decline the olFer of any gentleman present, would be a tacit reflection on the master and mistress of the house. It may be mentioned here, more especially for the young who w^ill read thia book, that introductions at baUs or evening parties, cease with the occasion that calls them forth, no introduction, at these times, giving a gentleman a right to address, after- wards, a lady. She is, consequently, free, nest morning, to pass her partner at a ball of the previous evening without the slightest recognition. 44. The Ball is generally Opened, that is, the first place in the first quadrille is occupied, by the lady of the house. When anything prevents this, the host will usually lead off the dance v/ith the lady who is either the highest in rank, or the greatest stranger. It xnll bo well for the hostess, even if she be very partial to the amusement, and a graceiul nccr, not to participate in