FISH. 167 "whicli must be well drained from the butter. GarEish witli parsley and cut lemon. Time.—Altogether, k hour. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Cold turbot thus warmed in the remains of lobster sauce will be found much nicer than putting the fish again in water. FILLETS OF TUBBOT A L'ITALIEKK"E. 34^5. Ingredients.—The remains of cold turbot, Italian sauce. (See Sauces.) ilToi/e.—Clear the fish carefully from the bone, and take away all shin, which gives an unpkasant flavour to the sauce. Make tlie sauce hot, lay in the fish to warm through, but do not let it boil. Garnish with croutons. Time.—5 minutes. Seasonahle all the year. The attcient Eomaks' Estim^ate of Tttbsot,—As this luxr;rioiT= people compared soles to partridges, and sturgeons to peacocks, so they found a reseuiblanco to tlie turbot in tlie pheasant. In the time of Domitian, it is said one was taken of such dimensions as to require, in the imperial kitchen, a new stove to be erecled, and a new dish to be made for it, in order that it might be cooked and served wliole : not even imperial Rome could furnish a stove or a dish large enough for the monstrous animal. Where it was caut^ht, we are not aware; hut the turbot of the Adriatic Sea held a high rank in the *' Eternal City." TUBBOT A LA CREME. 341. Ingredients.—The remains of cold turbot. For sauce, 2 oz. of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream ; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste. Mode.—Clear away all skin and bone from the flesh of the turbot, which should be done when it comes from table, as it causes less waste when trimmed hot. Cut the flesh into nice square pieces, as equally as possible; put into a stewpan the butter, let it melt, and add the cream and seasoning ; let it just simmer for one minute, but not boil. Lay in the fish to warm, and serve it garnished witli croutons or a paste border. Time.—10 minutes. Seasonahle at any time. Note.—The remains of cold salmon may be dressed in this way, raid the above mixture may be served in a vol-au-vs)it. TURBOT AU GRATIIsr. 342. Ingredients.—Eemains of cold turbot, bechamel {sec Sauces), bread crumbs, butter.