211 SAUCES, ETC. OBAVY MADE WITHOUT MEAT EOS FOVv^LS. 439. Ingeedients.—Tlie necks, feet, livers, and gizzards of the fowls, 1 slice of toasted bread, ^ onion, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, | pint of v/ater, thickening of butter and flour, 1 dessertspoonful of ketchup. Ifot?^.—Wash the feet of the fowls thoroughly clean, and cut them and the neck into small pieces. Pat these into a stewpan with the bread, onion, herbs, seasoning, livers, and gizzards ; pour the water over them and simmer gently for 1 hour. Now take out the liver, pound it, and strain the liquor to it. Add a thickening of butter and flour, and a flavouring of mushroom ketchup ; boil it up and serve. Ti7ne,—1 hour. Average cost, 4:d. per pint. A CHEAP GRAVIT FOR HASHES, &c. 440. Inghedients. — Bones and trimmings of the cooked joint intended for hashing, 5 teaspoonful of salt, J teaspoonful of whole pepper, J teaspoonful of whole allspice, a small faggot of savoury herbs, i- head of celery, 1 onion, 1 oz. of butter, thickening, sufiicient boiling water to cover the bones. If ode.—Chop the bones in small pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with the trimmings, salt, pepper, spice, herbs, and celery. Cover with boiling water, and let the whole simmer gently for 1§ or 2 hours. Slice and fry the onion in the butter till it is of a pale brown, and mix it gradually with the gravy made from the bones ; boil for \ hour, and strain into a basin; now put it back into the stewpan; flavour with walnut pickle o!rr ketchup, pickled-onion liquor, or any store sauce that may be preferred. Thicken with a little butter and flour, kneaded together on a plate, and the gravy will be ready for use. After the thickening is added, the gravy should just boil, to take off the rawness of the flour. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, id., exclusive of the bones and trimmings. JUGGED GBAVY" (Excellent). 441. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, i lb. of lean ham, 1 onion or a few shalots, 2 pints of water, salt and whole pepper to taste, 1 blade of mace, a faggot of savoury herbs, | a large carrot, i a head of celery. Mode.—-Out up the beef and ham into sniall pieces, and slice the vegetables; take a jar, capable of holding two pints of water, and arrange therein, in layers, the ham, meat, vegetables, and seasoning, p 2