GAME. 629 jnade into a ragout, but this mode of cooking is not to be recom- mended. Mode.—Vluak off the feathers, wipe the outside of the birds with a damp cloth, and do not draw them ; truss with the head under the wing, put them down to a clear fire, and lay slices of moistened toast in the dripping-pan, to catch the trail. Keep them well hasted, dredge them lightly with flour a few minutes before they are done, and let them be nicely frothed. Dish them on the toasts, over which the trail should be equally spread. Pour round the toast a little good gravy, and send some to table in a tureen. Time—10 minutes to j hour. Average cost, Is. Qd. the brace, if plentiful. Sufficient for 2 persons. Seasonable,—In perfection from the beginning of September to the €nd of January. The PLOvr.B.—There are two species of this bird, the grey and the green, the former feeing larger than the other, and somewhat less than the woodcock. It has generally^ been ■classed with those birds which chielly live in the water; but it would seem only to seek its food there, for many of the species breed u^on the loftiest mountains. Immense flights of these birds are to be seen in the Hebrides, «nd other parts of Scotland; and, in the win- ter, large numbers are sent to the London Biarket, which is sometimes so much glutted with them that they are sold very cheap. Previous to dressing, they are kept till they have a game flavour; and although their Hesh is a favourite with many, it is not uni- the plover. Tersally relished. The green is preferred to I ihe grey, but both are inferior to the woodcock. Their eggs are esteemed as a great delicacy. Birds of this kind are migratory. They arrive ia England in April, live with j lis all the spring and summer, and at the beginning of autumn prepare to take leave by I getting together in flochs. It is supposed that they then retire to Spain, anc^ frequent the sheep-walks with -which that country abounds. TO DBESS THE PTARMIGAN. 1045. Ingredients.—2 or 3 birds; butter, flour, fried bread crumbs. Mode,—The ptarmigan, or white grouse, when young and tender, are exceedingly flne eating, and should be kept as long as possible, to be good. Pluck, draw, and truss them in the same manner as grouse, No. 1025, and roast them before a brisk fire. Tlour and froth I them nicely, and serve on buttered toast, with a tureen of brown I gravy. Bread sauce, when liked, may be sent to table with them, land fried bread crumbs substituted for the toasted bread. 1 Time.—About \ hour. Sufficient,—2 for a dish. I Seasonable from the beginning of February to the end of April, 2 M