265 VARIOUS MODES OP COOKING MEAT, ^71. This very favourite Mode of Cooking may be accurately described as boiling in fat or oil. Substances dressed in this way are generally well received, for they introduce an agreeable variety, possessing, as they do, a peculiar flavour. By moans of frying, cooks can soon satisfy many requisitions made on tliem, it being a very expeditious mode of pre- paring dishes for the table, and one which can bo employed when the fire is not sufficiently saute pan. large for the purposes of roasting and boiling. The grea,t point to be borne in mind in frying, is that the liquid must be hot enough to act instantaneously, as all the merit of this culinary operation lies in the invasion of the boiling liquid, which carbonizes or burns, at the very instant of the immersion of the body placed in it. It may be ascertained if the fat is heated to the proper degree, by cutting a piece of bread and dipping it in the frying-pan for five or six seconds ; and if it be firm and of a dark brown when taken out, put in immediately what you wish to prepare ; if it be not, let the fat be heated until of the right temperature. This having been eifected, moderate the fire, so that the action may not be too hurried, and that by a continuous heat the juices of the substance maybe preserved, and its ilavour enhanced. 572. The Philosophy of Frying consists in this, that liquids subjected to the action of fire do not all receive the same quantity of heat. Being diSer- cntly constituted in their nature, they possess different capacities for caloric." Thus, you may, with impunity, dip your finger in boiling spirits of wine; you would take it very quickly from boiling brandy, yet more raj^idly from water; whilst the effects of the most rapid immersion in boiling oil need not be told. As a consequence of this, heated fluids act differently on the sapid bodies presented to them. Those put in water, dissolve, and are reduced to a soft mass ; the result being hoiullon, stock, &c. (see No. 103). Those substances, on the contrary, treated with oil, harden, assume a more or less deep colour, and are finally carbonized. The reason of these different results is, that, in the first instance, water dissolves and extracts the interior juices of the alimentary substances placed in it; whilst, in the second, the juices are preserved ; for they are insoluble in oil. 573. It is to be especially rei-iembered, in connection with frying, that all dishes fried in fat should be placed before the fire on a piece of blotting- paper, or sieve reversed, and there left for a few minutes, so that any superfluous greasy moisture may be removed. 574. The Utensils used for the Purposes of Frying are confined to frying-pans, although these are of various sizes ; and, for small and delicate dishes, such as collops, fritters, pancakes, &c,, the smtte pan, of which v/e sive an. enQ'ravinn*. is used.