PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 687 ;^otc.—The above pudding may be boiled instead of baked ; but then ?Jlow 2 extra tablespoonfuls of sago, and boil the pudding in a buttered basin from li to 1^ hour. Sago.—Sago is the pith of a species of palm (Ci/cas cireinalis). Its form is that of a small round grain. There are two sorts of sago,—the white and the yellow; but their properties are the same. Sago absorbs the hquid in which it is cooked, becomes trans- parent and soft, and retains its original shape. Its alimentary properties are the same as those of tapioca and arrowroot. SAGO SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS. 1368. Ingeedients.—1 tablespoonful of sago, | pint of water, J pint of port or sherry, the rind and juice of 1 small lemon, sugar to taste; when the flavour is liked, a little pounded cinnamon. 3Iode,—Wash the sago in two or three waters; then put it into a saucepan, with the water and lemon-peel; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire for 10 minutes ; then take out the lemon-peel, add the remaining ingredients, give one boil, and serve. Be particular to strain the lemon-juice before adding it to the sauce. This, on trial, will be found a delicious accompaniment to various boiled puddings, such as those made of bread, raisins, rice, &c. Time.—10 minutes. Average costf 9d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. BAKED SEMOLINA PUDDING. 1369. Ingeedients.—3 oz. of semolina, 1^ pint of milk, \ lb. of sugar, 12 bitter almonds, 3 oz. of butter, 4 eggs. Mode.—Flavour the milk with the bitter almonds, by infusing them in it by the side of the fire for about \ hour; then strain it, and mix with it the semolina, sugar, and butter. Stir these ingredients over the fire for a few minutes ; then take them 0% and gradually mix in the eggs, which should be well beaten. Butter a pie-dish, line the edges with puff-paste, put in the pudding, and bake in rather a slow oven from 40 to 50 minutes. Serve with custard sauce or stewed fruit, a little of which may be poured over the pudding. Tijne,—40 to 50 minutes. Average cost, Is. 2d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Semolina.—After vermicelli, semolina is the most useful ingredient that can be used for thickening soups, meat or vegetable, of rich or simple quahty. Semohnais softening, light, wholesome, easy of digestion, and adapted to the infant, the aged, and the invalid. That of a clear yeUow colour, well dried and newly made, is the fittest for use TAPIOCA PUDDING. 1370. Ingeedients.—3 oz. of tapioca, 1 quart of milk, 2 oz. of butter, 5 lb. of sugar, 4 eggs, flavouring of vanilla, grated lemon-rind, or bitter almonds.