MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. The coM3i02T llAEE.-.This little animal is found througliout Europe, and, indeed, in most of the northern parts of the world; and as it is desti- tute of natural weapons of defence, Providence has endowed it with an extraordinary amount of the passion of fear. As if to awaken the vigilance of this passion, too. He has fur- nished it with long and tubular ears, in order that it may catch the remotest sounds; and with full, prominent eyes, which enable it to see, at one and the same time, both before and behind it. The hare feeds in the evenings, and sleeps, ; in its form, during the day; and, as it generally lies on the ' ground, its feet, both below and above, are protected with a thick covering of hair. Its flesh, though esteemed by the r llomans, was forbidden by the Druids and by the earlier Uritons. It is now, though vei'y dark and dry, and devoid of fat, much esteemed by Europeans, on account of the peculiarity of its flavour. In purcnasing this animal, it ought to be remembered that both hares and rabbits, when old, have their claws rugged and blunt, their haunches thick, and their ears dry and tough. The ears of a young hare easily tear, and it has a narrow cleft in the lip; whilst its claws are both smooth and sharp. HESSIAN SOUP. Ingredients.—Half an ox*s head, 1 pint of split peas, 8 carrots, 6 turnips, 6 potatoes, 6 onions, 1 head of celery, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of mace, a little all- spice, 4 cloves, the crumb of a French roll, 6 quarts of water. Jfof/e.—Clean the head, rub it with salt and water, and soak it for 5 hours in warm water. Simmer it in the water till tender, put it into a pan and let it cool; skim off all the fat; take out the head, and add the vegetables cut up small, and the peas which have been previously soaked; simmer them without the meat, till they are done enough to pulp through a sieve. Add the seasoning", with pieces of the meat cut up ; give one boil, and serve. Time.—4 hours. Average cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 16 persons. Note.—An excellent hash or rago{d can be made by cutting up tho nicest parts of the head, thickening and seasoning more highly a little of tho soup, find adding a glass of port wine and 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup. MOCK TUBTIiE. I. 172. Ingredients.—J a calf *s head, i lb. of butter, \ lb. of lean ham, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, a little minced lemon thyme, sweet marjoram, basil, 2 onions, a few chopped mushrooms (when obtainable), 2 shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, i bottle of Madeira or sherry, force-meat balls, cayenne, salt and mace to taste, the juice of 1 lemon and 1 Seville orange, 1 dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar, 3 quarts of best stock, Iso. 104.