673 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. BHXJBABB TABT. 1339. Ingeedients.—i lb. of puff-paste No. 1206, about 5 sticks of large rhubarb, ^ lb. of moist sugar. il/ot/^.—Make a puff-crust by recipe No. 1206 ; line tlie edges of a deep pie-dish with it, and wash, wipe, and cut the rhubarb into pieces about 1 inch long. Should it be old and tough, string it, that is to say, pare off the outside skin. Pile the fruit high in the dish, as it shrinks very much in the cooking ; put in the sugar, cover with crust, ornament the edges, and bake the tart in a well-heated oven from 4 to i hour. If wanted very nice, brush it over with the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, then sprinkle on it some sifted sugar, and put it in the oven just to set the glaze : this should be done when the tart is nearly baked. A small quantity of lemon-juice, and a little of the peel minced, are by many persons considered an improvement to the flavour of rhubarb tart. Tt7ne.—l to 'I hour. Average costj 9d, Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in spring. Ehubaeb.—This is oue of the most useful of all garden prodiictious that ai'e put into pies and puddings. It was comparatively little known till within the last twenty or thirty years, but it is now cultivated in almost every British garden. The part used is the footstalks of the leaves, which, peeled and cut into small pieces, are put into tarts, either mixed with apples or alone. When quite young, they are much better not peeled. Khubarb comes in season when apples are going out. The common rhubarb is a native of Asia ; the scarlet variety has the linest flavour. Turkey rhu- barb, the Avcll-known medicinal drug, is the root of a very elegant plant {Rheiivi pahnatim), coming to greatest perfection in Tartary. For culinary purposes, all kinds of rhubarb are the better for being blanched. EAISED PIE OP POULTBY OB GAME. 1340. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of flour allow i lb. of butter, i pint of water, the yolks of 2 eggs, \ teaspoonful of salt (these are for the crust); 1 large fowl or pheasant, a few slices of veal cutlet, a few slices of dressed ham, forcemeat, seasoning of nutmeg, allspice, pepper and salt, gravy. ilfot?^.—Make a stiff short crust with the above proportion of butter, flour, water, and eggs, and work it up very smoothly; butter a raised-pie mould, as shown in No. 1190, and line it with the paste. Previously to making the crust, bone the fowl, or whatever bird is intended to be used, lay it, breast downwards, upon a cloth, and season the inside well with pounded mace, allspice, pepper, and salt; then spread over it a layer of forcemeat, then a layer of seasoned 2 X EHTJBABB.