567 VEGETABLES. i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, I pint of wliite sauce, ^0. 537 or 538. Mode.—Have ready sufficient boiling water just to cover the celery, with salt and butter in the above proportion. Wash the celery well; cut off the decayed outside leaves, trim away the green tops, and shape the root into a point; put it into the boiling water; let it boil rapidly until tender; then take it out, drain well, place it upon a dish, and pour over about 4 pint of white sauce, made by either of the recipes 'No. 537 or 538. It may also be plainly boiled as above, placed on toast, and melted butter poured over, the same as asparagus is dished. Time.—Large heads of celery, 25 minutes, smal ones, 15 to 20 minutes, after the Vv'ater boils. Average cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from October to April. Oeigin op Celeey.—111 the marshes and ditches of this country there is to be found a very common plant, known b}' the name of Smallage. This is the wild form of celery j but, by being sul)jGcted to cultivation, it loses its acrid nature, and becomes mild and sweet. In its natural state, it has a peculiar rank, coarse taste and smell, and its root was reckoned by the ancients as one of the " five greater aperient roots." There is a variety of this in which the root becomes turnip-shaped and large. It is called CelericB, and is extensively used by the Germans, and preferred by them to celery. In a raw state, this plant does not suit weak celeky. stomachs; cooked, it is less difficult of digestion, although a large quantity should not be II. 1110. Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, pint of white stock I or weak broth, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream,, thickening of butter and : iiour, 1 blade of pounded mace, a veri/ little grated nutmeg; pepper i and salt to taste. 3/o67^.—Wash the celery, strip off the outer leaves, and cut it into lengths of about 4 inches. Put these into a saucepan, with the broth, and stew till tender, which will be in from 20 to 25 minutes; then add the remaining ingredients, simmer altogether for 4 or 5 minutes, pour into a dish, and serve. It may be garnished with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether, i hour. Average cost, 2d. per head. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from October to April. Note.—By cutting the celery into smaller pieces, by stewing it a little longer, and, when done, by pressing it through a sieve, the above stew may be converted into a pur^e of celery.