VEAL. 413 a little butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, i pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, i teaspoonful of lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 tablespoonful of sherry. 3Iode.—Cut the veal into thin slices about 3 inches in width; hack them with a knife, and grate on them the nutmeg*, mace, cayenne, and salt, and fry them in a little butter. Dish them, and make a gravy in the pan by putting in the remaining ingredients. Give one boil, and pour it over the coUops; garnish with lemon and slices of toasted bacon, rolled. Forcemeat balls may be added to this dish. If cream is not at hand, substitute the yolk of an egg beaten up well with a little milk. Time—Ahovii 5 or 7 minutes. Seasonable from May to October. Cooking Collops.—Dean Ramsay, wlio tells us, in his " Remimscences of Scottish Life and Character," a number of famous stories of the strong-headed, warm-hearted, and plain-spoken old dames of the north, gives, amongst them, the following:—A strong-minded lady of this class was inquiring the character of a cook she was about to hire. The lady who was giving the character entered a little upon the cook's moral quahfications, and described her as a very decent woman j to which the astounding reply—this was 60 years ago, and a Dean tells the story—" Oh, d n her decency can she make good collops ? " BOAST FILLET OP VEAL. 87^2. Ingredients.—Veal, forcemeat No. 417, melted butter. Mode.—Have the fillet cut according to the size required; take out the bone, and after raising the skin from the meat, put under the flap a nice forcemeat, made by recipe No. 417. Prepare sufficient of this, as there should be some left to eat cold, and to season and flavour a mince if required. Skewer and bind the veal up in a round form; dredge well with £our, put it down at some dis- tance from the fire at first, and baste con- tinually. About J hour before serving, draw it nearer the fire, that it may acquire more colour, as the outside should be of a rich brown, but not. burnt. Dish it, remove the skewers, which replace by a silver one; pour over the joint some good melted butter, and serve with either boiled ham, bacon, or pickled pork. Never omit to send a cut lemon to table with roast veal. Time.--A fillet of veal weighing 12 lbs., about 4 hours. Average cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 9 or 10 persons. Seasonable from March to October.