7^ FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. II. 151. IiTGEEDiENTS.—6 oz. of rice, the yolks of 4 eggs, h a pint of cream, rather more than 2 quarts of stock No. 105. Mode.—Boil the rice in the stock, and rub half of it through a tammy; put the stock in the stewpan, add all the rice, and simmer gently for 5 minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs, mix them with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve ; take the soup off the fire, add the eggs and cream, stirring frequently. Heat it gra- dually, stirring all the time ; but do not let it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time.~2 hours. Average cost, Is. id. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. SAGO SOUP. 152. Iiq-GEEDiENTS.-~5 oz. of sago, 2 quarts of stock No. 105. Mode.—Wash the sago in boiling water, and add it, by degrees, to the boiling stock, and simmer till the sago is entirely dissolved, and forms a sort of jelly. Time,—^Nearly an hour. Average costf lOd. per quart. Sufficient for 8 persons. Seasonable all the year. Note.—The yolks of 2 eggs_, beaten up with a little cream, previously boiled, and added at the moment of serving, much improves this soup. Sago.—The farinaceous food of this name con- stitutes the pith of the Sago tree (the Sagusfari' nifera of Linnaeus), which grows spontaneously in the East Indies and in the archipelago of the Indian Ocean. There it forms the principal farinaceous diet of the inhabitants. In order to procure it, the tree is felled and sawn in pieces. The inth. is then taken out, and x^ut in receptacles of cald water, where it is stirred until the flour separates from the filaments, and sinks to the bottom, where it is suffered to remain until the water is poured olf, when it is taken out and spread on wicker frames to dry. To give it the round granular form in which we find it come to this country, it is passed through a colander, then rubbed into little balls, and drigd. The tree is not fit for felling until it has attained a growth of seyen years, when a single -.. trunk will yield 600 lbs. weight; and, as an acre of SAGO palm. ground will grow 430 of these trees, a large return of flour is the result. The best quality has a slightly reddish hue, and easily dissolves to a jelly, in hot water. As a restorative diet, it is much uised. SEMOLIETA SOUP. 153. Ikgeedients.—5 oz. of semolina, 2 quarts of boiling stock, " No. 105, or 106.