FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. 67 of the sun, baskets, wicker-work, COCOA-JTUT PALM, and even a kind of paper for wTifcing on. Combs, brooms, torches, ropes, matting, and sailcloth are made of its fibres. With these, too, beds are made and cushions stuffed. Oars are supplied by the leaves; drinking-cups, spoons, and other domestic utensils by the shells of the nuts; milk by its juice, of which, also, a kind of honey and sugar are prepared. When fermented, it furnishes the means of intoxication ; and when the fibres are burned, their ashes supply an alkali for making soap. The buds of the tree bear a striking resemblance to cabbage when boiled; but when they are cropped, the tree dies. In a fresh state, the kernel is eaten raw, and its juice is a most agreeable and refreshing beve- rage. When the nut is imported to this country, its fruit is, in general, comparatively dry, and is considered indigestible. The KWS & BLOSSOM, tree is one of the least pro- ductive of the palm tribe. SOUP A LA CBEOY. 126. Ingeediejtts.—4 carrots, 2 sliced onions, 1 cut lettuce, and chervil; 2 oz. butter, 1 pint of lentils, the crumbs of 2 French rolls, half a teacupful of rice, 2 quarts of medium stock No. lOo. Mode.—Put the vegetables with the butter in the stewpan, and let them simmer 5 minutes ; then add the lentils and 1 pint of the stock, and stew gently for half an hour. 'Now fill it up with the remainder of the stock, let it boil another hour, and put in the crumb of the rolls. When well soaked, rub all through a tammy. Have ready the rice boiled; pour the soup over this, and serve. Time.—i j hour. Average cost, Is, 2d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Lentil.—This belongs to the legumious or jtJwZse kind of vegetables, which rank next to the corn plants in their nutritive properties. The lentil is a variety of the bean tribe, but in Eng- land is not used as human food, although considered the best of aU kinds for pigeons. On the Continent it is cultivated for soups, as well as for other preparations for the table; and among the presents which David received from Shobi, as recounted in the Scriptures, were beans, lentils, and parched pulse. Among the Egyptians it was extensively used, and among the Greeks, the Stoics had a maxim, which declared, that " a wise man acts always with reason, and prepares his own lentils." Among the Eomans it was not much esteemed, and from them the English may have inherited a prejudice against it, on account, it is said, of its rendering men indolent. It takes its name from lentus, * slow,' and, according to Pliny, produces mildness and moderation of temper, p 2