761 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. APPLE GINGEB. (^1 Dessert DisJi.) 1516. INGEEDIENTS.--2 Ibs. of any kind of hard apples, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, It pint of water, 1 oz. of tincture of ginger. Mode.—'Boil the sugar and water until they form a rich syrup, adding the ginger when it boils up. Pare, core, and cut the apples into pieces; dip them in cold water to preserve the colour, and boil them in the syrup until transparent; but be careful not to let them break. Put the pieces of apple into jars, pour over the syrup, and carefully exclude the air, by well covering them. It will remain good some time, if kept in a dry place. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes to boil the syrup; about i hour to simmer the apples. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable.—Make this in September, October, or November. APPLE JAM. 1517. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit weighed after being pared, cored, and sliced, allow f lb. of preserving-sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the juice of ^ lemon. Mode.—Peel the apples, core and slice them very thin, and be parti- cular that they are all the same sort. Put them into a jar, stand this in a saucepan of boiling water, and let the apples stew until quite tender. Previously to putting the fruit into the jar, weigh it, to ascertain the proportion of sugar that may be required. Put the apples into a preserving-pan, crush the sugar to small lumps, and add it, with the grated lemon-rind and juice, to the apples. Simmer these over the fire for i hour, reckoning from the time the jam begins to simmer pro- perly ; remove the scum as it rises, and when the jam is done, put it into pots for use. Place a piece of oiled paper over the jam, and to exclude the air, cover the pots with tissue-paper dipped in the white of an egg, and stretched over the top. This jam will keep good for a long time. Tiine.—About 2 hours to stew in the jar; i hour to boil after the jam begins to simmer. Average cost, for this quantity, 5s. Sufficient.—'7 or 8 lbs. of apples for 6 pots of jam. Seasonahle.'—lilixke this in September, October, or November.