181 SAUCES, ETC. savoury herbs, 1 glass of sherry, 3 quarts of water; seasoning to taste of salt and whole white pepper; 3 eggs. Mode.—Lay the ham on the bottom of a stewpan, cut up the veal and cow-heel into small pieces, and lay them on the ham; add the poultry trimmings, vegetables, herbs, sherry, and water, and let the whole simmer very gently for 4 hours, carefully taking away all scum that may rise to the surface; strain through a fine sieve, and pour into an earthen pan to get cold. Have ready a clean stewpan, put in the jelly, and be particular to leave the sediment behind, or it will not be clear. Add the whites of 3 eggs, with salt and pepper, to clarify; keep stirring over the fire, till the whole becomes very white; then draw it to the side, and let it stand till clear. When this is the ease, strain it through a cloth or jelly-bag, and use it for moulding poultry, &c. {See Explanation of French Terms, page 44.) Tarragon vinegar may be added to give an additional flavour. Time.—Altogether 4-2- hours. Average cost for this quantity, 45. "White Pepper.—This is the produce of the same plant as that which produces the black pepper, from which it is manufactured by steeping this in lime and water, and rubbint? it between the hands till the coats come off'. The best berries only will bear this operation ; hence the superior qualities of white pepper fetch a higher price than, those of the other. It is less acrid than the black, and is much prized among the Chinese. It is sometimes adulterated with rice-flour, as the black is with bui*nt bread. The berries of the pepper-plant grow in spikes of from twenty to thirty, and are, when ripe, of a bright-red colour. After being gathered, which is done when they are green, they are spread out in the sun, where they dry and become black and shrivelled, when they are ready for being prepared for the market. BECHAMEIi, or FBEHCH WHITE SAUCE. 367. Ingredients.—1 small bunch of parsley, 2 cloves, | bay- leaf, 1 small faggot of savoury herbs, salt to taste; 3 or 4 mush- rooms, when obtainable; 2 pints of white stock, 1 pint of cream, 1 tablespoonful of arrowroot. Mode.—Put the stock into a stewpan, with the parsley, cloves, bay-leaf, herbs, and mushrooms; add a seasoning of salt, but no pepper, as that would give the sauce a dusty appearance, and should be avoided. "When it has boiled long enough to extract the flavour of the herbs, &c., strain it, and boil it up quickly again, until it is nearly half-reduced. Now mix the arrowroot smoothly with the cream, and let it simmer very gently for 5 minutes over a slow fire; pour to it the reduced stock, and continue to simmer slowly for 10 minutes, if the sauce be thick. If, on the contrary, it be too thin, it must be stirred over a sharp fire till it thickens. This is the foundation of many kinds of satices, especially white sauces. Always make it thick, as you can easily thin it with cream, milk, or white stock.