MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERr. 834 1681. In the patent process, the dough is mixed in a great iron ball, inside which is a system of paddles, perpetually turning, and doing the kneading part of the business. Into this globe the flour is dropped till it is full, and then the common atmospheric air is pumped out, and the pure gas turned on. The gas is followed by the water, which has been aerated for the pur- pose, and then begins the churning or kneading part of the business. 1682. Of course, it is not long before we have the dough, and very " light '* and nice it looks. This is caught in tins, and passed on to the floor of the oven, which is an endless floor, moving slovfly through the fire. Done to a turn, the loaves emerge at the other end of the apartment,—and the Aerated Bread is made. 1683. It may be added, that it-is a good plan to change one's baker from time to time, and so secure a change in the quality of the bread that is eaten. 1684. Mixed Breads.—Eye bread is hard of digestion, and requires longer and slower baking than wheaten bread. It is better when made with leaven of wheaten flour rather than yeast, and turns out lighter. It should not be eaten till two days old. It will keep a long time. 1685. A good bread may be made by mixing rye-flour, wheat-flour, and rice-paste in equal proportions ; also by mixing rye, wheat, and barley. lu Norwaj'-, it is said that they only bake their barley bread once a year, such is its keeping" quality. 1686. Indian-corn flour mixed with wheat-flour (half with half) makes a nice bread ; but it is not considered very digestible, though it keeps well. 1687. Rice cannot be made into bread, nor can potatoes; but one-third potato-flour to three-fourths wheaten flour makes a tolerably good loaf. 16S8. A very good bread, better than the ordinary sort, and of a delicious flavour, is said to be produced by adopting the following recipe :—Take ten parts of wheat-flour, five parts of potato-flour, one part of rice-]3aste ; knead together, add the yeast, and bake as usual. This is, of course, cheaper than wheaten bread. 1689. Flour, when freshly ground, is too glutinous to make good bread, and should therefore not be used immediately, but should be kept dry for a few weeks, and stirred occasionally, until it becomes dry, and crumbles easily between the fingers. 1690. Flour should be perfectly dry before being used for bread or cakes ; if at all damp, the preparation is sure to be heavy. Before mixing it with the other ingredients, it is a good plan to place it for an hour or two before the fire, until it feels warm and dry.