SAUCES, ETC. A GOOD SAUCE FOB VABIOUS BOIIiSD PUDDmaS. 514. Ingredients—} lb. of butter, i lb. of pounded sugar, a wine- glassful of brandy or ram. Mode.—Besit the butter to a cream, until no lumps remain ; add tbe pounded sugar, and brandy or rum ; stir once or twice until the v*'liole is thoroughly mixed, and serve. This sauce may either be poured round the padding or served in a tureen, according to the taste or fancy of the cook or mistress. Average cost^ Sd. for this quantity. Sufficient for a pudding. SAITCB BOBEBT, for Steaks, &c. 515. Ingeedients.—2 oz. of butter^ 3 onions, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 4 tablespoonfds of gravy, or stock No. 105, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, the juice of \ lemon. 3Iode.—Put the butter into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and, when browning, throw in the onions, which must be cut into small slices. Fry them brown, but do not burn them; add the fiour, shake the onions in it, and give the whole another fry. Put in the gravy and seasoning, and boil it gently for 10 minutes ; skim ofr the fat, add the mustard, vinegar, and lemon-juice ; give it one boil, and pour round the steaks, or whatever dish the sauce has been prepared for. JYme.—Altogether i hour. Average cost, for this quantity, Qd, Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for about 2 lbs. of steak. Note.—This sauce will be found an excellent accompaniment to roast goose, pork_, mutton cutletS; and various other dishes. A GOOD SAUCID FOB STEAKS. 516. Ingeedients.—1 oz. of whole black pepper, i oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of salt, i oz. grated horseradish, i oz. of pickled shalots, 1 pint of mushroom ketchup or walnut pickle. Mode,—Pound all the ingredients finely in a mortar, and put them into the ketchup or walnut-liquor. Let them stand for a fortnight, when strain ofi" the liquor and bottle for use. Either pour a little of the sauce over the steaks Or mix it in the gravy. Seasonable.—This can be made at any time. 2ioie.—In using a jar of pickled walnuts, there is frequently left a large