SAUCES, ETC. 239 Sot.—This is a sauce frequently made use of for fish, and comes from Japan, where it is prepared from the seeds of a plant called Dolichos Soja. The Chinese also manu- facture it; but that made by the Japanese is said to be the best. All sorts of statements have been made respecting the very general adulteration of this article in England, and we fear that many of them are too true. When genuine, it is of an agreeable flavour, thick, and of a clear brown colour. PICKLED BED CABBAGE. 498. iNesEDIENTS.—Eed cabbages, salt and water; to each quart of vinegar, f oz. of ginger well bruised, 1 oz. of whole black pepper, and, when liked, a little cayenne. Mode.—Take off the outside decayed leaves of a nice red cabbage, cut it in quarters, remove the stalks, and cut it across in very thin- slices. Lay these on a dish, and strew them plentifully with salt, covering them with another dish. Let them remain for 24 hours, turn into a colander to drain, and, if necessary, wipe lightly with a clean soft cloth. Put them in a jar; boil up the vinegar with spices .in' 'the above proportion, and, when cold, pour it over the cabbage. It will be fit for use in a Vv^eek or two, and, if kept for a very long time, the cabbage is liable get soft and to discolour. To be really nice and crisp, and of a good red colour, it should be eaten almost immediately after it is made. A little bruised cochineal boiled with the vinegar adds much to the appearance of this pickle. Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place. Seasonable in July and August, but the piekie will be much more crisp if the frost has just touched the leaves. Eed Cabbage.—This plant, in its growth, is similar in form to that of the white, but is of a bluish-purple colour, which, however, turns red on the application of acid, as is the case with all vegetable blues. It is principally from the white vegetable that the Germans make their saner kraiit; a dish held in such high estimation wdth the inhabitants of Vaderland, but which requires, generally speaking, with strangers, a long acquaintance in order to become sufficiently impressed with its numerous merits. The large red Dutch is the kind generally recommended for pickhng. PLTJM-PUDDIHG SAUCE. 499' TjrGtREDiEiTTS.—1 wineglassful of brandy, 2 oz. of very fresh I butter, 1 glass of Madeira, pounded sugar to taste. Mode.—Put the pounded sugar in a basin, with part of the brandy and the butter; let it stand by the side of the fire until it is warm and the sugar and butter are dissolved; then add the rest of the brandy, with the Madeira. Either pour it over the pudding, or serve in a tureen. This is a very rich and excellent sauce. Average cost, Is. Zd. for this quantity. Suficient for a pudding made for 6 persons. QUIN'S SAUCE, an excellent Pish Sauce. 500. Ingredients.—^ pint, of walnut pickle, i pint of port wine, I