THE DOCTOR. 1031 1> Epsom Salts, Castor Oil, Emetics, J ^Wliites of Eggs, Sugar-aud-Water, Castor Oil, Gruel. Lime-Water, Clialk-and-Water, Soap-aud-Water. Magnesia, Warm Water. }Emetics and Castor Oilj Braudy-aud-Water, if neces- sary. , Emetics and Castor Oil. 2648. The symptoms of poisoning may be known for the most part from those of some diseases, which they are very like, from the fact of their coming- on immediately after eating or drinking something ; whereas those of disease come on, in most cases at least, by degrees, and with warnings. In most cases where poison is known, or suspected, to have been taken, the first thing to be done is to empty the stomach, well and immediatel}^, by means of mustard mixed in warm water, or plain warm salt-and-water, or, better, this draught, which we call No. 1:—Twenty grains of sulphate of zinc in an ounce and a half of water. This draught to be repeated in a quarter of an hour if vomiting does not ensue. The back part of the throat should be v;^ell tickled with a feather, or two of the fingers thrust down it, to induce vomiting. The cases where vomiting must not be used are those where the skin has been taken off, and the parts touched irritated and inflamed by the poison taken, and where the action of vomiting would increase the evil. Full instructions are givQn in the article on each particular poison as to where emetics are or are not to be given. The best and safest way of emptying the stomach is by means of the stomach-pump, as in certain cases the action of vomiting is likely to increase the danger arising from the swollen and congested condition of the blood-vessels of the head, which often takes place. In the hands, how- ever, of any one else than a surgeon, it would be not only useless, but harmful, as a great deal of dexterity, caution, and experience are required to use it properly. After having made these brief introductory remarks, we shall now proceed to particulars. 2649. 'Sulphimc Acid, or Oil of Vitriol (a clear, colourless liquid, of an oily- appearance).—Symptoms in tJiose loho have swallowed it. When much is taken, these come on immediately. There is great burning pain, extending from the mouth to the stomach; vomiting of a liquid of a dcirk coffee-colour, often mixed with shreds of flesh and streaks of blood ; the skin inside the mouth is taken ofl\, and the exposed surface is at first white, and after a time becomes brownish. There are sometimes spots of a brown colour round the lips and on the neck, caused by drops of the acid failing on these parts. There is great difficulty of breathing, owing to the swelling at the back part of the mouth. After a time there is much depression of strength, with a quick, weak pulse. Lead White Lead Sugar of Lead Goulard's Extract Copper Blue-stone Verdigris Zinc Iron , Henbane Hemlock Nightshade Foxglove , Poisonous Food ..