714 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. "white of egg (this will assist to make the case firmer); fill it with apple marmalade made by recipe No. 1395, with the addition of a little sherry, and cover them v/ith a round piece of bread, also brushed over with egg", the same as the bottom; slightly press the bread down» to make it adhere to the other pieces; put a plate on the top, and bake the charlotte in a brisk oven, of a light colour. Turn it out on the dish, strew sifted sugar over the top, and pour round it a little melted apricot jam. Time.—iO to 50 minutes. Average cosf^ Is. 9d. ^ Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. S AN EAST METHOD OF MAKlJSra A CHABLOTTB-^ AUX-POMMES. 1419- Ik-gredieitts.—ilb. of flour, i lb. of butter, J lb. of powdered sugar, i teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 egg, milk, 1 glass of raisin- wine, apple marmalade No. 1395, i pint of. cream, 2 dessertspoonfuls of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuis of lemon-juice. Mode.—Make a cake with the fi.our, butter, sugar, and baking- powder; moisten with the egg and sufiicient milk to make it the proper consistency, and bake it in a round tin. When cold, scoop out the middle, leaving a good thickness all round the sides, to prevent them breaking; take some of the scooped-out pieces, which should be trimmed into neat slices; lay them in the cake, and pour over sufficient raisin-wine, with the addition of a little brandy, if approved, to soak them well. Have ready some apple marmalade, made by recipe No. 1395 ; place a layer of this over the soaked cake, then a layer of cake and a layer of apples ; whip the cream to a froth, mixing with it the sugar and lemon-juice; pile it on the top of the charlotte, and garnish it with pieces of clear apple jelly. This dish is served cold, but may be eaten hot, by omitting the cream, and merely garnishing the top with bright jelly just before it is sent to table. Time.—1 hour to bake the cake. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. A VERY SIMPLE APPLE CHABLOTTE. 1420. Ikgeedients.—9 slices of bread and butter, about 6 good-sized apples, 1 tablespoonful of minced lemon-peel, 2 tablespoonfuis of juice, moist sugar to taste. Mode.—Butter a pie-dish; place a layer of bread and butler, with- out the crust, at the bottom ; then a layer of apples, pared, cored, and cut into thin slices ; sprinkle over these a portion of the lemon-peel and juice, and sweeten with moist sugar. Place another layer of