847 33READ, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. VICTORIA BUNS. 1732. Ingeedients.—2 oz. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 egg", 1^- oz. of ground rice, 2 oz. of butter, Ij oz. of currants, a few thin slices of candied peel; flour. Mode.—Whisk the egg, stir in the sugar, and beat these ingredients well together; beat the butter to a cream, stir in the ground rice, currants, and candied peel, and as much flour as will make it of such a consistency that it may be rolled into 7 or 8 balls. Put these on to a buttered tin, and bake them from J to | hour. They should be put into the oven immediately, or they will become heavy; and the oven should be tolerably brisk. Time.—| to | hour. Average cost, Gd. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 buns. Seasonahle at any time. ITAIiIAN HUSKS. t733. A stale Savoy or lemon cake may be converted into very good [rusks in the following manner. Cut the cake into 1 slices, divide each slice in two ; put them on a baking- i sheet, in a slow oven, and when they are of a nice ! brown and quite hard, they are done. They should be kept in a closed tin canister in a dry place, to preserve their crispness. Pannicled Millet.—This is the smallest-seeded of the eorn- plants, being a true grass: but the number of the seeds in each ear makes up for their size. It grows in sandy soils that will not do for I the eultivatiou of many other kinds of grain, and forms the chief I sustenance in the arid districts of Arabia, Syria, N"ubia, and parts of India. It is not cultivated in England, being principally confined to the East. The nations who make use of it grind it, in the primi- tive manner*, between two stones, and make it into a diet which cannot be properly called bread, but rather a kind of soft thin cake half-baked. When we take into account that the Arabians are fond of lizards and locusts as articles of food, their cuisine, altogether, is scarcely a tempting one. PANNICLED MILLET. TO MAKE HUSKS. (Suffolk Recipe.) 1734. Ingbedieitts.—To every lb. of flour allow 2 oz. of butter, J pint of milk, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of yeast. Mode.—Put the milk and butter into a saucepan, and keep shaking it round until the latter is melted. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, mix these well together, and beat the eggs. Stir them with the yeast to the milk and butter, and with this liquid work the flour into a smooth dough. Cover a cloth over the