MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 582 BAKED POTATOES. 1136. Ingredients—Potatoes. Mode.—Choose large potatoes, as much of a size as possible; "wash them in lukewarm water, and scrub them well, for the browned skin of a baked potato is by many persons considered the better part of it. Put them into a moderate oven, and bake them for about 2 hours, turning them three or four times whilst they are cooking. Serve BAKED POTATOES sEKVED thom iu a uapkiu immediately they are done, IN KXTKm, if ]jep^ a long time in the oven, they have a shrivelled appearance. Potatoes may also be roasted before the fire, - in an American oven; but when thus cooked, they must be done very slowly. Do not forget to send to table with them a piece of cold butter. Time.—Large potatoes, in a hot oven U hour to 2 hours; in a cool oven, 2 to 2i hours. Average cost^ is. per bushel. Sufficient.—Allow 2 to each person. Seasonable all the year, but not good just before and whilst new potatoes are in season. PoTATO-SuGAE.—TMs sugarj substance, found in the tubers of potatoes, ia obtained in the form of syrup or treacle, and has not yet been crystallized. It resembles the sugar of grapes, has a very sweet taste, and may be used for making sweetmeats, and as a substitute for honey. Sixty pounds of potatoes, yielding eight pounds of dry starch, wiU produce seven and a half pounds of sugar. In Kussia it is extensively made, as good, though of less consistency than the treacle obtained from cane-sugar. A spirit is also distilled from the tubers, which resembles brandy, but is milder, and has a flavour as if it were charged with the odour of violets or raspberries. In France this manu- facture is carried on pretty extensively, and five hundred pounds of the tubers will produce twelve quarts of spirit, the pulp being given to cattle. TO BOIIi POTATOES. 1137. iKaEEDiENTS.—10 or 12 potatoes; to each | gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—Choose potatoes of an equal size, pare them, take out all the eyes and specks, and as they are peeled, throw them into cold water. Put them into a saucepan, with sufficient cold water to cover them, with salt in the above proportion, and let them boil gently until tender. Ascertain when they are done by thrusting a fork in them, and take them up the moment they feel soft through; for if they are left in the water afterwards, they become waxy or watery. Drain away the water, put the saucepan by the side of the fire, with the lid partially uncovered, to allow the steam to escape, and let the potatoes get thoroughly dry, and do not allow them to get burnt. Their superfluous moisture will evaporate, a-nd the potatoes, if a good sort,