757 CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. 8 B Take the cups out of the water, wipe them, and garnish the tops of the creams with candied orange-peel or preserved chips. Tvne.—Altogether, ^ hour. Average costy with cream at Is. per pint, Is. Id. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 creams. Seasonable from November to May. Note.—To render this clisli more economical, substitute milk or the cream, but add a small pinch of isinglass to make the creams firm. Seville Orange {Citrus vulgaris).—This variety, called also bitter oravge, is of the satr.o species as the sweet orange, and grows in great abundance on the banks of the Guadal- quiver, in Andalusia, whence this fruit is chiefly obtained. In that part of Spain there Sire very extensive orchards of these oranges, wliich form the chief wealth of the monasteries. The pulp of the bitter orange is not eaten raw. In the yellow rind, separated from the white spongy substance immediately below it, is contained an essential oil, which is an agreeable warm aromatic, much superior for many purposes to that of the common orange. The best marmalade and the richest wine are made from tliis orange; and from its flowers the best orange-flower water is distilled. SeviilG oranges are also preserved whole as a sweetmeat. OBANGE PKITTEKS. 1465. Ingredients.—For the batter, i lb. of flour, i oz. of butter, J saltspoonfiil of salt, 2 eggs, milk, oranges, hot lard or clarified dripping. Mode,—Make a nice light batter with the above proportion of flour, butter, salt, eggs, and sufficient milk to make it the proper consist- ency ; peel the oranges, remove as much of the white skin as possible, and divide each orange into eight pieces, without breaking the thin skin, unless it be to remove the pips ; dip each piece of orange in the batter. Have ready a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping; drop in the oranges, and fry them a delicate brown from 8 to 10 minutes. When done, lay them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire, to drain away the greasy moisture, and dish them on a white d'oyley; sprinkle over them plenty of pounded sugar, and serve quickly. Twie.—S to 10 minutes to fry the fritters; 5 minutes to drain them. Average cost^ 9d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from I^"ovember to May, A PRETTY DISH OF ORAITGES. 1466. Ingeedients.—G large oranges, h lb. of loaf sugar, J pint of water, ^ pint of cream, 2 tablespoonf uls of any kind of liqueur, sugar to taste. 3Iode.—Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them until the sugar becomes brittle, which may be ascertained by taking up a small quantity in a spoon, and dipping it in cold water; if the