VEGETABLES. 501 water, place tliem in a colander, and drain; then put them into plenty of fast-hoiling water, to wliich have been added salt and soda in the above proportions. Stir them down once or twice in the water, keep the pan uncovered, and let them boil quickly until tender. The instant they are done, take them up into a colander, place a plate over them, let them thoroughly drain, dish, and serve. Time.—Large cabbages, or savoys, J to J hour, young summer cabbage, 10 to 12 minutes, after the water boils. Average cost, 2d. each in full season. Sitffictott,—2 large ones for 4 or 5 persons. Seaso7iabIe.—Cahhsiges and sprouts of various kinds at any time. The Cabbage Tribe ; their Origiit.—Of all tlie tribes of the Cruciferce this is by far the most important. Its scientific name is BrassicccB, and it contains a collection of plants which, both in themselves and their products, occupy a prominent position in agriculture, commerce, and domestic economy. On the cliffs of Dover, and in many places on the coasts of Dorsetshire, Cornwall, and Yoi-kshire, there grove's a wild plant, with variously-indented, much-waved, and loose spreading leaves, of a sea-green colour, and large yellow :Uo\ver3. In spring, the leaves of this plant are collected by the inha- bitants, who, after boiling them in two waters, to remove the saltness, use them as a vegetable along with their moat. This is the Brassiea oleracea of science, the Wild Cabbage, or Colewort, from which have originated all tiie varietie3 of Cabbage, Cauli- flower, Greens, and Brocoli. STEWED BED CABBAGE. 1099. Ingredients.—1 red cabbage, a small slice of ham, § oz. of fresh butter, 1 pint of weak stock or broth, 1 gill of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of pounded sugar. 3Iode.—Cut the cabbage into very thin slices, put it intoastewpan, with the ham cut in dice, the butter, h pint of stock, and the vinegar; cover the pan closely, and let it stew for 1 hour. When it is very tender, add the remainder of the stock, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and the pounded sugar; mix all well together, stir over the fire until nearly all the liquor is dried away, and serve. Fried sausages are usually sent to table with this dish: they should be laid round and on the cabbage, as a garnish. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average costj id. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to January. The Wild Cabbage, or Cole-woet.—This plant, as it is found on the sea-clifFs of England, presents us with the origin of the cabbage tribe in its simplest and normal form. In this state it is the true Collet, or Colewort, although the name is now applied to any young cabbage which has a loose and open heart. BOILED CABBOTS. 1100. Ingredients.—To each h gallon of water, allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; carrots. Mode,—Cut off the green tops, wash and scrape the carrots, and 2o