FRtriT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. 75 Have ready a pint of young peas boiled ; add them to the soup, put in the sugar, give one boil, and serve. If necessary, add salt. Time.—2^ hours. Average cost^ Is. ^d: per quart. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Sufficieiitiov 10 persons. J}^ote.—It will be well to add^ if the peas are not quite young, a little sugar. Where economy is essential, water may be used instead of stock for this soup, boiling in it likewise the pea-shells; but use a double quantity of vegetables. WINTER PEA SOUP (YELLOW). 143. Ingredients.—1 quart of split peas, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, trimmings of meat or poultry, a slice of bacon, 2 large carrots, 2 tur- nips, 5 large onions, 1 head of celery, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of soft water, any bones left from roast meat, 2 quarts of common stock, or liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled. Mode.—Put the peas to soak over-night in soft water, and float off such as rise to the top. Boil them in the water till tender enough to pulp; then add the ingredients mentioned above, and simmer for 2 hours, stirring it occasionally. Pass the whole through a sieve, skim well, season, and serve with toasted bread cut in dice. Time.—4 hours. Average cost^ 6d. per quart. Seasonable all the year round, but more suitable for cold weather. Sufficient for 12 persons. The Pea.—It is supposed that the common gray pea, found wild in Greece, and other parts of the Levant, is the original of the common garden pea, and of all the domestic varieties belong- ing to it. The gray, or field pea, called hisallie by the French, is less subject to run into varieties than the garden kinds, and is considered by some, per- haps on that account, to be the wild plant, retaining still a large proportion of its original habit. From the tendency of aU other varieties "to run av/ay" and become different to vihat they originally were, it is very difficult to determine the races to wliich they belong. The pea was well knovsoi to the Eomans, and, probably, was introduced to Britain at an early period; for we find peas mentioned by Lydgate, a poet of the 15th century, as being hawked in London. They seem, however, for a considerable time, to have fallen out of use; for, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, Fuller teUs us they were brought from Holland, and were accounted " fit dainties for ladies, they came so far and cost so dear." There are some varieties of peas which have no hning in their pods, which are eaten cooked in the same way as kidney- beans. They are called sugar peas, and the best variety is the large crooked sugar, which is also very good, used in the common way, as a culinary vege- table. There is also a white sort, which readily sphts when subjected to the action of millstones set vvide apart, so as not to grind them. These are used largely for soups, and especially for sea-stores. From the quantity of farinaceous and saccharine matter contained in the pea, it is highly nutritious as an article of food.