385 PORK. TO PICKLE HAMS (Suffolk Becipe). 819. Ingeedients.—To a ham from 10 to 12 lbs., allow 1 lb. of coarse sugar, | lb. of salt, 1 oz. of saltpetre, -a- a teacupful of vinegar. Mode.—Eub the hams well with common salt, and leave them for a day or two to drain; then rub well in, the above proportion of sugar, salt, saltpetre, and vinegar, and turn them every other day. Keep them in the pickle 1 month, drain them, and send them to be smoked over a wood fire for 3 weeks or a month. Time.—To remain in the pickle 1 month. To be smoked 3 weeks or 1 month. Sufficient.—The abov^ proportion of pickle sufficient for 1 ham. Seasonable.—Hams should be pickled from October to March. Novel way op Recovering- a Stolen- Pig.—It is a well-Irnown fact, that in Ireland the pig is, in everi/^ respect, a domesticated animal, sharing often both the bed and tha board of the family, and making an outer ring to the domestic circle, as, seated round the pot of potatoes, they partake of the midday meal called dinner. An Irishman upon one occasion having lost an interesting member of his household, in the form of a promising young porker, consulted his priest on the occasion, and having hinted at the person he suspected of purloining the *' illegant slip of a pig," he was advised to take no further notice of the matter, but leave the issue to his spiritual adviser. Next Sunday his reverence, after mass, came to the front of the altar-rails, and looking very hard at the supposed culprit, exclaimed, *• Who stole Pat Doolan's pig ? " To this inquiry there was of course no answer;—the priest did not expect there would be auj. The following Sunday the same query was propounded a little stronger—" Who of you was it, I say, who stole poor Pat Doolan's pig?" It now became evident that the culprit was a hardened sinner; so on the third Sunday, instead of repeating the unsatisfactory inquiry, the priest, after, as usual, eyeing the obdurate offender, said, in a tone of pious sorrow, ''Mike Eegan, Mike Rega,n, you treat me with contempt!" That night, when the family was all asleep, the latch of the door was noiselessly lifted, and the illegant slip of a pig" cautiously slipped into the cabin. TO SMOKB HAMS AND irISH AT HOMS. 820. Take an old hogshead, stop up all the crevices, and fix a place to put a cross-stick near the bottom, to hang the articles to be smoked on. Next, in the side, cut a hole near the top, to introduce an iron pan filled with sawdust and small pieces of green wood. Having turned the tub upside down, hang the articles upon the cross-stick, introduce the iron pan in the opening, and place a piece of red-hot iron in the pan, cover it with sawdust, and all will be complete. Let a large ham remain 40 hours, and keep up a good smoke. TO CUBB BACOH OB HAMS IN THE DSVOISTSHIBB WAIT, 821. Inghedients.—To every 14 lbs. of meat, allow 2 oz. of salt- petre, 2 oz. of salt prunella, 1 lb. of common salt. For the pickle, 3 gallons of water, 5 lbs. of common salt, 7 lbs. of coarse sugar, 3 lbs. of bay-salt. 3fode.—Weigh the sides, hams, and cheeks, and to every 14 lbs* allow the above proportion of saltpetre, salt prunella, and common 2 c