795 PRESERVES; CONFECTIONARY, ETC. STEWED FRENCH PLUMS. {A Dessert Dish.) 1583. Ingredients. — H lb. of French plums, f pint of syrup No. 1512, 1 glass of port wine, the rind and juice of 1 lemon. 3fode.—&tew the plums gently in water for 1 hour; strain the water, and with it make the syrup. When it is clear, put in the plums with the port wine, lemon-juice, and rind, and simmer very gently for H hour. Arrange the plums on a glass dish, take out the lemon-rind, pour the syrup over the plums, and, when cold, they will be ready for table. A little allspice stewed with the fruit is by many persons con- sidered an improvement. Tune.—1 hour to stew the plums in water, 1| hour in the syrup. Average cost,—plums sufficiently good for stewing, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. PSE SERVED PUMPKIISr. 1584. Ingredients.—To each lb. of pumpkin allow lib. of roughly pounded loaf sugar, 1 gill of lemon-juice. Mode.—Obtain, a good sweet pumpkin ; halve it, take out the seeds, and pare off the rind ; cut it into neat slices, or into pieces about the size of a five-shilling piece. Weigh the pumpkin, put the slices in a pan or deep dish in layers, with the sugar sprinkled between them ; pour the lemon-juice over the top, and let the whole remain for 2 or 3 days. Boil altogether, adding ^ pint of water to every 3 lbs. of sugar used until the pumpkin becomes tender; then turn the whole into a pan, where let it remain for a week; then drain off the syrup, boil it until it is quite thick ; skim, and pour it, boiling, over the pump- kin. A little bruised ginger and lemon-rind, thinly pared, may be boiled in the syrup to flavour the pumpkin. Time.—From I to J hour to boil the pumpkin tender. Average cost, 5d. to 7d. per lb. pot. Seasonable in September and October; but better when made in the latter month, as the pumpkin is then quite ripe. Note.—Vegetable marrows are very good prepared in the same mamier, but are not quite so rich. QUIHCE JELLY-. 3585. Ingredients.—To every pint of juice allow 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and slice the quinces, and put them into a preserving- pan with sufficient water to float them. Boil them until tender, and the fruit is reduced to a pulp ; strain off the clear juice, and to each pint