PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 671 beat the former for a short time. Then, when the pastry is nearly- baked, take it out of the oven, brush it over with this beaten yolk of egg, and put it back in the oven to set the glaze. 1335. To ice pastry, which is the usual method adopted for fruit tarts and sweet dishes of pastry, put the white of an egg on a plate, and with the blade of a knife beat it to a stiff froth. When the pastry is nearly baked, brush it over with this, and sift over some pounded sugar; put it back into the oven to set the glaze, and, in a few minutes, it will be done. Great care should be taken that the paste does not catch or burn in the oven, which it is very liable to do after the icing is laid on. Sufficient,—Allow 1 egg and 1| oz. of sugar to glaze 3 tarts. Sttgib has been happily called the honey of reeds," The sugar-cane apiDearsto he ori- inally a native of the East Indies. The Chinese ave cultivated it for 2,000 years. The Egyptians, Phoenicians, and Jews knew nothing about it. The Greek physicians are the first who speak of it. It was not till the year 1471 that a Venetian discovered the method of purifying brown sugar and maldng loaf sugar. He gained an immense fortune by this discovery. Our supplies are now obtained from Barbadoes, Jamaica, Mauritius, Ceylon, the East and West Indies generally, and the United States; but the largest supplies come from Cuba. Sugar is divided into the following classes : — Refined sugar, white clayed, brown clayed, brown raw, and molasses. The sugar- cane grows to the height of six, twelve, or even sometimes twenty feet. It is propagated from cuttings, requires much hoeing and weeding, giving employment to thousands upon thousands of slaves in the slave countries, and attains maturity in twelve or thirteen months. When ripe, it is cut down close to the stole, the stems are divided into lengths of about three feet, which are made up into bundles, and carried to the mill, to be crushed between rollers. In the process of crushing, the juice runs down into a reservoir, from which, after a while, it is drawn through a siphon; that is to say, the clear fluid is taken from the scum. This fluid undergoes several processes of drying and refining; the methods varying in diflerent manufactories. There are some large establishments engaged in sugar-peiining in the neighbourhoods of BlackwaLl and Bethnal Green, London. The process is mostly in the hands of German workmen. Sugar is adulterated with fine sand and sawdust. Pure sugar is highly nutritious, adding to the fatty tissue of the body j but it is not easy of digestion. SUGAE-CANES. BAKED BAISIW PUDDING. {Plain and Economical.) 336. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of flour, f lb. of stoned raisins, i lb. of suet, a pinch of salt, 1 oz. of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely; stone the raisins and cut them in halves; mix these with the suet, add the salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg, and moisten the whole with sufficient milk to make it of the con-