MODEHN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 432 Noie»—The egg and bread crumb may be omitted, and the slices of sweet- bread dredged with a little flour instead, and a good gravy may be substituted for the maitre d'hotol sauce. This is a very simple method of dressing them STEWED SWEETBBBADS (an Entree). 903. Ikgeedients.—3 sweetbreads, 1 pint of white stock No. 107, thickening of butter and flour, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream, 1 table- spoonfiil of lemon-juice, 1 blade of pounded mace, white pepper and salt to taste. Mode,—Soak the sweetbreads in warm water for 1 hour, and boil them for 10 minutes; take them out, put them into cold water for a few minutes ; lay them in a stewpan with the stock, and simmer them gently for rather more than \ hour. Dish them ; thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour; let it boil up, add the remaining ingre- dients, allow the sauce to get quite hot^ but not hoil^ and pour it oyer the sweetbreads. Time.—To soak 1 hour, to be boiled 10 minutes, stewed rather more than 4 hour. Average cost, from Is. to 5s., according to the season. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable.—In full season from May to August. JV'ote.—A few mushrooms added to this dish, and stewed with the sweet- breads, will be found an improvement. Seasojt and Choice of Veal.—^Veal, like all other meats, has its season of plenty. The best veal, and the largest supply, are to he had from March to the end of July. It comes iDrineipaUy from the western counties, and is generally of the Alderney breed. In purchashig veal, its whiteness and fineness of grain should be considered, the colour being especiaUy of the utmost consequence. Veal may be bought at aU times of the year e-nd of excellent quality, but is generally very dear, except in the months of plenty. STEWED TBNDBOJSrS DE VEAU (an Entree). 909. Ingeedien-ts.—The gristles from 2 breasts of veal, stock No. 107, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, 4 cloves, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a strip of lemon-peel. 3fode.—The tendrons or gristles, which are found round the front of a breast of veal, are now very frequently served as an entree, and when well dressed, make a nice and favourite dish. Detach the gristles from the bone, and cut them neatly out, so as not to spoil the joint for roasting or stewing. Put them into a stewpan, with sufficient stock, ;N"o. 107, to cover them; add the herbs, mace, cloves, carrots, onions, and lemon, and simmer these for nearly, or quite, 4 hours. They should be stewed until a fork will enter the meat easily. Take them up, drain them, strain the gravy, boil it down to a glaze, v/ith