9S0 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 2244. The bonnet slioiild be dusted with a light featber plume, in order to remove every particle of dust; but this has probably been done, as it ought to have been, the night before. Velvet bonnets, and other velvet articles of dress, should be cleaned with a soft brush. If the flowers with which the bonnet is decorated have been crushed or displaced, or the leaves tumbled, they should be raised and readjusted by means of flower-pliers. If feathers have sufl'ered from damp, they should be held near the fire for a few minutes, and restored to their natural state by the hand or a soft brush. 2215. The Chatisserie, or foot-gear of a lady, is one of the few things left to mark her station, and requires special care. Satin boots or shoes should be dusted witli a soft brush, or wiped with a cloth. Kid or varnished leather should have the mud wiped ofi" with a sponge charged with milk, which preserves its softness and polish. The follow- ing is also an excellent polish for applying to ladies' boots, instead of blacking them :— Mix equal proportions of sweet-oil, vinegar, and treacle, with 1 oz, of lamp-black. When all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, rub the mixture on the boots with the palm of th.e hand, and put them in a cool place to dry. Ladies' blacking, which may be purchased in Gd. and Is. bottles, is also veiy much used for patent leather and kid boots, particularly when they are a little worn. This blacking is merely applied with a piece of sponge, and the boots should not be put on until the blacking is dry and hardened. 2246. These various preliminary offices performed, the lady's-maid should prepare for dressing her mistress, arranging her dressing-room, toilet-table, and linen, according to her mistress's wishes and habits. The details of dressing we need not touch upon,—every lady has her own mode of doing so ; but the maid should move about quietly, perform any offices ahout her mis- tress's person, as lacing stays, gently, and adjust her linen smoothly. 2247. Having prepared the dressing-room by lighting the fire, sweeping the hearth, and made everything ready for dressing ber mistress, placed her linen before the fire to air, and laid out the various articles of dress she is to wear, which will probably have been arranged the previous evening, tho lady's-maid is prepared for the morning's duties. 2248. Hairdresshig is the most important part of the lady's-maid's office. If ringlets are worn, remove the curl-papers, and, after thoroughly brushing the back hair both above and below, dress it according to the prevailing fashion. If bandeaux are worn, the hair is thoroughly brushed and frizzed outside and inside, folding the hair back round the head, brushing it perfectly smooth, giving it a glossy api^earance by tho use of pomades, or oil, applied by the palm of the hand, smoothing it down with a small brush dipped in bandoline. Double bandeaux are formed by bringing most of the hair forward, and rolling it over frizettes made of hair the same colour as that of the wearer : it is finished behind by plaiting the hair, and arranging it in such a manner as to look well with the head-dress. 2249. Lessons in hairdressing may be obtained, and at not an unreasonable charge. If a lady's-maid can afford it, we would advise her to initiate herself in the mysteries of hairdressing before entering on her duties. If a mistress finds her maid hand}^ and willing to learn, she will not mind the expense of a few lessons, which are almost necessary, as the fashion and mode of dressing the hair is so continually changing. Brushes and combs sliould be kept scrupulously clean, by washing them about twice a week : to do this oftener spoils tho brushes, as very frequent washing makes them so very soft.