303 MODERN nOUSElIOLD COOKERY. the king. " By St. George, it shall have a title !" Then drawing: his s-^rord, he raised it above the meat, and cried, with, mock dignity, *'_Loin, we di:b thee knight; henceforward be Sir Loin!" This anecdote is doubtless apocry- phal, although the oak table upon which the joint was supposed to have received its knight- hood, might have been seen by any one who visited Friday-llill House, a few years ago. It is, perhaps, a pity to spoil so noble a story; but the interests of^ truth demand that we declare that sirloin is probably a corruption of siirloin, which signifies the upper part of a loin, the prefix sur being equivalent to over or nhooe.' lu French we find this joint called sur- longc, which so closely resembles our sirloin, that we may safely refer the two words to a cbmmou origin. TO SALT BEEF. 660. Ingredients.—round of beef, 4 oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of powdered saltpetre, 2 oz. of black pepper, J lb. of bay-salt, h lb. of common salt. il/oc/e.—Hub the meat well with salt, and let it remain for a day, to disgorge and clear it from slime. The next day, rub it v^^ell with the above ingredients on every side, and let it remain in the pickle for about a fortnight, turning it every day. It may be boiled fresh from the pickle, or smoked. Time.—I round of beef to remain in pickle about a fortnight. Average costj 7d. per lb. Seasonahle at any time. Note.—The aitch-bone, flank, or brisket may be salted and pickled by any of the recipes we have given for salting beef, allowing less time for small joints to remain in the pickle; for instance, a joint of 8 or 9 lbs. will bo sufficiently salt in about a week. THE DUTCH WAY TO SALT BEEF. 661. IxGEEDiENTS.—10 Ibs. of Icaii bccf, 1 lb. of treacle, 1 oz. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt. 3Iode.—Hub the beef well with the treacle, and let it remain for 3 days, turning and rubbing it often; then wipe it, pound the salt and saltpetre very fine, rub these well in, and turn it every day for 10 days. Roll it up tightly in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; have it smoked, and turn it upside down every day. j3oil it, and, on taking it out of the pot, put a heavy weight on it to press it. Time.—17 days. Seasonable at any time. '' BEEF SAUSAGES. GG2. Ik-gbediek-ts.—To every lb. of suet allovN^ 2 lbs. of lean beef; seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and mixed spices.