CREAMS, JELLIES, 0MELET3, ETC. 729* whisk the mixture till it is quite white ; put it into a mould which has been previously wetted, and let it remain until perfectly set; then turn it out, and garnish it according to taste. Time.—10 to lo minutes. A veragc cost, with the best isinglass, 3s. Gd. Siffficioit to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. LIQUEUR JELLY, 1449. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of lump sugar, 2 oz. of isinglass, ij pint of water, the juice of 2 lemons, \ pint of liqueur. 3Iode,—Put the sugar, with 1 pint of the water, into a stewpan, and boil them gently by the side of the lire until there is no scum remain- ing, which must be carefully re- moved as fast as it rises. Boil the isinglass with the other -2- pint of water, and skim it carefully in the same manner. Strain the lemon- juice, and add it, with the clarified isinglass, to the syrup ; put in the liqueur, and bring the whole to the boiling-point. Let the saucepan remain covered by the side of the fire for a few minutes ; then pour the jelly through a bag, put it into a mould, and set the mould in ice until required for table. Dip the mould in hot water, wipe the outside, loosen the jelly by passing a knife round the edges, and turn it out carefully on a dish. Xoyeau, Maraschino, Curayoa, brandy, or any kind of liqueur, answers for this jelly ; and, when made with isinglass, liqueur jellies are usually prepared as directed above. Time.—10 minutes to boil the sugar and water. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 35. 6d. Sufficient to till a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. A SV/HET DISH OF MACARONI. 1450. Ingkedients.—i lb. of macaroni, 1t^- pint of milk, the rind of 4 lemon, 3 oz. of lump sugar, f pint of custard No. 1423. Mode.—Put the milk into a saucepan, with the lemon-peel and sugar ; bring it to the boiling-point, drop in the macaroni, and let it gradually swell over a gentle fire, but do not allow the pipes to break. The form should be entirely preserved ; and, though tender, should be firm, and not soft, with no part beginning to melt. Should the milk dry away before the macaroni is sufficiently swelled, add a little more. Make a custard by recipe No. 1423 ; place the macaroni on a dish, and