PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 2 T 2 line a buttered pudding-basin with a portion of it; fill the basin with the damsons, sweeten them, and put on the lid; pinch the edges of the crust together, that the juice does not escape; tie over a floured cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil from 2^ to 3 hours. Time.—2i to 3 hours. Average cost, 8d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable in September and October. BBLHI PUDDHsTG. 1272. Ikgeedients.—4 large apples, a little grated nutmeg, 1 tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel, 2 large tablespoonfuls of sugar, 6 oz. of currants, f lb. of suet crust Ko. 1215. ilfof/e.—Pare, core, and cut the apples into slices; put them into a saucepan, with the nutmeg, lemon-peel, and sugar; stir them over the fire until soft; then have ready the above proportion of crust, roll it out thin, spread the apples over the paste, sprinkle over the cur- rants, roll the pudding up, closing the ends properly, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. EMPBESS PUDBiiq-a 1273. Ingeedients.—i lb. of rice, 2 oz. of butter, 3 eggs, jam, suf- ficient milk to soften the rice. Mode.—Boil the rice in the milk until very soft; then add the butter boil it for a few minutes after the latter ingredient is put in, and set it by to cool. Well beat the eggs, stir these in, and line a dish with puff-paste; put over this a layer of rice, then a thin layer of any kind of jam, then another layer of rice, and proceed in this manner until the dish is full; and bake in a moderate oven for f hour. This pu ding may be eaten hot or cold; if the latter, it will be much 'niproved by having a boiled custard poured over it. Ti7ne.—| hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. EXETER PUDDIJTG. {Very rich.) 1274. iNaREBiENTS.—10 OZ. of bread crumbs, 4 oz. of sago, 7 oz. of finely-chopped suet, 6 oz. of moist sugar, the rind of i lemon, I pint of rum, 7 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, 4 small sponge cakes, 2 oz. of ratafias, i lb. of jam.