157 risn. TO FRY SMELTS. 319. Ingeedien'TS.—Egg and bread crumbs, a little flour; boiling lard. ilfbfZe.—Smelts should be very fresh, and not washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour, dip them in egg, and sprinkle over with very fine bread crumbs, and put them into boiling lard. Fry of a nice pale brown, and be careful not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be spoiled. Dry them before the fire on a drainer, and serve with plain melted butter. This fish is often used as a garnishing. Time.—5 minutes. Average cost, 2s. per dozen. Seasonable from October to May. The Smelt.—This is a delicate little fish, and is in high esteem. Mr. Yarrell asserts that the THE SiTELT. true smelt is entirely confined to the western and eastern coasts of Britain. It very rarely ventures far from the shore, and is plentiful in November, December, and January. BAKED SOLES. 320. In'giiedients.—2 soles, f lb. of butter, egg, and bread crumbs, minced parsley, 1 glass of sherry, lemon-juice; cayenne and salt to taste. Mode. — Clean, skin, and well wash the fish, and dry them thoroughly in a cloth. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley, lay them in a large flat baking-dish, white side uppermost; or if it will not hold the two soles, they may each be laid on a dish by itself; but they must not be put one on the top of the other. Melt the butter, and pour it over the whole, and bake for 20 minutes. Take a portion of the gravy that flows from the fish, add the wine, lemon-juice, and season- ing, give it one boil, skim, pour it imder the fish, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost^ Is. to 2s. per pair. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. To CHOOSE Soles.—This fish should be both thick and firm. If the skin is difficult to be taken off, and the flesh looks grey, it is good. The Sole.—This rants next to the turbot in point of excellence among our flat fish. It is abundant on the British coasts, but those of the the sole. ■western shores are much superior in size to those taken on the northern. The finest are caught in Torbay, and frequently weigli 8 or 10 lbs. per pair. Its tlesh being firm, white, and delicate, is greatly esteemed.