903 DUTII'S OF THE IIOUSErixVlD. bedroom candlesticks, kc. &c., wliieli she will have to do where there is no parlonr-maid or footman kept. By this moans the -vYork will be divided, and there will be no unnecessary bustling and hurrying, as is the case where the work is done any time, without rule or regulation. 2306. Once a week, w^hen a bedroom is to be thoroughly cleaned, the house- maid should commence by brushing the mattresses of the bed before it is made; she should then make it, shake the curtains, lay them smoothly on the bed, and pin or tuck up the bottom valance, so that she may be able to sweep under the bed. She should then unloop the window-curtains, shako them, and pin them high up out of the way. After clear- ing the dressing-table, and the room altogether of httlo articles of china, &c. &c., she should shako the toilet- covers, fold them up, and lay them on the bod, over which a large dusting-sheet should be thrown. She should then sweep the room ; first of all si^rinkling the /^^^^^■■■■■■mmm'i^^ carpet with well-squeezed tea- SWFWi'ffl^^^ leaves, or a little freshly-pulled EcrvTTBBiNG-BiirsH. grass, when this is obtainable. After the carpet is swept, and the grate cleaned, she should wash with soap and water, with a little soda in it, the washing-table apparatus, removing all marks or fur round the jugs, caused by the water. The water- bottles and tumblers must also have hor attention, as well as the top of the washing-stand, which should be cleaned with soap and flannel if it be marble: if of ^^^^^ „ polished mahogany, no soap must be used. When these are all clean and arranged in their places, the housemaid should scrub the floor where it is not covered with carpet, under the beds, and round the wainscot. She should use as little soap and soda as possible, as too free a use of these articles is liable to give the boards a black appearance. In the country, cold soft water, a clean scrubbing-brush, and a willing arm, are all that are required to make bedroom floors look white. In winter it is not advisable to scrub rooms too often, as it is difficult to dry them thoroughly at that season of the year, and nothing is more dangerous than to allow persons to sleep in a damp room. The housemaid should now dust the furni- ture, blinds, ornaments, &c.; polish the looking-glass; arrange the toilet-cover and muslin ; remove the cover from the bed, and straighten and arrange the curtains and counterpane. A bedroom should be cleaned like this every week. There are times, however, when it is necessary to have the carpet up ; this should be done once a year in the country, and twice a year in large cities. The best tim.e for these arrangem.ents is spring and autumn, when the bed-furniture requires changing to suit the seasons of the year. After arranging the furniture, it should all be well rubbed and polished ; and for this purpose the housemaid should provide herself with an old silk pocket-hand- kerchief, to finish the i:)olisliing. o S