MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 486 The Eock Pigeoit.—This yariety, in its wild state, is found upon tlie rocky parts of the west of Scotland, and the bold shores of the Western Isles, more abundant than in any other parts of the British islands. As the shores of the mainland are exposed to the muds of the Atlantic, and the comparatively small islands are surrounded by that ocean, the low grounds exposed to the west are seldom covered with snow for any length of time, and thus the birds easily find a supply of food. The numbers which there congregate are often very great, and the din of their united cry is sometime.", very loud and even alarming. The love of home and the certainty of returning to it is very conspicuous in the rock-pigeon or hisei, as it is called by the French. Flocks from different parts of the coasts often meet on the feeding- grounds ; but when the time of returning to rest comes round, each one keeps to its own party. ELUE rvOCK-PIGEON. The Owl Pigeoit.—This pigeon does not seem to be so well known as it formerly was, if we may judge from the fact that few modern writers mention it. Like the Turuit pigeon, the Owl has a remarkable tuft of feathers on the breast, it having been compared by some to the frill of a shirt, and by others to a full- blown white rose. In size, it is not quite so large a pigeon as the Jacobin. It is said to be preferred in France, above other varieties, as a bird to rear and kiU for the table. In England it is very far from being common; indeed, we have applied to several keepers of pigeons, who have fancied themselves acquainted with all the varieties of this bird, and they have been able to tell us nothing of it. Mr. Harrison Weir, our artist, however, has made his portrait from the life. DWL PIGEONS. BOILED BABBIT. 977. Iis^GREDTEis^TS.—Habbit; water. 3Iode.—For boiling", choose rabbits with smooth and sharp claws, as that denotes they are young : should these be blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, the animal is old. After emptying and skinning it, wash it well in cold water, and let it soak for about J hour in warm water, to draw out the blood. Bring the head round to the side, and fasten it there by means of a skev/er run through that and the body. Put the rabbit into suffi- cient hot water to cover it, let it boil very gently until tender, which will be in from ^ to f hour, according to its size and age. Dish it, and smother it either with onion, mushroom, or liver sauce, or parsley-and-butter; the former is, however, generally preferred to any of the last-named sauces. When liver-sauce is preferred, the liver should be boiled for a few minutes, and minced very finely, or rubbed through a sieve before it is added to the sauce.