698 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Tme.—From 20 to SO minutes to stew the apples very gently, 10 minutes in the oven. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for 1 entremets. ]}^ote.—The syrup that the apples were boiled in should be saved for another occasion. FliANC OF APPIiES, or APPLSS TN A PwAISED CP.UST. {Siveet Entremets.) 1391. INGREDIENTS.—| lb. of short crust Wo. 1211 or 1212, 9 mode- rate-'Sized apples, the rind and juice of ^ lemon, \ lb. of white sugar, f pint of water, a few strips of candied citron. Mode.—Make a short crust by either of the above recipes; roll ^it out to the thickness of 4 inch, and butter an oval mould; line it with the crust, and press it carefully all round the sides, to obtain the form of the mould, but be particular not to break the paste. Pinch the part that just rises above the mould with the paste-pincers, and fill the case with flour ; bake it for about f hour ; then take it out of the oven, remove the flour, put the case back in the oven for another ^ hour, and do not allow it to get scorched. It is now ready for the apples, which should be prepared in the following manner; peel, and take out the cores with a small knife, or a cutter for the purpose, without dividing the apples; put them into a small lined saucepan, just capable of holding them, with sugar, water, lemon juice and rind, in the above proportion. Let them simmer very gently until tender ; then take out the apples, let them cool, arrange them in the flanc or case, and boil down the syrup until reduced to a thick jelly; pour it over the apples, and garnish them with a few slices of can- died citron. 1392. A MOEE SIMPLE PLANC may be made by rolling out the paste, cutting the bottom of a round or oval shape, and then a narrow strip for the sides : these should be stuck on with the white of an egg, to the bottom piece, and the flanc then filled with raw fruit, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely. It will not require so long baking as in a mould ; but the crust must be made everyv/here of an equal thick- ness, and so perfectly joined, that the juice does not escape. This dish may also be served hot, and should be garnished in the same manner, or a little melted apricot jam may be poured over the apples, which very much improves their flavour. 2Tw6.—Altogether, 1 hour to bake the flanc fror^i 30 to 40 miiiutes to stew the apples very gently. Average cost^ Is, 6d, Sufficient for 1 entremets or side-dish. Seasonable from July to March.