MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 104 of spawning. When they are not in season, the males have a black, and the females a milky substance in the gill. From some lines of Oppian, it would appear that the ancients were ignorant that the oyster is generally found adhering to rocks. The star- fish is one of the most deadly enemies of these bivalves. The poet says :— * The prickly star creeps on with full deceit To force the oyster from his close retreat. When gaping lids their widen'd void display. The watchful star thrusts in a pointed ray. Of all its treasures spoils the rifled case. And empty shells the sandy hillock grace. PBAWW SOUP. 198. Ingeedients.—2 quarts of fish stock or water, 2 pints of prawns, the crumbs of a French roll, anchovy sauce or mushroom ketchup to taste, I blade of mace, i pint of vinegar, a little lemon- juice. Mode,—Pick out the tails of the prawns, put the bodies in a stew- pan with 1 blade of mace, i pint of vinegar, and the same quantity of water; stew them for | hour, and strain off the liquor. Put the fish stock or water into a stewpan; add the strained liquor, pound the prawns with the crumb of a roll moistened with a little of the soup, rub them through a tammy, and mix them by degrees with the soup; add ketchup or anchovy sauce to taste, with a little lemon-juice. When it is well cooked, put in a few picked prawns ; let them get thoroughly hot, and serve. If not thick enough, put in a little butter and fiour. Tvne.—hour. Average cost, Is. Id. per quart, if made with water. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 8 persons. Noie.—This can be thickened with tomatoes, and vermicelli served in it, which makes it a very tasteful soup. The Pbawit.—This little fish bears a striking re- semblance to the shrimp, but is neither so common nor so small.' It is to be found on most of the sandy shores of Europe. The Isle of Wight is famous for shrimps, where they are potted; but both the prawns and the shrimps vended in London, are too much salted for the excellence of their natural are extremely lively little animals, as seen iu their THE PBAWW. flavour to be preserved. They siaLive relicats.