598 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. and drain tliem on a clean cloth; then arrange them on a delicately* white napkin, that it may contrast as strongly as possible with the truffles, and serve. The trimmings of truffles are used to flavour gravies, stock, sauces, &c.; and are an excellent addition to ragouts, made dishes of fowl, &c. Time.—1 hour. Average cost,—Not often bought in this country. Seasonable from November to March. The Teuffle.—The Truffle belongs to the family of the Mushroom. It is certain that the truffle must possess, equally with other plants, organs of reproduction; yet, notwithstanding all the efforts of art and science, it has been impossible to subject it to a regular culture. Truffles grow at a considerable depth under the earth, never appear- ing on the surface. They are found in many parts of France: those of Perigord and Magny are the most esteemed for their odou,r. There are three varieties of the species, —the black, the red, and the white: the latter are of little value. The red are very rare, and their use is restricted. The black has the highest repute, and its consumptiou is enormous. W^hen the peasantry go to gather truffles, they take a pig with them to scent out the spot where they grow. When that is found, the pig turns up the surface with his snout, and the men then dig until they find the truffles. Good truffles are easily distinguished by their agreeable perfume; they should be light in proportion to their size, and elastic when pressed by the finger. To have them in perfection, they should be quite fresh, as their aroma is considerably diminished by any conserving pro- cess. Truffles are stimulating and heating. Weak stomachs digest them with difficulty. Some of the culinary uses to which they are subjected render them more digestible; but they should always be eaten sparingly. Their chief use is in seasoning and garnitures. In short, a professor has said, " Meats with truffles are the most distinguished dishes that opulence can offer to the epicure." The Truffle grows in clusters, some inches below the surface of the soil, and is of an irregular globular form. Those which grow wild in England are about the size of a hen's egg, and have no roots. As there is nothing to indicate the places where they are, dogs have been trained to discriminate their scent, by which they are discovered. Hogs are very fond of them, and frequently lead to their being found, from their rutting up the ground in search of them, ITAIilAIT MODS OF DRESSma TBXJFFLES. 1163. Ingbedien^ts.—10 truffles, | pint of salad-oil, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, a very little flnely-mincej garlic, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Mode,—After cleansing and brushing the truffles, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a baking-dish, on a seasoning of oil, ' pepper, salt, parsley, garlic, and mace in the above proportion. Bake i them for nearly an hour, and, just before serving, add the lemon-juice* | and send them to table very hot. i JVme.—Nearly 1 hour. | Average cost—Eot often bought in this country. ffji Seasonable from ITovember to March. Where Truffles are found.—In this country, the common truffle is founcl on the downs of Hampshire, Wiltshire, and Kent; and they abound in dry light soils, and more i especially in oak and chestnut forests. In France they are plentiful, and many aw i imported from the south of that country and Italy, where they are much larger and m, i greater perfection: they lose, however, much of their flavour by drying. Truffles have i in England been tried to be propagated artificially, but without success. TRUFFLES A L'lTAIiIEITIsrE. 1164. iK'aEEDiEKTS.—10 truffles, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley^ \ 1 minced shalot, -salt and pepper to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablft- !