MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 283 and Suffolk graziers), comiTiences about Christmas and terminates about June, when this breed begins to fall oif, their place being taken by grass-fed oxen. A large quantity of most ezcellent meat is sent to the " dead markets" from Scotland, and some of the best London butchers are supplied from this source. BROILED BEEl^ AISTD MUSHROOM SAUCE (Cold Meat Cookery). 612. Ingredients.—2 or 3 dozen small button mTishrooms, 1 oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, mashed potatoes, slices of cold roast beef. 3Iode,—AYipe the mushrooms free from grit with a piece of flannel, and salt; put them in a stewpan with the butter, seasoning*, and ketchup ; stir over the fire until the mushrooms are quite done, when pour it in the middle of mashed potatoes, browned. Then place round the potatoes slices of cold roast beef, nicely broiled, over a clear fire. In making the mushroom sauce, the ketchup may be dispensed with, if there is sufficient gravy. Time,—| hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 8c?. 8ea$oncible from August to October. BROILED BEEF AND OYSTER SAUCE (Cold Meat Cookery). 613. Ingeedients.—2 dozen oysters, 3 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. of butter, i teaspoonful of flour, cayenne and salt to taste, mashed potatoes, a few slices of cold roast beef. Mode.—Vvit the oysters in a stewpanj with their liquor strained; add the cloves, mace, butter, flour, and seasoning, and let them simmer gently for 5 minutes. Have ready in the centre of a dish round walls of mashed potatoes, browned; into the middle pour the oyster sauce, quite hot, and round the potatoes place, in layers, slices of the beef, which should be previously broiled over a nice clear fire. Time—5 minutes. Average cost, Is, 6c?., exclusive of the cold meat. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from September to April. BROILED BEEP-BONES. 614. Ingredients.—The bones of ribs or sirloin; salt, pepper, and cayenne. Diode.—Separate the bones, taking care that the meat on them is not too thick in any part; sprinkle them well with the above season- ing, and broil over a very clear fire. When nicely browned, they are done; but do not allow them to blacken.