VEGETAELES. m Mode—Yni the beans into cold water, and let tnem soalc from 2 to same genus. Withering states, that before the stems of the common Goats-beard shoot up, the roots, boiled like asparagus, have the same flavour, and are nearly as nutritious. We are also informed by Viilars that the children in Dauphine universally eat the stems and leaves of the young plant before the flowers appear, with great avidity. The fresh juice of these tender herbs is said to be the best solvent of bile. STEV\rED ENDIVE. 1117. IngeedieisTS.—6 heads of endive, salt and water, 1 pint of broth, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, a small lump of sugar. 3fode.—Wash and free the endive thoroughly from insects, remove the green part of the leaves, and put it into boiling water, slightly salted. Let it remain for 10 minutes ; then take it out, drain it til] there is no water remaining, and chop it very fine. Put it into a stewpan with the broth ; add a little salt and a lump of sugar, and boil until the endive is perfectly tender. When done, which may be ascertained by squeezing a piece between the thumb and finger, add a thickening of butter and flour and the lemon-juice : let the sauce boil up, and serve. Time.—10 minutes to boil, 5 minutes to simmer in the broth. Average cost, Id. per head. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from November to March, ENDIVE A LA PRANCAISE. 1118. Ingeedients.—6 heads of endive, 1 pint of broth, 3 oz. of fresh butter; salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Wash and boil the endive as in the preceding recipe ; chop it rather fine, and put into a stewpan with the broth; boil over a brisk fire until the sauce is all reduced; then put in the butter, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg (the latter must be very sparingly used); mix all well together, bring it to the boiling point, and serve very hot. Time.—10 minutes to boil, 0 minutes to simmer in the broth. Average cost, Id. per head. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonnhle from November to March. TO BOIL KABICOTS BLANCS, or WHITE HARICOT BEANS. 1119. Ingkedients.—1 quart of white haricot beans, 2 quarts of soft water, 1 oz. of butter, 1 heaped tablespoonful of salfc.