MODERN nOUSrnOLD COOKERY. added to enrich the gravy : these iiigrediciits must, however, be used very sparingly, or they will overpower the flavour of the venison. The Fallow-Deeb.—This is the domestic or park deer; and no two finimals can make a nearer approach to each other than the staj: nnd it, and yet no two animals keep mox'8 distinct, or avoid each other with a mora inveterate animosity. They never beiJ. or intermix together, and consequently r ever give rise to an intermediate race: it is even rare, unless they have been tiansportcd thither, to find fallow-deer ia a FALLOW-DEEK (bUCE:). country where stags are numerous. He is very esaily tamed, and feeds upon many things which the stag refuses: he also browzes closer than the stag, and preserves his venison better. The doe produces one fawn, sometimes two, but rarely three. In short, they resemble the stag in all his natural habits, and the greatest dilTerencd between them is the duration of their lives : the stag, it is said, lives to the age of thirty-five or forty years, and the fallow-deer does not live more than twenty. As they are smaller than the stag, it is probable that their growth is sooner completed. STEWED VENISOJSr. 1051. Ingeedienis.—A shoulder of venison, a few slices of mutton fat, 2 glasses of port wine, pepper and allspice to taste, 1^ pint of weak stock or gravy, J teaspoonful of w^hole pepper, | teaspoonfui of whole allspice. Mode.—Hang the venison till tender; take out the hone, flatten the meat with a rolling-pin, and place over it a few slices of mutton fat, which have been previously soaked for 2 or 3 hours in port wine; sprinkle these with a little fine allspice and pepper, roll the meat up, and bind and tie it securely. Put it into a stewpan with tlic bone and the above proportion of weak stock or gravy, whole allspice, black pepper, and port wine ; cover the lid down closely, and simmer, very gently, from 3 ^- to 4 hours. When quite tender, take off the tape, and dish tiio meat; strain the gravy over it, and send it to table with red-