309 Mode.—Clear tlie sttet from sidn/anil'^^^^^^^^^^^ and the beef as finely as possible; season "with pepper, salt, and spices, and mix the whole well together. Make it into Hat cakes, and fry of a nice brown. Many persons pound the meat in a mortar after it is chopped; but this is not necessary when the meat is minced finely. Time.—10 minutes. Average costy for this quantit}^ Is. ecL ^Seasonable at any time. - : . . . . .. v BEEF-STEAK, Holled, Boasted, and Stuffed. 663. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of rump-steak, forcemeat No. 417, popper and salt to taste, clarified butter. 3IocIe.—Have the steaks cut rather thick from a well-hung rump of beef, and sprinkle over them a seasoning of pepper and salt. Make a forcemeat by recipe No. 417; spread it over half of the steak; roll it up, bind and skewer it firmly, that the forcemeat may not escape, and roast it before a nice clear fire for about H hour, or rather longer, should the roll be very large and thick. Keep it constantly basted with butter, and serve with brown gravy, some of which must bo poured round the steak, and the remainder sent to table in a tureen. Thne.—U- hour. Average cost^ Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons, SeasonaUe all the year, but best in winter. SlilCSD AlTD BBOILED BEEF-a Pretty Dish. (Cold Meat Cookery). 664. Ingeedients.—A few slices of cold roast beef, 4 or 5 potatoes, a thin batter, pepper and salt to taste. ilfoJe.—Pare the potatoes as you would peel an apple; fry the parings in a thin batter seasoned with salt and pepper, until they are of a light brown colour, and place them on a dish over some slices of beef, which should be nicely seasoned and broiled. Tiyne.—5 minutes to broil the meat. iSeasonable at any time. SPICED BEEF (to Serve Cold). 665. Ingeedients.—14 lbs. of the thick flank or rump of beef, i lb. of coarse sugar, 1 oz. of saltpetre, i lb. of pounded allspice, 1 lb. of common salt. 3Iode.—Rub the sugar well into the beef, and let it lay for 12 hours; then rub the saltpetre and allspice, both of which should be pounded.