28 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. On referring to classical antiquities, we find mentioned, among household utensils, leather bags, baskets constructed of twigs, reeds, and rushes ; boxes, basins, and bellows; bread-moulds, brooms, and brushes ; caldrons, colan- ders, cisterns, and chafing-dishes ; cheese-rasps, knives, and ovens of the Dutch kind; funnels and frying-pans ; handmills, soup-ladles, milk-pails, and oil-jars; presses, scales, and sieves ; spits of different sizes, but some of them large enough to roast an ox ; spoons, fire-tongs, trays, trenchers, and drinking- vessels ; with others for carrying food, preserving milk, and holding cheese. This enumeration, if it does nothing else, will, to some extent, indicate the state of the simpler kinds of mechanical arts among the ancients. In so far as regards the shape and construction of many of the kitchen utensils enumerated above, they bore a great resemblance to our own. This will be seen by the accompanying cuts. Fig. 6 is an ancient stock-pot in bronze, which seems to have been made to hang over the fire, and was found in the buried city of Pompeii. Fig. 7 is one of modern make, and may be obtained either of copper or wrought iron, tinned inside. Fig. 8 is another of antiquity, with a large ladle and colander, with holes attached. It is taken from the column of Trajan. The modern ones can be obtained at all prices, according to size, from Ids. 6d. up to £1. Is, 67. In the Manufacture of these Utensils, bronze metal seems to have been much in favour with the ancients. It was chosen not only for their domestic vessels, but it was also much used for their public sculptures and medals. It is a compound, composed of from six to twelve parts of tin to one hundred of copper. It gives its name to figures and all pieces of sculpture made of it. Brass was another favourite metal, which is composed of copjDor and zinc. It is more fusible than copper, and not so apt to tarnish. In a pure state it is not malleable, unless when hot, and after it has been melted twice it will not bear the hammer. To render it capable of being wrought, it re- quires 7 lb. of lead to be put to 1 cwt. of its own material. The Corinthian brass of antiquity was a mixture of silver, gold, and copper. A fine kind of brass, supposed to be made by the cementation of copper plates with calamine, is, in Germany, hammered out into leaves, and is called Dutch metal in this countr}'. It is employed in the same way as gold leaf. Brass is much used for watchworks, as well as for wire. 68. The braziers, ladles, stewpans, saucepans, gridirons, and colanders of antiquity might generally pass for those of the English manufacture of the present day, in so far as shape is concerned. In proof of this we have placed together the following similar articles of ancient and modern pattern, in order Fiff. 6. Fig. 7. Fig. 8.