MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. tlmt, in 1847, would fetch thirty guineas, is now counted but ordinary chicken-meat, its price is regulated according to its weight when ready for the spit. As for the precious buff eggs, against which, one time of day, guineas were weighed,—send for sixpenn'orth at the cheesemonger's, and you will get at least five; which is just as it should be. For elegance of shape or quality of flesh, the Cocliin cannot for a moment stand comparison with our handsome dunghill; neither can the indescribable mixture of growling and braying, peculiar to the former, vie with the musical trumpeting of our own morning herald : yet our poultry-breeders have been immense gainers by the intro- duction of the ungainly celestial, inasmuch as 7iew blood has been infused into the English chicken family. Of this incalculable advantage we may be sure; while, as to the Cochin's defects, they are certain to be lost in the process of " cross and cross ** breeding. BOILED FOWLS A LA BECHAMEL. 943. Ingredients.—A pair of fowls, 1 pint of Bechamel, No. 367, a few biinclies of boiled brocoli or cauliflower. IfofZe.—Truss and boil the fowls by recipe Fo. 938 ; make a pint of Bechamel sauce by recipe No. 367 ; pour some of this over the fowls, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Garnish the dish with bunches of boiled cauliflowers or brocoli, and serve very hot. The sauce should be made sufficiently thick to adhere to the fowls ; that for the tureen should be thinned by adding a spoonful or two of stock. 2vne,—From i to 1 hour, according to size. Average cost^ in full season, 5s. a pair. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring. Space for Eow^ls.—We are no advocates for converting the domestic fowl into a cage-bird. We have known amateur fowl-keepers—worthy souls, who would butter the very barley they gave their pets, if they thought they would the more enjoy it—coop up a male bird and three or four hens in an ordinary egg-chest placed on its side, and with the front closely barred with iron hooping! This system will not do. Every animal, from man himself to the guinea-pig, must have what is vulgarly, but truly, known as " elbow-roomand it must be self-evident how emphatically this rule applies to winged animals. It may be urged, in the case of domestic fowls, that from constant disuse, and from clipping and plucking, and other sorts of maltreatment, their wings can hardly be regarded as instruments of fiigh*!^ we maintain, however, that you may jjluck a fowl's wing-joints as bare as a pumpkin, but you will not erase from his memory that he is a fowl, and that his proper sphere is the open air. If he likewise reflects that he is an ill-used fowl—a prison-bird—he will then come to the conclusion, that there is not the least use, under such circumstances, for his existence; and you must admit that the decision is only logical and natural. BOILED FOWL, with Oysters. (JSxcellent.) 944. Ingredients.—1 young fowl, 3 dozen oysters, the yolks of 2 eggs, ^ pint of cream. 3fode,—Truss a young fowl as for boiling ; fill the inside with oysters which have been bearded and washed in their own liquor; secure the ends of the fowl, put it into a jar, and plunge the jar into a saucepan of boiling water. Keep it boiling for 1-^- hour, or rather longer ; then take the gravy that has flowed from the oysters and fowl, of which there will be a good quantity; stir in the cream and yolks of eggs,