MODERN HorssnoLD COOKEr.r. 52 101. Albumen is of the nature of the white of eggs; it can be dissolved in cold or tepid water, but coagulates when it is put into water not quite at the boiling-point. From this property in albumen, it is evident that if the meat is put into the stock-pot when the water boils, or after this is made to boil up quickly, the albumen, in both cases, hardens. In the first it rises to the sur- face, in the second it remains in the meat, but in both it prevents the gelatine and osmazome from dissolving; and hence a thin and tasteless stock will be obtained. It ought to bo known, too, that the coagulation of the albumen in the meat, always takes place, more or less, according to the size of the piece, as the parts farthest from the surface always acquire that degree of heat which congeals it before entirely dissolving it. 102. Bones ought always to form a component part of the stock-pot. They are composed of an earthy substance,—to which they owe their solidity,—of gelatine, and a fatty fluid, something like marrow. Two ounces of them con- tain as much gelatine as one jwund of meat; but in them, this is so incased in the earthy substance, that boiling water can dissolve only the surface of whole bones. By breaking them, however, you can dissolve more, because you multiply their surfaces ; and by reducing them to powder or paste, you can dissolve them entirely ; but you must not grind them dry. We have said (99) that gelatine forms the basis of stock; but this, though very nourishing, is entirely without taste ; and to make the stock savoury, it must contain osmazome. Of this, bones do not contain a particle ; and that is the reason why stock made entirely of them, is not liked ; but when you add meat to the broken or pulverized bones, the osmazome contained in it makes the stock . sufficiently savoury. 103. In concluding this part of our subject, the following condensed hints " -^d directions should be attended to in the economy of soup-making :— I. Beef makes the best Stock ; veal stock has less colour and taste; ' whilst mutton sometimes gives it a tallowy smell, far from agreeable, unless the meat has been previously roasted or broiled. Fowls add very little to the flavour of stock, unless they be old and fat. Pigeons, when they are old, add the most flavour to it; and a rabbit or partridge is also a great . improvement. From the freshest meat the best stock is obtained. II. If the Meat be Boiled solely to make stock, it must be cut up into the smallest possible pieces ; but, generally speaking, if it is desired to have good stock and a piece of savoury meat as well, it is necessary to put a rather large piece into the stock-pot, say sufficient for two or three days, during which time the stock will keep well in all weathers. Choose the freshest meat, and liave it cut as thick as possible ; for if it is a thin, flat piece, it will not look well, and will be very soon spoiled by the boiling. III. Never t^ash Meat, as it deprives its surface of all its juices j separat*