CREAMS, JELLIES, OJIELETS, ETC. 701 iltfot/e.—Pare, core, and cut the apples into quarters, and boil them, with the lemon-peel, until tender; then strain off the apples, and run the juice through a jelly-hag ; put the strained juice, with the sugar and isinglass, which has been previously boiled in i pint of water, into a lined saucepan or preserving-pan; boil all together for about I hour, and put the jelly into moulds. When this jelly is nice and clear, and turned out well, it makes a pretty addition to the supper- table, with a little custard or whipped cream round it; the addition of a little lemon-juice improves the flavour, but it is apt to render the jelly muddy and thick. If required to be kept any length of time, rather a larger proportion of sugar must be used. Time—From 1 to U hour to boil the apples; i hour the jelly. Average costy Is. 6d, /Sufficient for a Ij-pint mould. Seasonable from July to March. A PRETTY DISH OF APPLES AND RICE. 1397. Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, the rind of i lemon, sugar to taste, i saltspoonful of salt, 8 apples, ? lb. of sugar, i pint of water, i pint of boiled custard No. 1423. i!ib(?6.—Flavour the milk with lemon-rind, by boiling them together for a few minutes; then take out the peel, and put in the rice, with sufficient sugar to sweeten it nicely, and boil gently until the rice is quite soft; then let it cool. In the mean time pare, quarter, and core the apples, and boil them until tender in a syrup made with sugar and water in the above proportion ; and, when soft, lift them out on a sieve to drain. Now put a middling-sized gallipot in the centre of a dish ; lay the rice all round till the top of the gallipot is reached; smooth the rice with the back of a spoon, and stick the apples into it in rows, one row sloping to the right and the next to the left. Set it in the oven to colour the apples ; then, when required for table, remove the gallipot, garnish the rice with preserved fruits, and pour in the middle sufficient custard, made by recipe No. 1423, to be level with the top of the rice, and serve hot. Time—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples ; J hour to simmer the rice ; ^ hour to bake. Average costy Is. 6d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. APPLES A LA PORTUGAISB. 1398. Ingeedients.—8 good boiling apples, i pint of water, 6 oz of sugar, a layer of apple marmalade No. 1395, 8 preserved cherries, garnishing of apricot jam. Mode.—'Feel the apples, and, with a vegetable-cutter, Dush out the