risn. m same as in the preceding recipe, and seasoned with pepper and salt. They may be served without sauce ; but if any is required, use melted butter, Italian or anchovy sauce. They should never be plain boiled. The Stbiped Eed Mullet.—This fish was very highly esteemed by the ancients, especially by the Komans, who gave the most extravagant prices for it. Those of 2 lbs. weight were valued at about £15 each; those of 4 lbs. at £Q0, and, in the reign of Tiberius, three of them were sold for £209. To witness the changing loveliness of their colour during their dying agonies, was one of the principal reasons that such a higb price was paid for one of these fishes. It fre- quents our ^jornisn ana oussex coasts, auu is in high request, the flesh being firm, white, and well flavoured. PBIED OY-STERS. 286. INGREDIENTS.—3 dozeii oysters, 2 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful of ketcliup, a little chopped lemon-peel, i teaspoonfiil of chopped parsley. Mode.—Boil the oysters for 1 minute in their own liquor, and drain them; fry them with the butter, ketchup, lemon-peel, and parsley; lay them on a dish, and garnish with fried potatoes, toasted sippets, and parsley. This is a delicious delicacy, and is a fayourite Italian dish. Time,—5 minutes. Avei-age cost for this quantit3^, Is, Seasonahle from September to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Edible Otstek.—This shell-fish is almost universally distributed near the shores of seas in all latitudes, and they especially abound on the coasts of France an^ Sritain. The coasts most celebrated, in England, for tbem, are those of Essex and Suffolk. lier^e they are dredged up by means of a net vrith an iron scraper at the mouth, tbat is dragged by a rope from a boat over the beds. As soon as taken from their native beds, they are stored in pits, formed for the iDurpose, furnished with sluices, through which, at the spring tides, the water is suffered to flow. This water, being stagnant, soon becomes green in warm weather; and, in a few days afterwards, the oysters acquire the same tinge, which increases their value in the market. They do not, however, attain their perfection and become fit for sale till the end of six or eight weeks. Oysters are not considered proper for the table till they are about a year and a half oldj so that the brood of one spring are not to be taken for sale, till, at least, the September: twelvemonth afterwarda. THE EDIBLE OYSTEK. SCALLOPED OYSTERS. I. 287. Ikgredients.—Oysters, say 1 pint, 1 oz. butter, flour, 2 table- spoonfuls of white stock, 2 tablespoonfals of cream ; pepper and salt to taste; bread crumbs, oiled butter. i!ibc?e.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, take them out, beardi.