219 SAUCES> ETC. and let it simmer for about 5 minutes; then strain and serve the sauce in a tureen. Time.—5 minutes. Average costy for this quantity, 8d, SAUSAGE-MEAT STUFFING-, for Turkey. 520. Ingkediekts.—6 oz. of lean pork, 6 oz. of fat pork, both weighed after being chopped (beef suet may be substituted for the latter), 2 oz. of bread crumbs, 1 small tablespoonful of minced sage, 1 blade of pounded mace, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. 3Iode.—Chop the meat and fat very finely, mix with them the other ingredients, taking care that the whole is thoroughly incorporated. Moisten with the egg, and the stuffing will be ready for use. Equal quantities of this stuffing and forcemeat, No. 417, will be found to answer very well, as the herbs, lemon-peel, &c. in the latter, impart a very delicious flavour to the sausage-meat. As preparations, how- ever, like stuffings and forcemeats, are matters to be decided by individual tastes, they must be left, to a great extent, to the dis- crimination of the cook, who should study her employer's taste in this, as in every other respect. Average cost, 9cl. Sufficient for a small turkey. SAVOUBY JELLY FOR MEAT PIES. 521. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of shin of beef, 1 calf's-foot, 3 lbs. of knuckle of veal, poultry trimmings (if for game pies, any game trim- mings), 2 onions stuck with cloves, 2 carrots, 4 shalots, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 bay-leaves; when liked, 2 blades of mace and a little spice; 2 slices of lean ham, rather more than 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut up the meat and put it into a stewpan with all the ingredients except the water; set it over a slow fire to drawdown, and, when the gravy ceases to flow from the meat, pour in the water. Let it boil up, then carefully take away all scum from the top. Cover the stewpan closely, and let the stock simmer very gently for 4 hours : if rapidly boiled, the jelly will not be clear. When done, strain it through a fine sieve or flannel bag ; and when cold, the jelly should be quite transparent. If this is not the case, clarify it with the whites of eggs, as described in recipe No. 109. Time.—4 hours. Average costy for this quantity, 5s. SHBIMP SAUCE, for Various Kinds of Fish. 522. Tngeedients.—J pint of melted butter (No. 376), i pint of picked shrimps, cayenne to taste.