718 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, Average cost, 2s., if made with sherry; less with raisin-wine, Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonahle at any time. Pale Sheebies are made from the same grapes as brown. The latter are coloured by an addition of some cheap must, or wine which has been boiled till it has acquired a deep-brown tint. Pale sherries were, some time ago, preferred in England, being sup- posed most pure ; but the brown are preferred by many people. The inferior sherries exported to England are often mixed with a cheap and light v.ine called Moguor, and are strengthened in the making by brandy j but too frequently they are adulterated by the London dealers. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 1427. IiTCfEEDiENTS.—4 cggs, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 3 oz. of the best chocolate. Mode.—Break the eggs, separating the whites from the 3'olks, and put them into different basins ; add to the yolks the sugar, flour, and chocolate, which should be very finely grated, and stir these ingre- dients for 5 minutes. Then well whisk the whites of the eggs in the other basin, until they are stifl", and, when firm, mix lightly with the yolks, till the whole forms a smooth and light substance ; butter a round cake-tin, put in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Pin a white napkin round the tin, strew sifted sugar over the top of the souflle, and send it immediately table. The proper appearance of this dish depends entirely on the expedition with which it is served, and som.e cooks, to preserve lightness, hold a salamander over the souffle until it is placed on the table. If allowed to stand after it comes from the oven, it Vvill entirely spoiled, as it falls almost immediately-. Tmie.—15 to 20 minutes. Avei^age cost. Is. Sufficient for a moderate-sized souffle. Seasonahle at any time. DABIOIiDS A LA VAIMILLjU. (Stveet Entremets.) 1428. IiTGEEDiENTS.—i pint of milk, ^ pint of cream, 2oz. of flour, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, 6 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, puff-paste, flavouring of essence of vanilla. 3£ode.—Mix the flour to a smooth batter, with the milk ; stir in the cream, sugar, the eggs, which should be well whisked, and the butter, which should be beaten to a cream. Put in some essence of vanilla, drop by drop, until the mixture is well flavoured; line some dariole- moulds with puff-paste, three-parts fill them with the batter, and bake in a good oven from 25 to 35 minutes. Turn them out of the moulds on a dish, without breaking them; strew over sifted sugar, and serve. The flavouring of the darioles may be varied by substi- tuting lemon, cinnamon, or almonds, for the vanilla. JVme.—25 to 35 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sd. Sufficient to fill 6 or 7 dariole-moulds. Seasonahle at any time.