140 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEPvY. How THE LOBSTEB Feeds.—The pincers of the lobster's large claws are furnished with nobs, and those of the other, are always serrated. With the former, it keeps firm hold of the stalks of submarine plants, and with the latter, it cuts and minces its food with great dexterity. The knobbed, or numb claw, as it is called by fishermen, is sometimes on the right and sometimes on the left, indifierently. BAKED MACKEBEI,. 279. Ingredieitts.—4 middling-sized mackerel, a nice delicate forcemeat {see Forcemeats), 3 oz. of butter; pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Clean the fish, take out the roes, and fill up with forcemeat, and sew up the slit. Flour, and put them in a dish, heads and tails alternately, with the roes; and, between each layer, put some little pieces of butter, and pepper and salt. Bake for i an hour, and either serve with plain melted butter or a maitre cVhotel sauce. Time.—J hour. Average cost for this quantity, Is. lOfZ. Seasoiiahle from April to July. Sufficient for 6 persons. Note.—Baked mackerel may be dressed in the same way as baked herrings {see No. 268), and may also be stewed in wine. Weight op the Mackeeel.—The greatest weight of this fish seldom exceeds 2 lbs., whilst their ordinary length runs between 14 and 20 inches. They die almost immediately after they are taken from their element, and, for a short time, exhibit a phosphoric light. BOILED MACKEREL. 280. Iis'GEEDiENTS.—J lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the inside of the fish thoroughly, and lay it in the kettle with sufiicient water to cover it with salt as above; bring it gradually to boil, skim well, and simmer gently till done; dish them on a hot napkin, heads and tails alternately, and garnish with fennel. Fennel sauce and plain melted butter are the usual accompaniments to boiled mackerel; but caper or anchovy sauce is sometimes served with it. {See Coloured Plate, F.) Time.—After the w^ater boils, 10 minutes ; for large mackerel, allow more time. Average costy from id. Seasonable from April to July. Note.—When variety is desired, fillet the mackerel, boil it, and pour over parsley and butter ; send some of this, besides, in a tureen. BBOILED MACKEREL. 281. Ij^geedients.—Pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of oil. Mode.—Mackerel should never be washed when intended to be broiled, but merely wiped very clean and dry, after taking out the gills and insides. Open the back, and put in a little pepper, salt, and