Ill FISH AS AN ARTICLE 0? HUMAN FOOD. have, almost from time immemorial, occupied a high place irx the estimation of every civilized country ; yet the Greeks, in their earlier ages, made very little use of fish as an article of diet. In the eyes of the heroes of Homer it had little favour; for Menelaus complained that ''hunger pressed their digestive organs," and they had been obliged to live upon fish. Subsequently, however, fish became one of the principal articles of diet amongst the Hellenes ; and both Aristophanes and Athenseus allude to it, and even satirize their countrymen for their excessive partiality to the turbot and mullet. So infatuated were many of the Greek gastronomes with the love of fish, that some of them would h?,ve preferred death from indigestion to the relinquishment of the precious dainties with which a few of the species supplied them. Phiioxenes of Cythera was one of these. On being informed by his physician that he was going to die of indigestion, on account of the quantity he was consuming of a delicious fish, "Be it so," he calmly observed; " but before I die, let me finish the remainder." 213. The GEOGr.APniCAL Situation of Greece vs^as highly favourable for the development of a taste for the piscatory tribes ; and the skill of the Greek cooks was so great, that they could impart every variety of relish to the dish they were called upon to prepare. Athenaeus has transmitted to posterity some very important precepts upon their ingenuity in seasoning with salt, oil, and aromatics. At the present day the food of the Greeks, through the combined influence of poverty and the long fasts which their religion imposes upon them, is, to a large extent, composed of fish, accompanied with vegetables and fruit. Caviare, x^repared from the roes of sturgeons, is the national ragout, which, Hke all other fish dishes, they season with aromatic herbs. Snails dressed in garhc are also a favourite dish. 214. As THE Romans, in a great measure, took their taste in the fine arts from the Greeks, so did they, in some measure, their piscine appetites. The eel-pout and the lotas's liver were the favourite fish dishes of the Eoman epicures; whilst the red mullet was esteemed as one of the most delicate fishes that could be brought to the table. "With all the elegance, taste, and refinement of Eoman luxury, it was sometim.es promoted or accompanied by acts of great barbarity. In proof of this, the mention of the red mullet suggests the mode in which it was sometimes treated for the, to us, horrible entertainment of the fashionable in Eoman circles. It may be premised, that as England has, Eome, in her pahny days, had, her fops, who had, no doubt, through the medium of their cooks, discovered that when the scales of the red mullet were removed, the flesh presented a fine pink-colour. Having discovered this, it was further observed that at the death of the animal, this colour passed through a succession of beautiful shades, and, in order that these might be witnessed and enjoyed in theh: fullest perfection, the poor mullet was served alive in a glass vessel. 215. The love of Fish among the ancient Romans rose to a real mania. Apicius offered a prize to any one who could invent a new brine compounded of the liver of red mullets; and LucuUus had a canal cut through a mountain, in the neighbourhood of Naj^les, that fish might be the more easily transported to the gardens of his villa. Hortensius, the orator, wept over the death of a turbot which he had fed with his own hands; and the daughter of Druses adorned one that she had, with rings of gold. These were, surely, instances of misplaced affection ; but there is no accounting for tastes. It was but tho