SAUCES, ETC. 243 The Olive ai^d Olive Oil.—This tree assumes a liigli degree of interest from the historical circumstances vv'itli wLicli it is connected, A leaf of it was brought into the ark by the dove, when that vessel was still floating on the waters of the great deep, and gave the first token that the deluge was subsiding. Among the Greeks, the prize of the victor in the Olympic games was a v.'reath of wild olive; and the " Mount of Olives" is rendered familiar to our ears by its being mentioned in the Scriptures as near to Jei'usalem. The tree is indigenous in the north of Africa, Syria, and Greece; and the Eomans introduced it to Italy. In Spain and the south of France it is now cultivated; and although it grows in England, its fruit does not ripen in the open air. Both in Greece and Por- tugal the fruit is eaten in its ripe state; but its taste is not agreeable to many palates. To the Italian shep' erd, bread and olives, with a little wine, form a nourishing diet; but in England, olives are usually only introduced by way of dessert, to destroy the taste of the viands v/hich have been previously eaten, that the flavour of the wine may be the better enjoyed. There are three kinds of olives imported to London,—the French, Sxianish, and Italian: the first are from Provence, and are generally accounted exceUent; the second are larger, but more bitter; and the last are from Lucca, and are esteemed the best. The oil extracted from olives, called olive oil, or salad oil, is, with the continentals, in continual request, more dishes being prepared with than without it, we should imagine. With us, it is principally used in mixing a salad, and when thus employed, it tends to prevent fermentation, and is an antidote against flatulency. THE OLIVE. II. 507. iNGEEDiEiiTTS.—4 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, J tea- spoonful of white pepper, half that quantity of cayenne, salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, vinegar. Ifode,—Boil the eggs until hard, which will be in about i hour or 20 minutes; put them into cold water, take off the shells, and pound the yolks in a mortar to a smooth paste. Then add all the other ingredients, except the vinegar, and stir them well until the whole are thoroughly incorporated one with the other. Pour in sufficient vinegar to make it of the consistency of cream, taking care to add but little at a time. The mixture will then be ready for use. Average cost^ for this quantity. Id. Sufficient for a moderate-sized salad. Note.—The whites 01 the eggs, cut into rings, will serve very well as a garnishing to the salad. III. 508. Ingeediekts.—1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of salad oil, 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, i teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, 6 tablespoonfuls of cream. JiocZe.—Prepare and mix the ingredients by the preceding recipe, and be very particular that the whole is well stirred. Note.—In making salads, the vegetables, &c., should never be added to the sauce very long before they are wanted for table; the dressing, however, may B 2