1C2 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. DBIED SPBATS. 331. Dried sprats shoiiid be put into a basin, and boiling water poured over them; they may then be skinned and served, and this will be found a much better way than boiling them. Tee Speat.—This migratory fish is rarely found longer than four or five inches, and visits the shores of Britain after the herring and other kinds of fish have taken their departure from them. On the coasts of Sufiblk, Essex, and TO^^S^^^^^^^ Kent, they are very abundant, and from 400 to S^^^^^^^^ 500 boats are employed in catching them during the winter season. Besides plentifully supplying THE SPK.AT London market, they are frequently sold at sixpence a bushel to farmers for manuring pur- poses. They enter the Thames about the beginning of JS'ovember, and leave it in March. At Yarmouth and Gravesend they are cured like red herrings. BAKED STURaEOlT. 332. Ingeedients.—1 small sturgeon, salt and pepper to taste, 1 small bunch of herbs, the juice of i lemon, j lb. of butter, 1 pint of white wine. Mode.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly, skin it, and split it along the belly without separating it; have ready a large baking-dish, in which lay the fish, sprinkle over the seasoning and herbs very finely minced, and moisten it with the lemon-juice and wine. Place the butter in small pieces over the whole of the fish, put it in the oven, and baste frequently; brown it nicely, and serve with its own gravy. Time.—JSTearly 1 hour. Average cost^ Is. to Is. Qd. per lb. Seasonable from August to March. The Sturgeon.—This fish commences the sixth of the Linnsean order, and all the species are large, seldom measuring, when full-grown, less than three or four feet ia length. Its flesh is reckoned extremely delicious, and, in the time of the emperor Severn?, was so highly valued by the ancients, that it was brought to table by servants crowned with coronets, and preceded by a band of music^ It is an inhabitant of the Baltic, the Mediter- ranean, the Caspian, and the Black Sea, and of the Danube, the Volga, the Don, and other large rivers. It is abundant in the rivers of North America, and is occasionally taken in the Thames, as well as in the Eske and the Eden. It is one of those fishes considered as I'oyal property. It is from its roe that caviare, a favourite food of the Eussians, is prepared. Its flesh is dehcate, firm, and white, but is rare in the London market, where it sells for Is. or Is. Gd. per lb. The Steelet is a smaller species of sturgeon, found in the Caspian Sea and some Kussian rivers. It also is greatly prized on account of the delicacy of its flesh. the sturgeon. FvOAST STUHGEOJNT. 333. Ingbediejjts.—Yeal stuffing, buttered paper, the tail-end of a sturgeon. itZbi/e.—Cleanse the fish, bone and skin it; make a nice veal stuffing