CREAMS^ JELLIES, OJIELETS, ETC. 703 of i lemon minced very fine, 6 oz. of rice, l a- pint of milk, sugar to taste, i teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 6 tablespoonfuls of apricot jam. 3Iode,—'Peel the apples, halve them, and take out the cores; put them into a stewpan with the butter, and strew sulSicient sifted sugar over to sweeten them, nicely, and add the minced lemon-peel. Stew the apples very gently until tender, taking care they do not break. Boil the rice, with the milk, sugar, and nutmeg, until soft, and, when thoroughly done, dish it, piled high in the centre ; arrange the apples on it, warm the apricot jam, pour it over the whole, and serve hot. Time.—About 30 minutes to stew the apples very gently; about f hour to cook the rice. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for o or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. APPLE sisrow. {A jpretty Sujyper Dish.) 1401. Inghedieistts.—10 good-sized apples, the whites of 10 eggs, the rind of 1 lemon, ^ lb. of pounded sugar. 3Iode,—Peel, core, and cut the apples into quarters, and put them into a saucepan with the lemon-peel and sufficient water to prevent them from burning,—rather less than i pint. When they are tender, take out the peel, beat them to a pulp, let them cool, and stir them to the whites of the eggs, which should be previously beaten to a strong froth. Add the sifted sugar, and continue the whisking until the mixture becomes quite stiff; and either heap it on a glass dish, or serve it in small glasses. The dish may be garnished with pre- served barberries, or strips of bright-coloured jelly; and a dish of custards should be served with it, or a jug of cream. Time.—^xom 30 to 40 minutes to stew the apples. Average cost, \s, Qd, Sufficient to fill a moderate-sized glass dish. Seasonable from July to March. APPLE SOUFFLE. 1402. Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, the rind of I lemon, sugar to taste, the yolks of 4 eggs, the whites of 6, 1^ oz. of butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of apple marmalade ^0. 1395. Mode,—'hoil the milk with the lemon-peel until the former is well flavoured; then strain it, put in the rice, and let it gradually swell oyer a slow fire, adding sufiicient sugar to sweeten it nicely. Then