BEEF. 295 Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, according to the thickness of the slices. Average cost, 9c?. each. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonalle at any time. III. A more Simple MetJiod. 634. Cut the kidney into thin slices, flour them, and fry of a nice brown. "When done, make a gravy in the pan by pouring away the fat, putting in a small piece of butter, J pint of boiling water, pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Let the gravy just boil up, pour over the kidney, and serve. BOILED MABKOW-BOISTES. 635. Ingkebients.—Bones, a small piece of common paste, a floured cloth. 3Iode.—Have the bones neatly sawed into convenient sizes, and cover the ends with a small piece of common crust, made with flour and water. Over this tie a floured cloth, and place them upright in a saucepan of boiling water, taking care there is sufficient to cover the bones. Boil them for 2 hours, remove the cloth and paste, and serve them upright on a napkin with dry toast. Many persons clear the marrow from the bones after they are cooked, spread it over a slice of toast and add a seasoning of pepper ; when served in this manner, it must be very expeditiously sent to table, as it so soon gets cold. Time.—2 hours. Seasonable at any time. I^ote.—Marrow-bones may be baked after preparing them as in the pre- ceding recipe ; they should be laid in a deep dish, and baked for 2 hours. Marrow-Bones.—Bones are formed of a dense cellular tissue of membranous matter, made stiff and rigid by insoluble earthy salts; of which, phosphate of lime is the most abundant. In a large bone, the insoluble matter is generally deposited in such a manner as to leave a cavity, into which a fatty substance, distinguished by the name of marrow, is thrown. Hollow cyhndi-ical bones possess the quahties of strength and lightness in a remarkable degree. If bones were entirely sohd, they would be unnecessarily heavy; and if their mate- rials were brought into smaller compass, they would be weaker, because the strength of a bone is in proportion MARROW-BoifES. to the distance at which its fibres are from the centre. Some animals, it must, how- ever, be observed, have no cavities in the centre of their bones j such as the whale tribe, skate, and turtles. MIJSrOED BEEF (Cold Meat Cookery). 636. Ingredients.—1 oz. of butter, 1 small onion, 2 tablespoonfiils of gravy left from the meat, 1 tablespoonful of strong ale, * a tea-