MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 468 will be inclmed to recover them if possible. Give tliem none but warm food, lialf a peppercorn rolled in a morsel of dough every night, and a little nitre in their water. Above all, keep them warm; a corner in the kitchen fender, for a day or two, will do more to effect a cure than the run of a druggist's warehouse. CBOaUETTES OP FOWL (an Entree). 954. Ingredients.-—3 or 4 slialots, 1 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, white sauce; pepper, salt, and pounded mace to taste; 4 tea- spoonful of pounded sugar, the remains of cold roast fowls, the yolks of 2 eggs, egg, and bread crumbs. Mode.—Mince the fowl, carefully removing all skin and bone, and fry the shalots in the butter ; add the minced fowl, dredge in the flour, put in the pepper, salt, mace, pounded sugar, and sufficient white sauce to moisten it; stir to it the yolks of 2 well-beaten eggs, and set it-by to cool. Then make tht3 mixture up into balls, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry a nice brown. They may be served on a border of mashed potatoes, with gravy or sauce in the centre. Time.—10 minutes to fry the balls. Seasonable at any time. The Tuen".—What is termed " turrling" with song-birds, is known, as regard fowls, as the *' turn." Its origin is the same in both cases,—over-feeding and want of exercise. Without a moment's warning, a fowl so afilicted will totter and fall from its perch, and unless assistance be at hand, speedily give up the ghost. The veins of the palate should be opened, and a few drops^ of a mixture composed of six parts of sweet nitre and one of ammonia, poured down its throat. I have seen ignorant keepers plunge a bird, stricken with the '* turn," into cold water; but I never saw it taken out again ahve; and for a good reason: the sudden chill has the effect of driving the blood to the head,—of aggravating the disease indeed, instead of relieving it. HASHED FOWL—an Entree (Cold Meat Cookery). 955. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 1 pint of water, 1 onion, 2 or three small carrots, 1 blade of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, thickening of butter and flour, li tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Ifode.—Cut off the best joints from the fowl, and the remainder make into gravy, by adding to the bones and trimmings a pint oi water, an onion sliced and fried of a nice brown, the carrots, mace, seasoning, and herbs. Let these stew gently for Ij hour, strain the liquor, and thicken with a little flour and butter. Lay in the fowl, thoroughly warm it through, add the ketchup, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether 1J hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, id. Seasonable at any time. Skitt-bisease in- Fowls.—Skin-disease is, nine times out of ten, caused by the feathers being swarmed by parasites. Poor feeding -oill induce this, even if cleanliness be observed; uncleanliuess, however liberal the bill of fare, will be taken as an invitation