726 MODERN HOUSEKOLD COOKL'RY, Mode,—Make a custard with the yolks of the eggs and J pint of the milk, and, when done> put it into a basin : put half the remainder of the milk into a saucepan with the ground rice, fresh butter, lemon-rind, and 3 oz. of the sugar, and let these ingredients boil until the mixture is still, stirring them continually; when done, pour it into the bowl where the custard is, mixing both well together. Put the gelatine with the rest of the milk into a saucepan, and let it stand by the side of the lire to dissolve; boil for a minute or two, stir carefully into the basin, adding 3 oz. more of pounded sugar. When cold, stir in the lemon-juice, which should be carefully strained, and pour the mixture into a well-oiled mould, leaving cut the lemon-peel, and set the mould in a .pan of cold water until wanted for table. Use eggs that have rich-looking yolks ; and, should the weather be very warm, rather a larger proportion of gela- tine must be allowed. Time.—Altogether, | hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sujfficierd to nil 2 small moulds. Seasonable at any time. ELA:;rC3IAXGE MOULD. 1443. Ikgeedients.—1 pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs, | lb. of white sugar, 1 large lemon, 1 oz. of isinglass. 3fode.—Put the cream into a lijicd saucepan with the sugar, lemon- peel, and isinglass, and simmer these over a gentle fire for aboRt 10 minutes, stirring them all the time. Strain the cream into a jug, add the yolks of eggs, which should be well beaten, and put the jug into a sauce- (I pan of boiling water ; stir the mixture i| one way until it thickens, but do not cdloio it to boil; take it off the fire, and keep stirring it until nearly ccld. Strain the lemon-juice into a basin, Li:^:o^--cBEA2i '^ouLD. gradually pour on it the cream, and stir it ivell until the juice is well mixed with it. Have ready a well- oiled mould, pour the cream into it, and let it remain until perfectly set. When required for table, loosen the edges with a small blunt knife, put a dish on the top of the mould, turn it over quickly, and the cream should easily slip away.