MUTTON. court of his friend. When safa at Colchis, Phryxus ofTered the ram on the altars of Mars, and pocketed the fleece. The Idng received him with great kindness, and gave him his daughter Chalciope in marriage; but, some time after, he murdered him iu order to obtain possession of the precious fleece. The murder of Phrjxus was amply revenged by the Greeks. It gave rise to the famous Argonautic expedition, under- taken by Jason and fifty of the most celebrated heroes of Greece. The Argonauts recovered the fleece by the help of the celebrated sorceress Medea, daughter of iEetes, who fell desperately in love with the gallant but faithless Jason. In the story of the voyage of the Argo, a substratum of truth probably exists, though overlaid by a mass of fiction. The ram which carried Phryxus to Colchis is by some supposed to have been the name of the ship in which he embarked. The fleece of gold is thought to represent the immense treasures he bore away from Thebes. The alchemists of the fifteenth century were firmly convinced that the Golden Meece was a treatise oa the transmuta- tion of metals, written on sheepskin. HABICOT MUTTOIS". I. 716. Ingeedients.—4 lbs. of the middle or best end of tbe neck of mutton, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 3 onions, pepper and salt to taste, 1 table- spoonful of ketchup or Harvey's sauce. Mode,—Trim off some of the fat, cut the mutton into rather thin chops, and put them into a frying-pan with the fat trimmings. Fry of a pale brown, but do not cook them enough for eating. Cut the carrots and turnips into dice, and the onions into slices, and slightly fry them in the same fat that the mutton was browned in, but do not allow them to take any colour. E"ow lay the mutton at the bottom of a stewpan, then the vegetables, and pour over them just sufficient boiling water to cover the whole. Give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently until the meat is tender. Skim off every particle of fat, add a seasoning of pepper and salt, and a little ketchup, and serve. This dish is very much better if made the day before it is wanted for table, as the fat can be so much more easily removed when the gravy is cold. This should be particularly attended to, as it is apt to be rather rich and greasy if eaten the same day it is made. It should be served in rather a deep dish. Time,—2^ hours to simmer gently. Average cost, for this quantity, 8s. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. n. 717. Ii^GREDiENTS.—Breast or scrag of mutton, flour, pepper and salt to taste,^ 1 large onion, 3 cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, 1 blade of mace, carrots and. turnips, sugar. Mode,—Cut the mutton into square pieces, and fry them a nice colour; then dredge over them a little flour and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Put all into a stewpan, and moisten with boiling water, adding the onion, stuck with 3 cloves, the mace, and herbs. Simmer