683 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. over the fire until of a pale brown; then add the cherries, the pounded kernels, the wine, and the water. Simmer these gently for J hour, or until the cherries are quite cooked, and rub the whole through a hair sieve; add the remaining ingredients, let the sauce boil for another 5 minutes, and serve. This is a delicious sauce to serve with boiled batter pudding, and v/hen thus used, should be sent to table poured over the pudding. Time.—20 minutes to i hour. Average costy Is. 2d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in June, July, and August. IjEMOlSr SAUCS FOR SWEET PUDDINGS. 1358. Ingredients.—The rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 oz. of butter, 1 large wineglassful of sherry, 1 wineglassful of water, sugar to taste, the yolks of 4 eggs. Mode.—Ruh the rind of the lemon on to some lumps of sugar; squeeze out the juice, and strain it; put the butter and flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire, and when of a pale brown, add the wine, water, and strained lemon-juice. Crush the lumps of sugar that were rubbed on the lemon; stir these into the sauce, which should be very sweet. When these ingredients are well mixed, and the sugar 13 melted, put in the beaten yolks of 4 eggs ; keep stirring the sauce until it thickens, when serve. Do not, on any account, allow it to boil, or it will curdle, and be entirely spoiled. Twie.—Altogether, 15 minutes. Average cost, Is. 2d, Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. SOYER'S SAUCE FOR PXiUM-PUDDmG. 1359. Ingredients.—The yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of pow- dered sugar, 1 gill of milk, a very little grated lemon-rind, 2 small wineglassfuls of brandy. Mode.—Separate the yolks from the whites of 3 eggs, and put the former into a stewpan ; add the sugar, milk, and grated lemon-rind, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens ; but do not allow it to hoiL Tut in the brandy; let the sauce stand by the side of the fire, to get quite hot; keep stirring it, and serve in a boat or tureen separately, or pour it over the pudding. Tt7ne.—Altogether, 10 minutes. Average cost, Is, Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. SWEET SAUCE FOR PUDDIKGS. 1360. iNGREDiENTS.—i pint of melted butter made with milk, 3 heaped teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, flavouring of grated lemon- rind, or nutmeg, or cinnamon.