55B VEGETABLES. and boil them in salt and water until tender. Have ready i pint of BOILED JEHUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 1084. Ingeedients.—To each § gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt; artichokes. Wash, peel, and shape the artichokes in a round or oval form, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, salted in the above proportion. Let them boil gently ^hxichokes. until tender; take them up, drain them, and serve them in a napkin, or plain, whichever mode is preferred ; send to table with them a tureen of melted butter or cream sauce, a little of which may be poured over the artichokes when they are not served in a napkin. Time.—About 20 minutes after the water boils. A verage costy 2d. per lb. Sufficienty—\Q for a dish for 6 persons. Seasonable from September to June. Uses of the Jerusalem Aktichoke.—This being a tuberous-rooted plant, with leafy stems from lour to six feet bigli, it is alleged that its tops will atfbrd as mucli fodder per acre as a crop of oats, or more, and its roots half as mnny tubers as an ordinary crop of potatoes. The tubers, being abundant in the market-gardens, are to be had at little more than the price of potatoes. The fibres of tlie stems may be separated by maceration, and manufactured into cordage or cloth; and this is said to be done in some parts of the north and ^Yest of France, as about Hagenau, where this plant, on the poor Euudy soils, is an object of field culture. MASHED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 1085. Ingeedients.—To each \ gallon of water allow 1 oz. of salt; 15 or 16 artichokes, 1 oz. butter, pepper and salt to taste. 3Iode.—Boil the artichokes as in the preceding recipe until tender; drain and press the water from them, and beat them up with a fork. When thoroughly mashed and free from lumps, put them into a saucepan with the butter and a seasoning of tvJiite pepper and salt; keep stirring over the lire until the artichokes are quite hot, and serve. Ti7ne.—About 20 minutes. Average costj 2d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonahle from September to June. JEHUSALEM ARTICHOKES WITH WHITE SAUCE. ;Entremets, or to be served with the Second Course as a Side-dish.) 1086. Ingeedients.—12 to 15 artichokes, 12 to 15 Brussels sprouts, 2 pint of white sauce, No. 538. Mode.—Peel and cut the artichokes in the shape of a pear; cut a piece oftHhe bottom of each, that they may stand upright in the dish,