MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 462 and the sauce should be made hot, but must not boil, or it will instantly curdle. A few button-mushrooms stewed with the fowl are by many persons considered an improvement. Time—I hour to make the gravy, i hour to simmer the fowl. Average cost, 5s. the pair. Si/fficient.—l large fowl for one entree. Seasonable at any time. Stocking the Fowl-house.—Take care that the birds with which you stock your house are young. The surest indications of old age are fading of the comb and gills from brilliant red to a dingy brick-colour, general paleness of plumage, brittleness of the feathers, length and size of the claws, and the scales of the legs and feet assuming a ragged and corny appearance. Your cock and hens should be as near two years old as possible. Hens will lay at a year old, but the eggs are always insignificant in size, and the layers giddy and unsteady sitters. The hen-bird is in her prime for breeding at three years old, and will continue so, under favourable circumstances, for two years longer ; after which she will decline. Crowing hens, and those that have large combs, are generally looked on with mistrust; but this is mere silliness and siiperstition—though it is possible that a spruce young cock would as much object to a s^Douse with such peculiar addictions, as a young fellow of our own species wouJd to a damsel who whistled and who wore v/hiskers. Fowls with yellow legs should be avoided; they are generally of a tender constitution, loose-fleshed, and of indifferent flavour. FBIOASSESD FOWL (Cold Meat Cookery). 946. Ik'geediekts.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 1 onion, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of flour, 5 pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode,—Carve the fowls into nice joints; make gravy of the trim- mings and legs, by stewing them with the lemon-peel, mace, herbs, onion, seasoning, and water, until reduced to | pint; then strain, and put in the fowl. Warm it through, and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour; stir the yolks of the eggs into the cream; add these to the sauce, let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. Time.—1 hour to make the gravy, f hour to warm the fowl. Average costy exclusive of the cold chicken, Seasonable at any time. Chaeacxeiiistics of Health and Powee.—The chief characteristics of health in a fowl are brightness and dryness of eye and nostrils, the comb and wattles firm and ruddy, the feathers elastic and glossy. The most useful cock is generally the greatest tyrant, who struts among his hens despotically, with his head erect and his eyes ever watchful. There is likely to be handsomer and stronger chicks in a house where a bold, active— even savage—bird reigns, than vrhere the lord of the hen-house is a weak, meek creature, who bears the abuse and peckings of his wives without a remonstrance. I much prefer dark-coloured cock-birds to those of light plumage. A cock, to be handsome, should be of middling size ; his bill should be short, comb bright-red, wattles large, breast broad, and wings strong. His head should be rather small than otherwise, his legs short and sturdy, and his spurs well-formed; his feathers should be short and close, and the more frequently and heartily he crows, the better father he is likely to become. The common error of choosing hens above the ordinary stature of their respective varieties should be avoided, as the best breeding-hens are those of medium size.