HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1072 get well, and the skin may or may not peel off.—Constitutional Treatment If the burn or scald is not extensive, and there is no prostration of strength, this is very simple, and consists in simply giving a little aperient medicine— pills (No. 2), as follows:—Mix 5 grains of blue pill and the same quan- tity of compound extract of colocynth, and make into two pills—the dose for XI full-grown person. Three hours after the pills give a black draught. If there are general symptoms of fever, such as hot skin, thirst, headache, &c. &c., two tablespoonfuls of fever-mixture are to be given every four hours. The fever-mixture, we remind our readers, is made thus :—Mix a drachm of l^owdered nitre, 2 drachms of carbonate of potash, 2 teaspoonfuls of antimo- nial wine, and a tablespoonful of sweet spirits of nitre, in half a pint of water. 2621. Second Class. Local Treatment.—As the symptoms of these kinds of burns are more severe than those of the first class, so the remedies appropriate to them are more powerful. Having, as carefully as possible, removed the clothes from the burnt surface, and taking care not to break the bladders, spread the following liniment (No. 1) on a piece of linen or lint—not the fliiffy side—and apply it to the part: the liniment should be equal parts of lime- water and linseed-oil, well mixed. If the burn is on the trunk of the body, it is better to use a warm linseed-meal poultice. After a few days dress the wound with Turner's cerate. If the burn is at the bend of the elbow, place the arm in the straight position ; for if it is lent, the skin, when healed, will be contracted, and the arm, in all probability, always remain in the same un. natural position. This, indeed, applies to all parts of the body; therefore, tilways place the part affected in the most stretched position possible. — "Constitutional Treatment. The same kind of treatment is to be used as for the first class, only it must be more powerful. Stimulants are more often necessary, but must be given with great caution. If, as is often the case, there is great irritability and restlessness, a dose of opium (paregoric, in doses of from sixty to a hundred drops, according to age, is best) is of great service. The feverish symptoms will require aperient medicines and the fever-mixture. A drink made of about a tablespoonful of cream of tartar and a little lemon- juice, in a quart of warm water, allowed to cool, is a very nice one in these cases. The diet throughout should not be too low, especially if there is much discharge from the wound. After a few days it is often necessar»y to give wine, ammonia, and strong beef-tea. These should be had recourse to when the tongue gets dry and dark, and the pulse weak and frequent. If there should be, after the lapse of a week or two, pain over one particular part of the belly, a blister should be put on it, and a powder of mercury and chalk- grey powder, and Dover's powder (two grains of the former and five of the latter) given three times a day. Affections of the head and chest also frequently occur as a consequence of these kinds of burns, but no one who is not a medical man can treat them. 2622. Third Class.—These are so severe as to make it impossible for a non- professional person to be of much service in attending to them. When they