197 SAUCES, ETC. Time.—20 minutes to boil the egg-s. Average cost, for tliis quantity, 8J. Sufficient^ 2 dozen balls for 1 tureen of soup. EGG SAUCS FOB SALT FISH. 409. Ingredients.—4 eggs, \ pint of melted butter, jN"o. 376 ; when liked, a very little lemon-juice. Mode.—Boil the eggs until quite hard, which will be in about 20 minutes, and put them into cold water for f hour. Strip off the shells, chop the eggs into small pieces, not, however, too line. Make the melted butter very smoothly, by recipe No. 376, and, when boiling, stir in the eggs, and serve very hot. Lemon-juice may be added at pleasure. Ti7ne.—20 minutes to boil the eggs. Average cost, Sd, Sufficient.—This quantity for 3 or 4 lbs. of fish. Note.—When a thicker sauce is required, use one or two more eggs to the same quantity of melted butter. EPICUBEAIT SAUCE FOB STEAKS, CHOPS, GBAVIES, OB FISH. 410. Ingeedients.—J pint of walnut ketchup, \ pint of mushroom ditto, 2 tablespoonfuls of Indian soy, 2 tablespoonfuls of port wine; J oz. of white pepper, 2 oz. of shalots, J oz. of cayenne, \ oz. of cloves, f pint of vinegar. Mode.—Put the whole of the ingredients into a bottle, and let it remain for a fortnight in a Y/arm place, occasionally shaking up the contents. Strain, and bottle off for use. This sauce will be found an agreeable addition to gravies, hashes, stews, &c. Average cost^ for this quantity. Is. 6d. Shalot, or Eschalot.—Tliis plant is supposed to have been introduced to England by the Crusaders, who found it growing wild in the vicinity of Ascalon. It is a bulbous root, and when full groAvn, its leaves wither in July. They ought to be taken up in the autumn, and. when dried in the house, will keep till spring. It is called by old authors the " barren onion," and is used in sauces and pickles, soups and made dishes, and as an accompaniment to chops and steaks. ESPAGHOLE^ or BBOWN SPAKTSH SAUCE. 411. Iis'GiiEDiENTS.—2 sliccs of lean ham, 1 lb. of veal, H pint of v/hite stock, No. 107; 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley, | a bay-leaf, 2 or 3 sprigs of savoury herbs, 6 green onions, 3 shalots, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, thickening of butter and flour.