HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1083 citron ointment 1 drachm; sulphur and tar ointment, of eacli | oz.: mix thoroughly, and apply twice a day. No. 2.—Take of simple cerate 1 oz. ; creosote 1 drachm ; calomel 30 grains : mix and use in the same manner as the first. Concurrent with these external remedies, the child should take an alterative powder every morning, or, if they act too much on the bowels, only every second day. The following will be found to answer all the intentions desired, 2668. Alterative Pomlersfor Ringworm.—Take of Sulphuret of antimony, precipitated , 24 grains* Grey powder 12 grains. Calomel •••••• 6 grains. Jalap powder 36 grains. Mix carefully, and divide into 12 powders for a child from 1 to 2 years old ; into 9 powders for a child from 2 to 4 years ; and into 6 powders for a child from 4 to 6 years. Where the patient is older, the strength may be increased by enlarging the quantities of the drugs ordered, or by giving one and a half or two powders for one dose. The ointment is to be well washed off every morning wuth soap-and-water, and the part bathed with the lotion before re-applying the ointment. An imperative fact must be remembered by mother or nurse,—^never to use the same comb employed for the child with ringworm, for the healthy children, or let the affected little one sleep with those free from the disease; and, for fear of any contact by hands or other- wise, to keep the child's head enveloped in a nightcap, till the eruption 13 completely cured. 2669. Scratches.—Trifling as scratches often seem, they ought never to be neglected, but should be covered and protected, and kept clean and dry until they have completely healed. If there is the least appearance of inflamma- tion, no time should be lost in applying a large bread-and-water poultice, or hot flannels repeatedly ajDplied, or even leeches in good numbers may be put on at some distance from each other. 2670. For Shortness of Breath, or Difficult Breathing.—Vitriolated spirits of ether 1 oz., camphor 12 grains: make a solution, of which take a tcaspoonful during the paroxysm. This is found to afford instantaneous relief in difficulty of breathing, depending on internal diseases and other causes, where the patient, from a very quick and laborious breathing, is obliged to bo in an erect posture. 2671. Sprains.—A sprain is a stretching of the leaders or ligaments of a part through some violence, such as slipping, falling on the hands, pulling a limb, &c. &c. The most common are those of the ankle and wrist. The.so accidents are more serious than people generally suppose, and often more difficult to cure than a broken leg or arm. The first thing to be done is to