509 GAME. finds in it something divine. Horace exalts it as a preparative exercise for the path of glory, and several of the heroes of Homer are its ardent votaries. The Romans foUov/ed the limiting customs of the Greeks, and the ancient Britons were hunters before Julius Cicsar invaded their shores. 1011. Although THE Ancient Britons followed Hunting, however, they did not confine themselves solely to its pursuit. They bred cattle and tilled the ground, and, to some extent, indicated the rudimentary state of a pastoral and agricultural life; but, in every social change, the sports of the field maintained their place. After the expulsion of the Danes, and during the brief restoration of the Saxon monarchy, these were still followed : even Edvirardtlie Confessor, who would join in no other "secular amusements, took the greatest delight, says William of Malmesbury, " to follow a pack of swift Hounds in pursuit of game, and to cheer them with his voice." 1012. Nor was Edward the only English sovereign who delighted in tho pleasures of the chase. William the Norman, and his two sons who succeeded him, were passionately fond of the sport, and greatly circumscribed the liberties of their subjects in reference to the killing of game. The privilege of hunting in the royal forests was confined to the king and his favourites ; and in order that these umbrageous retreats might be made more extensive, whole villages were depopulated, places of worship levelled with the ground, and every means adopted that might give a sufficient amplitude of space, in accordance with the royal pleasure, for the beasts of the chase. King John was likewise especially attached to the sports of the field ; whilst Edward III. was so enamoured of the exercise, that even during his absence at the wars in France, he took with him sixty couples of stag-hounds and as many hare-hovmds, and every day amused himself either with hunting or hawking. Great in wisdom as the Scotch Solomon, James I., conceited himself to be, he was much addicted to the amusements of hunting, hawking, and shooting. Yea, it is -even asserted that his precious time vras divided between hunting, the bottle, and his standish : to the first he gave his fair weather, to the second his dull, and to the third his cloudy. From his days down to the present, the sports of the field have continued to hold their high reputation, not only for the promotion of health, but for helping to form that manliness of character which enters so largely into the composition of the sons of the British soil. That it largely helps to do this there can be no doubt. The late duke of Grafton, when hunting, was, on one occasion, thrown into a ditch. A young curate, engaged in the same chase, cried out, ^'Lie still, my lord !" leapt over Mm, and pursued his sport. Such an apparent want of feeling might be -expected to have been resented by the duke ; but not so. On his being helped up by his attendant, he said, That man shall have the first good living that falls to my disposal: had he stopped to have given me his sympathy, I never v^^ould have given him anything." Such v/as the manly sentiment of tlie duke, who delighted in the exemplification of a spirit similarly ardent as his own in the sport, and above the baseness of an assumed sorrow.