651 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERT, ALMOND CAKE. 1752. Ii^anEDiENTS.—i lb, of sweet almonds, 1 oz. of bitter almonds, 6 eggs, 8 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 5 tablespoonfiils of fine flour, the grated rind of 1 lemon, 3 oz. of butter. iHfoc?^.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a paste ; separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs; beat the latter, and add them to the almonds. Stir in the sugar, flour, and lemon-rind; add the hutter, which should be beaten to a cream; and when all these ingredients are well mixed, put in the whites of the eggs, which should be whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a cake-mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a good oven from 1 j to If hour. Ti7ne.—1| to If hour. Average cost, Is, /Seasonable at any time. BICH BRIDE Oil CHmSTENING CAKE. 1753. IiTGEEDiEiTTS.—5 Ibs. of the finest flour, 3 lbs. of fresh butter, 5 lbs. of currants, 2 lbs. of sifted loaf sugar, 2 nutmegs, | oz. of mace, half I oz. of cloyes, 16 eggs, 1 lb. of sweet almonds, i lb. of candied citron, i lb. each of candied orange and lemon peel, 1 gill of wine, 1 gill of brandy. Mode.—Let the flour be as fine as possible, and well dried and sifted; the currants washed, picked, and dried before the fire ; the sugar well pounded and sifted; the nutmegs grated, the spices pounded ; the eggs thoroughly whisked, whites and yolks separately; the almonds pounded with a litte orange-flower water, and the candied peel cut in neat slices. When all these ingredients are prepared, mix them in the following manner. Begin working the butter with the hand till it becomes of a cream-like consistency; stir in the sugar, and when the whites of the eggs are whisked to a solid froth, mix them with the butter and sugar; next, well beat up the yolks for 10 minutes, and, adding them to the flour, nutmegs, mace, and cloves, continue beating the whole together for | hour or longer, till wanted for the oven. Then mix in lightly the currants, almonds, and candied peel with the wine and brandy; and having lined a hoop with buttered paper, fill it with the mixture, and bake the cake in a tolerably quick oven, taking care, however, not to burn it: to prevent this, the top of it may be covered with a sheet of paper. To ascertain v/hether the cake is done, plunge a clean knife into the middle of it, withdraw it directly, and if the blade is not sticky, and looks bright, the cake is sufficiently baked. These cakes are usually spread with a thick layer of almond icing, and over that another layer of sugar icing, and afterwards