POULTRY. 465 MIISrCBD FOWL A. LA BECHAMEL. 950- IngeedieisTS.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 6 tablespoon- fills of Bechamel sauce No. 367, 6 tablespoonfuls of white stock No. 107, the white of 1 eg-g", bread crumbs, clarified butter. Mode.—Take the remains of roast fowls, mince the white meat very small, and put it into a stewpan with the Bechamel and stock ; stir it well over the fire, and just let it boil up. Pour the mince into a dish, beat up the white of egg-, spread it over, and strew on it a few grated bread crumbs; pour a very little clarified butter on the whole, and brown either before the fire or with a salamander. This should bo served in a silver dish, if at hand. Time.—2 or 3 minutes to simmer in the sauce. Seasonahle at any time. The _ BEST Yf ay to Fatteit Fowls.—The barn-door fowl is in itself a completo refutation of the cramming and dungeon policy of feeding practised by some. This fowl, which has the common run of the farm-yard, living on dairy-scraps and olfal from the stable, begins to grow fat at threshing-time. He has his fill of the finest corn; he has his fill of fresh air and natural exercise, and at last he comes smoking to the table,— a dish for the gods. In the matter of unnaturally stuffing and confining fowds, Mowbray is exactly of our opinion. He says : " The London chicken-butchers, as they are termed, are said to be, of all others, the most expeditious and dexterous feeders, putting up a coop of fowls, and making them thorougldy fat within the si^ace of a fortnight, using much grease, and that perhaps not of the most delicate kind, in the food. In this way I have no boasts to make, having always found it necessa.ry to allow a considerable number of weeks for the purpose of making fowds fat in coops. In the common way this business is often badly managed, fowls being huddled together in a smaR coop, tearing each other to pieces, instead of enjoying that repose w^hich alone can insure the wished-for object—irregularly fed and cleaned, imtil they become so stenched and poisoned in their own excrement, that their flesh actually smells and tastes when smoking upon the table," Sussex produces the fattest and largest poultry of any county^ in England, and the fatting x^rocess there most common is to give them a gruel made of pot-liquor and bruised oats, with which are mixed hog's grease, sugar, and milk. The foAvls are kept very warm, and crammed morning and night. They are put into the coop, and kept there two or three days before the cramming begius, and then it is con- tinued for a fortnight, and the birds are sent to market, RAGOUT OF FOWL. 051. Inghedients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, 3 shalots, 2 blades of mace, a fag-got of savoury herbs, 2 or three slices of lean ham, 1 pint of stock or water, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, Jteaspoonful of pounded sugar, 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Cut the fowls up into neat pieces, the same as for a fricassee ; put the trimmings into a stewpan Vv^ith the shalots, mace, herbs, ham, onion, and stock (water may be substituted for this). Boil it slowly for 1 hour, strain the liquor, and put a small piece of butter into a stewpan; when melted, dredge in sufiicient flour to dry up the butter, and stir it over the fire. Put in the strained liquor, boil for a few minutes, and strain it again over the pieces of fowl. Squeeze 2h