2 I 2 POULTRY. 433 it in any way that may be preferred. Clean three of the feet, and place them in a hole made in the crust at the top : this shows what kind of pie it is. Glaze the crust,—that is to say, brush it over with the yolk of an egg*,—and bake it in a well-heated oven for about hour. When liked, a seasoning of pounded mace may be added. Time.—ll hour, or rather less. Average cost, 5s. 3d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. TuMBLEB PiGEOifS.—The smaller the size of this variety, the greater its value. The head should be round aud smooth, the neck thin, and the tail similar to that of theturbit. Highly-bred birds of this variety will attain an elevation in their flight beyond that of any other pigeons; aud it is in seeing these littla birds wing themselves so far into the sides that the fanciers take such delight. For four or five hours tumblers have been known to keep on the wing; and it is when they are almost lost to the power of human vision that they exhibit those pantomimic feats which give them their name, and which are marked by a tumbling over-and- over process, which suggests the idea of their having suddenly become giddy, been deprived of their self-conti'ol, or overtaken by some calamity. This acrobatic propensity in these pigeons has been ascribed by some to the absence of a proper power in the tail; but it is nothing more than a natural habit, for which uo adequate reason can be assigned. Of this variety, the Almond Tumbler is the most beautiful; and the greater the variation of the colour in the flight and tail, the greater their value. The Euitt Pigeoit.—This is generally esteemed amon* the la'^gest of the pigeon varieties, and being possessed of proportionate strength, with a strong propensity to exercise it, they keep the dovecot in a state of almost continual commotion by domineering over the weaker inmates. They breed tolerably well, however, and are valuable for the table. There is both the Leghorn and the Spanish Eunt, variously plumaged; but when red, white, or black mottled, are most highly esteemed. One of the great advantages connected with the Eunt is, that he is not likely to fly away from home. Being heavy birds, they find it diffi- cult, when well fed, to mount even to a low housetop. Again, they require no loft, or spe» cial dwelKng-place, but, if properly tended, wiU be perfectly satisfied, and thrive as well, in a rabbit-hutch as anywhere. Their flavour is very good; and it is not an uncommon thing for a squeaker Eunt to exceed a pound and a eunt pigeons. quarter in weight. The N"tjn Pigeoit.—The Tumbler bears a strong resemblance to this variety, which is characterized by a tuft of feathers rising from the back of the head, and which, on the whole, is an extremely pretty little bird. Ac- cording to the colour of the head, it is called the red, black, or yellow-headed Kun. To be a perfect bird, it should have a small head and beak; and the larger the tuft at the back of his head, the handsomer the bird is esteemed, and proportianatcly valuable in the eyes of pigeon- fanciers. If UN FIGEO>:S, TUMBLEE PIGEONS.