531 GAME. under the wing, having previously skinned that and the neck. Twist the legs at the first joint, press the feet upon the thighs, and pass a skewer through tliese and the body. Place four on a skewer, tie them on to the jack or spit, and roast before a clear fire for about i hour. Put some pieces of buttered toast into the dripping-pan to catch the trails; flour and froth the birds nicely, dish the pieces of toast with the snipes on them, and pour round, but not over them, a little good brown gravy. They should be sent to table very hot and expeditiously, or they will nbt be worth eating.—See coloured plate Ml. Time.—About \ hour. Average cost, Is. Q>d, to 25. the brace. Sufficient,—4 for a dish. Seasonable from November to February. Note.—Ortolans are trussed and dressed in the same manner. The Si^ips.—This is a migratory bird, and is generally distributed over Europe. It is found in most parts of England, in the high as well as the low lands, depending much on the weather. In very wet seasons it resorts to the hills, but at other times frequents marshes, where it can penetrate the earth with its bill, hunting for worms, which form its principal food. In the Hebrides and the Orkneys snipes are plentiful, and they are fattest in frosty weather. In the breeding season the snipe changes its note entirely from that which it iias in the winter. The male will keep on wing for an hour together, mounting like a lark, and uttering a shrill piping noise; then, w^ith a bleating sound, not unlike that made by an old goat, it will descend with'great velocity, cspe- t^^' sjtipe. cially if the female \m ^MAvag in her nest, from which it will not wander far, HOAST TEAIi. 1048. IK V _,vuiENTS.-~Teal, butter, a little flour Mode.—Choose fat plump birds, after the frost has set in, as they are generally better flavoured ; truss them in the same manner as wild duck. No. 1022; roast them before a brisk fire, and keep them well basted. Serve with brown or orange gravy, water-cresses, and a cut lemon. The remains of teal make excellent hash. Time.—From 9 to 15 minutes. Average cost, \s. each; but seldom bought. Sufficient,—2 for a dish. Seasonable from October to February. HOAST HAUj>7CH OF VENISOK. 1049. Ingredients.—Yenison, coarse flour-and-water paste, a little flour. 2 M 2