424 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. avert the anger of the Lord, when Jerusalem was threatened by Nebuchadnezzar and his Babylonian host, the Jews had made a solemn vow to God, ratified by the ceremony of the calf, if He released them from their dreaded foe, to cancel the servitude of their Hebrew brethren. After investing the city for some time, and reducing the inhabi- tants to dreadful suffering and privation, the Babylonians, hearing that Pharaoh, whom the Jews had solicited for aid, was rapidly approaching with a powerful army, hastily raised the siege, and, removing to a distance, took up a position where they could inter- cept the Egyptians, and still cover the city. No sooner did the Jews behold the retreat of the enemy, than they believed all danger was past, and, with their usual turpitude, they repudiated their oath, and refused to liberate their oppressed countrymen. For this violation of their covenant with the Lord, they were given over to all the horrors of the sword, pestilence, and famine.—Jeremiah, xxxiv. 15—17. MIK-CHD VEAL AND MAOAROrTI. (A 2ordty side or corner dish.) 891. Ingredients.—f lb. of minced cold roast veal, 3 oz. of ham, 1 tablespoonful of gravy, pepper and salt to taste, I teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 5 lb. of bread crumbs, 4 lb. of macaroni, 1 or 2 eggs to bind, a small piece of butter. Ilode.—Cut some nice slices from a cold fillet of veal, trim off the brown outside, and mince the meat finely with the above proportion of ham : should the meat be very dry, add a spoonful of good gravy. Season highly with pepper and salt, add the grated nutmeg and bread crumbs, and mix these ingredients with 1 or 2 eggs well beaten, which should bind the mixture and make it like forcemeat. In the mean time, boil the macaroni in salt and water, and drain it; butter a mould, put some of the macaroni at the bottom and sides of it, in whatever form is liked; mix the remainder with the forcemeat, fill the mould up to the top, put a plate or small dish on it, and steam for J hour. Turn it out carefully, and serve with good gravy poured round, but not over, the meat. Time,—i hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, lOd. Seasoncible from March to October. Note.—To make a variety, boil some carrots and turnips separately in a little salt and water; when done, cut them into pieces about ^ inch in thick- ness ; butter an oval mouldy and place these in it, in white and red stripes alternately, at the bottom and sides. Proceed as in the foregoing recipe, and be very careful in turning it out of the mould. MOULDED MIKCED VEAL (Cold Meat Cookery). 892. Inghedients.—I lb. of cold roast veal, a small slice of bacon, J teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, | onion chopped fine, salt, pepper, and pounded mace to taste, a slice of toast soaked in milk, 1 egg. Mode.—Mince the meat very fine, after removing from it all skin and outside pieces, and chop the bacon; mix these well together, adding the lemon-peel, onion, seasoning, mace, and toast. "When all