123 FISH. Time.—| hour. Average cost, 3s. 6d.y with, fresh fish. Seasonable from November to March. Sufficient for 4 persons. TnE FEcrifiuTT op the Cod.—In our preceding remarks on the natural Iiistory of fishes, we have spoken of the amazing fruitfulness of this fish; but in this we see one more instance of the wise provision which ]N"ature has made for supplying the wants of man. So extensive has been the consumption of this fish, that it is surprising that it has not long ago become extinct; which would certainly have been the case, had it not been for its wonderful powers of reproduction. " So early as 1368," says Dr. Cloquet, **the inhabitants of Amsterdam had dispatched fishermen to the coast of Sweden ; and in the first quarter of 1792, from the ports of France only, 210 ves?els went out to the cod-fisheries. Every year, however, upwards of 10,000 vessels, of all nations, are em- ployed in this trade, and bring into the commercial world more than 40,000,000 of salted and dried cod. If we add to this immense number, the havoc made among the legions of cod by the larger scaly tribes of the great deep, and take into account the destruction to which the young are exposed by sea-fowls and other inhabitants of the seas, besides the myriads of their eggs destroyed by accident, it becomes a miracle to find that such mighty multitudes of them are still in existence, and ready to continue the exhaustless supply. Yet it ceases to excite our wonder when we remember that the female can every year give birth to more than 9,000,000 at a time." BAKED CARP. 242. Ingeedients.—1 carp, forcemeat, bread crumbs, 1 oz. butter, •| pint of stock No. 105, i pint of port wine, 6 anchovies, 2 onions sliced, 1 bay-leaf, a faggot of sweet herbs, fiour to thicken, the juice of 1 lemon; cayenne and salt to taste; | teaspoonful of powdered sugar. J/bJe.—Stuff the carp with a delicate forcemeat, after thoroughly cleansing it, and sew it up, to prevent the stuffing from falling out. Eub it over with an egg, and sprinkle it with bread crumbs, lay it in a deep earthen dish, and drop the butter, oiled, over the bread crumbs. Add the stock, onions, bay-leaf, herbs, wine, and anchovies, and bake for 1 hour. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, and dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up; put in the strained liquor from the carp, stir frequently, and when it has boiled, add the lemon-juice and seasoning. Serve the carp on a dish garnished with parsley and cut lemon, and the sauce in a boat. Time.—\\ hour. Average cost. Seldom bought. Seasonable from March to October. Sufficient for 1 or 2 persons. The Carp.—This species of fish inhabit the fresh waters, where they feed on worms, insects, aquatic plants, small fish, clay, or mould. Some of them are migratory. They have very small mouths and no teeth, and the gill membrane has three rays. The body is smooth, and generally whitish. The carp both grows and increases very fast, and is accounted the most valuable of all fish for the stocking of ponds. It has been pronounced the queen of river-fish, and was first introduced to this country about three hundred years ago. Of its sound, or air-bladder, a kind of glue is made, and a green paint of its