rUDBINCS AND TASTRY. 621 JibJe.—Blancli a,nd pound the almonds in a mortar to a smooth paste; melt the butter, dredge in the flour, and add the sugar and pounded almonds. Beat the mixture well, and put it into cups or very tiny jelly-pots, which should be well buttered, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes, or longer should the puffs be large. Turn them out on a dish, the bottom of the pnu upper- most, and serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, Qsd. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Seasonahle at any time. AUNT NSIiLY'S PUDDINa. ii224. INGREDIENTS.—Hb. of flour, | lb. of treacle, Jib. of suet, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, a few strips of candied lemon-peel, 3 tablespoonfals of cream, 2 eggs. Mode.—Chop the suet finely; mix with it the ilour, treacle, lonion- peel minced, and candied lemon-peel; add the cream, lemon-juice, and 2 well-beaten eggs; beat the pudding well, put it into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil from 3i to 4 hours. Time.—2>^ to 4 hours. Average cost, Is, 2d. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle at any time, but more suitable for a winter pudding. Theacle, oe Molasses.—Treacle is the tincrystallizable part of the saccharine juice drained ironi the Muscovado sugar, and is either naturally so or rendered uncry stallizable through some defect in the process of boiling. As it contains a large quantity of sweet or saccharine principle and is cheap, it is of great use as an article of domestic economy. Children are especially fond of it; and it is accounted ^Yholesolne. It is also nseriil for malcing beer, rum, and the very dark syrups. BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS (a Plain Family Disli). i^J25. Ikgiiedients.~6 apples, % lb. of suet-crust No. 1215, sugar to taste. Mode.—Pare and take out the cores of the apples without dividing them, and make j lb. of suet-crust by recipe Ko. 1215; roll the apples in the crust, previously sweetening them with moist sugar, and taking care to join the paste nicely. When they are formed into round balls, put them on a tin, and bake them for about i hour, or longer should the apples be very large ; arrange them pyramidically on a dish, and sift over them some pounded white sugar. These may be made richer by using one of the puff-pastes instead of suet. Time.—Fiom 4 to | hour, or longer. Average cost, lid. each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonahle from August to March, but flavourless after the end of January