BEEF. their liquor, mushrooms, minced onions, kc. For family pies, suet may bo used instead of butter or lard for the crust, and clariiied beef-dripping answers very well where economy is an object. Pieces of underdone roast or boiled meat may in pies be used very advantageously ; but always remove the bone from pie-meat, unless it be chicken or game. We have directed that the meat shall be cut smaller than is usually the case; for on trial we have found it much more tender, more easily helped, and with more gravy, than when put into the dish in one or two large steaks. BEEF-STEAK AHD KIDNEY PUDDIlSra-. 605. Ingbediekts.—2 lbs. of rump-steak, 2 kidneys, seasoning to taste of salt and black pepper, suet crust made with milk {see Pastry), in the proportion of 6 oz. of suet to each 1 lb. of flour. ilib^/e.—Procure some tender rump steak (that which has been hung a little time), and divide it into pieces about an inch square, and cut each kidney into 8 pieces. Line the dish (of which we have given an engraving) with crust made with suet and flour in the above proportion, leaving a small piece of crust to overlap the edge. Then cover the bottom with a portion of the steak and a few pieces of kidney; season with salt and pepper (some add a little flour to thicken the gravy, but it is not necessary), and then add another layer of steak, kidney, and seasoning. Proceed in this manner till the dish is full, when pour in sufficient water to come within 2 inches of the top of the basin. Moisten the edges of the crust, cover the pudding over, press the two crusts together, that the gravy may not escape, and turn up the overhanging paste. -far • i. 1 • 1, i. i. J3 'J SUSSEX PUDDII^G-DISH. Wring out a cloth m hot water, flour it, and tie up the pudding; put it into boiling water, and let it boil for at least 4 hours. If the water diminishes, always replenish with some, hot in a jug, as the pudding should be kept covered all the time, and not allowed to stop boiling. "When the cloth is removed, cut out a round piece in the top of the crust, to prevent the pudding bursting, and send it to table in the basin, either in an ornamental dish, or with a napkin pinned round it. Serve quickly. Titne.—'For a pudding with 2 lbs. of steak and 2 kidneys allow 4 hours. Average costy 2s. Sd, Sufficient fov 6-persons. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. J^^'ote.—Beef-steak pudding may be very much enriched bv adding a few-