321 THE SHEEP. would take years in makiiig the why Orkney fat and profitable, while ono day's fatigue in climbing roc]^:s after a coarse and scanty herbage v/ould pro- bably cause the actual death of the pampered and short-winded Leicester. 68i. The moiie removed from the Nature of the animal is the food on which it lives, the more difficult is the process of assimilation, and the more complex the chain of digestive organs; for it must bo evident to all, that the same apparatus that converts/es/i mio jlcsh, is hardly calculated to transmute grass into flesh. As the process of digestion in carnivorous animals is ex- tremely simple, these organs are found to be remarkably short, seldom ex- ceeding the length of the animal's body ; while, whore digestion is more difficult, from the unassimilatiug nature of the aliment, as in the ruminant order, the alimentary canal, as is the case with the sheep, is twenUj-seveii times the length of the Jjody. The digestive organ in all ruminant animals consists of jour stomachs, or, rather, a capacious pouch, divided by doorways and valves into four compartments, called, in their order of position, the Paunch, the Reticulum, the Omasum, and the xibomasum. When the sheep nibbles the grass, and is ignorantly supposed to be eatlDg, he is, in fact, only preparing the raw material of his meal, in reality only mowing the pasture, which, as he collects, is swallowed instantly, passing into the first receptacle, the paicnch, where it is surrounded by a quantity of warm saliva, in which the herbage undergoes a process of maceration or softening, till the animal having filled this compartment, the contents pass through a valve into, the seconder smaller bag,—the rcticidum,v:heYG, having again filled the paunch with a reserve, the sheep lies down and commences that singular j^rocess .of chewing the cud, or, in ether v/ords, masticating the food he has collected.. By the operation of a certain set of muscles, a small quantity of this softened food from the reticidur.i, or second bag, is passed into the mouth, which it now becomes the pleasure of the sheep to grind under his molar teeth into a soft smooth pulp, the operation being further assisted by a flow of saliva, answering the double purpose of increasing the flavour of the aliment and promoting the solvency of the mass. Having completely comminuted and blended this mouthful, it is swallowed a second time ; but instead of returning to the paunch or reticulum, it passes through another valve into a side cavity,—the omas^im, where, after a maceration in more saliva for some hours, it glides by the same contrivance into the fourth pouch,—the ahomasum, an apartment in all respects analogous to the ordinary stomach of animals, and where the process of digestion, begun and carried on in the j^revious three, is here con- summated, and the nutrient principle, by means of the bile, eliminated from the digestied aliment. Such is the process of digestion in sheep and oxen. 682. No other Animal, even of the same order, possesses in so remarkable a degree the power of converting pasture into flesh as the Leicestershire sheep; the South Down and Cheviot, the two next breeds in quality, are, in consequence of the greater vivacity of the animal's nature, not equal to it in that respect, though in both the brain and chest are kept subservient to the Y