56 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEUT. the meat is equally browned, put in the beef and veal bones, the poultry trimmings, and pour in the cold water. Skim well, and occasionally add a little cold water, to stop its boiling, until it becomes quite clear ; then put in all the other ingredients, and sim- mer very slowly for 5 hours. Do not let it come to a brisk boil, that the stock be not wasted, and that its colour may be preserved. Strain through a very fine hair sieve, or tammy, and it will be fit for use. Time.—5 hours. Average cost^ Is, Zd. per quart. MEDIUM STOCK. 105. Ingeediejtts.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, or 2 lbs. of each; any bones, trimmings of poultry, or fresh meat, | a lb. of lean bacon or ham, 2 oz. of butter, 2 large onions, each stuck with 3 cloves ; 1 turnip, 3 carrots, | a leek, 1 head of celery, 2 oz. of salt, | a teaspoonful of whole pepper, 1 large blade of mace, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, 4 quarts and J pint of cold vv^ater. 3fode.—Cut up the meat and bacon or ham into pieces about 3 inches square ; rub the butter on the bottom of the stewpan ; put in § a pint of water, the meat, and all the other ingredients. Cover the stewpan, and place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents. When the bottom of the pan becomes covered with a pale, jelly-like substance, add 4 quarts of cold water, and simmer very gently for 5 hours. As we have said before, do not let it boil quickly. Skim off every particle of grease whilst it is doing, and strain it through a tine hair sieve. This is the basis of many of the soups afterwards mentioned, and will be found quite strong enough for ordinary purposes. Time.—5i hours. A verage cost, 9d. per quart. ECONOMICAL STOCK. 106. Ingredients.—The liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled, say 4 quarts; trimmings of fresh meat or poultry, shank- bones, &c., roast-beef bones, auy pieces the larder may furnish ; vege- tables, spices, and the same seasoning as in the foregoing recipe. Mode.—Let all the ingredients simmer gently for 6 hours, taking care to skim carefully at first. Strain it off, and put by for use. Time,—G hours. Average cost, dd. per quart. WHITE STOCK. (To le Used in the Preparation of V/hiie Sou])S.) 107. Tnghedients.—4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, any poultry trim- mings, 4 slices of lean ham, 1 carrot, 2 onions, 1 head of celery,