380 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, in water for at least 12 hours. Wipe it dry, trim away any rusty places underneatli, and cover it with a common crust, taking care that this is of sufficient thickness all over to keep the gravy in. Place it in a moderately-heated oven, and bake for nearly 4 hours. Take off the crust, and skin, and cover with raspings, the same as for boiled ham, and garnish the knuckle with a paper frill. This method of cooking a ham is, by many persons, considered far superior to boiling it, as it cuts fuller of gravy and has a finer flavour, besides keeping a much longer time good. Tiine.—A medium-sized ham., 4 hours. Average cost, from 8c?. to lOJ. per lb. by the whole ham. ^easonahle all the year. TO BOIL A HAM. 811. Ingeedients.—Ham, water, glaze or raspings. Mode—In choosing a ham, ascertain that it is perfectly sweet, by running a sharp knife into it, close to the bone ; and if, when the knife is withdrawn, it has an agreeable smell, the ham is good ; if, on the con- trary, the blade has a greasy appear- ance and offensive smell, the ham is bad. If it has been long hung, and is very dry and salt, let it remain in soak for 24 hours, changing the water fre- Ciuently. This length of time is only necessary in the case of its being very hard ; from 8 to 12 hours would be sufficient for a Yorkshire or Westmoreland ham. Wash it thoroughly clean, and trim away from the under-side, all the rusty and smoked parts, which would spoil the appearance. Put it into a boiling-pot, with sufficient cold water to cover it; bring it gradually to boil, and as the scum rises, carefully remove it. Keep it simmering very gently until tender, and be care- ful that it does not stop boiling, nor boil too quickly. When done, take it out of the pot, strip off the skin, and sprinkle over it a few fine bread-raspings, put a frill of cut paper round the knuckle, and serve. If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain in the water until nearly cold: by this method the juices are kept in, and it will be found infinitely superior to one taken out of the water hot; it should, however, be borne in mind that the ham must not remain in the saucepan all night. When the skin is removed, sprinkle over bread-raspings, or, if wanted particularly nice, glaze it. Place a paper frill round the knuckle, and garnish with parsley or cut vegetable flowers. {See Coloured Plate P.)