S05 BEEF. TO PICKLS PART OF A BOUND 03? BEEF FOB HANGING. 655. Ingredients.—For 14 lbs. of a round of beef allow 1^ lb. of salt, I oz. of powdered saltpetre ; or, 1 lb. of salt, i lb. of sugar, i oz. of powdered saltpetre. 3Iode.—Ji\ih in, and sprinkle either of the above mixtures on 14 lbs. of meat. Keep it in an earthenware pan, or a deep wooden tray, and turn twice a week during 3 weeks; then bind up the beef tightly with coarse linen tape, and hang it in a kitchen in which afire is constantly kept, for 3 weeks. Pork, hams, and bacon may be cured in a similar way, but will require double the quantity of the salting mixture; and, if not smoke-dried, they should be taken down from hanging after 3 or 4 weeks, and afterwards kept in boxes or tubs, amongst dry oat-husks. Time,—2 or 3 weeks to remain in the brine; to be hung 3 weeks. Seasoncihle at any time. Note.—Tho meat may bo boiled fresh from this pickle, instead of smok- ing it. ^ . BEEP BAGOUT (Cold Meat Cookery). 656. Ikgeedients.—About 2 lbs. of cold roast beef, C onions, pepper, salt, and mixed spices to taste; \ pint of boiling water, 3 lablespoonfuls of gravy. J/o<:7<?.—Cut the beef into rather large pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the onions, which must be sliced. Season well with pepper, salt, and mixed spices, and pour over about i pint of boiling water, and gravy in the above proportion (gravy saved from the meat answers the purpose); let the whole stew very gently for about ^ hours, and serve with pickled walnuts, gherkins, or capers, just ^^armed in the gravy. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 4.d, Seasonahle at any time. BOAST BIBS OF BEEP. 657. Ingredients.—Beef, a little salt. Irlode.—The fore-rib is considered the primest roasting piece, but the middle-rib is considered the most economical. Let the meat be well hung (should the weather permit), and cut off the thin ends of the bones, which should be salted for a few days, and then boiled. Put the meat down to a nice clear fire, put some clean dripping into the pan, dredge the joint with a little flour, and keep continu?.lly X