10!i5 THE KEAEING, MANAGEMENT, AND DISEASES OF INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD. CHAPTER XLII. Physiology of Life, as illustrated by Respiration, Ciroiilation, and Digestion. ^445. The infantine management of children, like the mother's love for her offspring, seems to be bora with the child, and to be a direct intelligence oi Nature. It may thus, at first sight, appear as inconsistent and presumptuous to tell a woman how to rear her infant as to instruct her in the manner of loving it. Yet, though Nature is unquestionably the best nurse. Art makes so admirable a foster-mother, that no sensible woman, in her novitiate of parent, would refuse the admonitions of art, or the teachings of experience, to con- summate her duties of nurse. It is true that, in a civilized state of society, few young wives reach the epoch that makes them mothers without some insight, traditional or practical, into the management of infants : consequent!}^, the cases wherein a woman is left to her own unaided intelligence, or what, in such a case, may be called instinct, and obliged to trust to the promptings of nature alone for the well-being of her child, are very rare indeed. Again, every woman is not gifted with the same physical ability for the harassing duties of a mother ; and though Nature, as a general rule, has endowed all female creation with the attributes necessary to that most beautiful and, at the same time, holiest function,—the healthy rearing of their offspring,—the cases are sufficiently numerous to establish the exception, where the mother is either physically or socially incapacitated from undertaking these most pleasing duties herself, and where, consequently, she is compelled to trust to adventitious aid for those natural benefits which are at onco the mother's pride and delight to render to her child. 2446. In these cases, when obliged to call in the services of hired assistance, she must trust the dearest obligation of her life to one who, from her social sphere, has probably notions of rearing children diametrically opposed to the preconceived ideas of the mother, and at enmity with all her sentiments of right and prejudices of position. 2447. It has justly been said—we think by Hood—that the children of tho poor are not brought up, but dragged up. However facetious this remark may seem, there is much truth in it; and that cMldren, reared m the reeking 3 u