C78 MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. little with two forks, that it may all be equally dried, and strew over a little salt. It is now ready to serve, and may be heaped lightly on a dish by itself, or be laid round the dish as a border, with a curry or fricassee in the centre. Some cooks smooth the rice with the back of a spoon, and then brush it over Y\dth the yolk of an egg, and set it in the oven to colour; but the rice well boiled, white, dry, and with every grain distinct, is by far the more preferable mode of dressing it. During the process of boiling, the rice should be attentively watched, that it be not overdone, as, if this is the case, it will have a mashed and soft appearance. Time.—15 to 25 minutes, according to the quality of the rice. Average cost^ 3d, Siffficient for a large dish of curry. Seasonable at any time. EiCE, in tlie native rough state, with the husk on, is caMed paddy, both in India and America, and it will keep better, and for a much longer time, in this state, than after the husk has been removed ; besides which, prepared rice is apt to become dirty from rubbing about in the voyage on board ship, and in the warehouses. It is sometimes brought to England in the shape of paddy, and the husk detached here. Paddy pays less duty than shelled rice. TO BOIL BIOS FOK CUBRIES, &c. (Soyer^s Recipe.) 1348. Ik'gsedients.—lib. of the best Carolina rice, 2 quarts ot water, li oz. of butter, a little salt. Mode.—Wsish the rice well in two waters ; make 2 quarts of water boiling, and throw the rice into it; boil it until three-parts done, then drain it on a sieve. Butter the bottom and sides of a stewpan, put in the rice, place the lid on tightly, and set it by the side of the fire until the rice is perfectly tender, occasionally shaking the pan to pre- vent its sticking. Prepared thus, every grain should be separate and white. Either dish it separately, or place it round the curry as a border. Twie.—15 to 25 minutes. Average cost, 7d. Sufficient for 2 moderate-sized curries. Seasonable at any time. BUTTEBED BICE. 3349. Ingeedients.—J lb. of rice, 1| pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, grated nutmeg or pounded cinnamon. 3Iode.—Wash and pick the rice, drain and put it into a saucepan with the milk ; let it swell gradually, and, when tender, pour off the milk ; stir in the butter, sugar, and nutmeg or cinnamon, and, when the butter is thoroughly melted, and the whole is quite hot, serve. After the milk is poured off, be particular that the rice does not burn: to prevent this, do not cease stirring it.