MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY 622 Uses op the Apple.—It is well known that this fruit formg a very important article of food, in tlie form of pies and puddings, and furnishes several delicacies, such as sauces, marmalades, and jellies, and is much esteemed as a dessert fruit. "When flat- tened in the form of round cakes, and baked in ovens, they are called beefings ; and large quantities are annually dried in the sun in America, as well as in Normandy, and stored for use during winter, when they may be stewed or made into pies. In a roasted state they are remarkably wholesome, and, it is said, strengthening to a weak stomach. In putrid and malignant fevers, when used with the juice of lemons and currants, they are considered highly efficacious. APPLE CHEESECAKES. 1226. Ingeedients.—4 lb. of apple pulp, J lb. of sifted sugar, J lb. of butter, 4 eggs, tbe rind and juice of 1 lemon. Mode,—Pare, core, and boil sufficient apples to make i lb. when cooked; add to these the sugar, the butter, which should be melted; the eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites, and the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon; stir the mixture well; line some patty- pans with puff-paste, put in the mixture, and bake about 20 minutes. Time—Khovii 20 minutes. Average costy for the above quantity, with the paste, Is. 2d. Sufficient for about 18 or 20 cheesecakes. Seasonable from August to March. ' The Apple.—The most useful of all the British fruits is ) the apple, which is a native of Britain, and may be found in | woods and hedges, in the form of the common wild crab, of which all our best apples are merely seminal varieties, pro- | duced by culture or particular circumstances. In most temperate climates it is very extensively cultivated, and in England, both as regards variety and quantity, it is excellent and abundant. Immense supplies are also imported from the United States and from France. The apples gro-\vn in the vicinity of IS'ew York are universally admitted to be the finest of any j but unless selected and jpacked with great \ APPLE AND BLOSSOM. care, they are apt to spoil before reaching England, ) BOILED APPLE DUMPLmGS. 1227. Ingredients.—6 apples, f lb. of suet-crust Ko. 1215, sugar to taste. j i5ibt?e.~Pare and take out the cores of the apples without dividing j them; sweeten, and roll each apple in a piece of crust, made by j recipe No, 1211; be particular that the paste is nicely joined; put the 3 dumplings into Houred cloths, tie them securely, and put them into j boiling water. Keep them boiling- from i to f hour; remove the i cloths, and send them hot and quickly to table. Dumplings boiled in | knitted cloths have a very pretty appearance when they come to table, j The cloths should be made square, just large enough to hold one dumpling, and should be knitted in plain knitting, with very coarse \ cotton. !