MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKSRY. 856 I\Iode.—In making many sweet dishes, the whites of e^gs are not required, and if well beaten and added to the above ingredients, make an excellent cake, with or without currants. Beat the butter to a cream, well whisk the whites of the eggs, and stir all the ingredients together but the soda, which must not be added until all is well mixed, and the cake is ready to be put into the oven. When the mixture has been well beaten, stir in the soda, put the cake into a buttered mould, and bake it in a mode- rate oven for 1^ hour. TiniG.—lk hour. Average cost, \s. Zd, A ]SriCB USEFUL CAKE. 1757. Ingredien-ts.—-? lb. of butter, 6 oz. of currants, i lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of dried flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 3 eggs, 1 teacup- ful of milk, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, 1 oz. of candied peel. Ilode.—Beat the butter to a cream; wash, pick, and dry the cur- rants ; whisk the eggs; blanch and chop the almonds, and cut the peel into neat slices. When all these are ready, mix the dry ingredients together; then add the butter, milk, and eggs, and beat the mixture well for a few minutes. Put the cake into a buttered mould or tin, and bake it for rather more than li- hour. The currants and candied peel may be omitted, and a little lemon or almond flavouring substi- tuted for them: made in this manner, the cake will be found very good. Thne,—Eather more than I-2- hour. Average eost^ Is. ^d. HONEY CAKE. 1758 iNGEEDiEiTTS.—i breakfast-cupful of sugar, 1 breakfast-cup- ful of rich sour cream, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, i teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, honey to taste. Mode.—Mix the sugar and cream together; dredge in the flour, with as much honey as will flavour the mixture nicely; stir it well, that all the ingredients may be thoroughly mixed ; add the carbonate of soda, and beat the cake well for another 5 minutes; put it into a buttered tin, bake it from ^ to % hour, and let it be eaten warm. Time.—^ to | hour. Average cost, Sd. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. BICH SWEETMEAT GINGERBBEAD NUTS. 1759. Ingredients.—1 lb. of treacle, i lb. of clarified butter, 1 lb. of coarse brown sugar, 2 oz. of ground ginger, 1 oz. of candied orange-