1010 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT, each gone over carefully with soap, and rubbed. Novices in the art sometimes rub the hnen against the skin ; more experienced washerwomen rub one linen surface against the other, which saves th^ir hands, and enables them to con- ' tinue their labour much, longer, besides economizing time, two parts being thus cleaned at once. 2378. After this first washing, the linen should be put into a second -water as hot as the hand can bear^ and again rubbed over in every part, examining every part for spots not yet moved, which require to be again soaped over and rubbed till thoroughly clean; then rinsed and wrung, the larger and stronger articles by two of the women; the smaller and more delicate articles requiring gentler treatment. 2379. In order to remove every particle of soap, and produce a goo4 colour, they should now bo placed, and boiled for about an hour and a half in the copper, in which soda, in the proportion of a teaspoonful to every two gallons 4)f water, has been dissolved. Some very careful laundresses put the linen into a canvas bag to i3rotect it from the scum and the sides of the copper.. When taken out, it should again be rinsed, first in clean hot water, and then in abuu- danco of cold water slightly; tinged with fig-blue, and again wrung dry. It should now be remoYed from the washing-house and hung up to dry or spread out to bleach, if there are conveniences for it; and the earlier in the-day this is done, the clearer and whiter-wdll be the linen. 2380. Colom-ed muslins, cottons; and linens, require a milder treatment; . any application of soda wall discharge the colour, and soaking all night, even in pure "vvater, deteriorates the more delicate tints. When ready for • washing, if not too dirty, they should be put into cold water and washed very speedily, using- the common yellow soap, w^hich should be rinsed off imme* diately. One article should be washed at a time, and rinsed out immediately before any others are wetted. When washed thoroughly, they should be rinsed in succession^ in soft water, in which common salt has been dissolved, in the proportion of a handful to three or four gallons, 'and afterwards wrung gently, as soon as rinsed, with as little twisting as possible, and then hung out to clr3^ Delicate-coloured articles should not be exposed to tho sun, but dried in the shade, using clean lines and wooden pegs. 2381. Woollen articles are liable to shrink, unless the flannel has been well shrunk before making up. This liability is increased where very hot water is used : cold water would thus be the best to wash woollens in ; but, as ithis would not remove the dirt, lukewarm water, about 85", and yellow soap, are recommended. When thoroughly washed in this, they requhe a good-deal of rinsing in cold water, to remove the soap. • .. 2382. Greasy cloths, which have soaked all night in the liquid described, should be now Avashed out with soap-and-water as hot as the hands can bear,