POULTRY. 451: 2 G 2 prevalent tlirouglioiit Europe, Asia, and America. Tlie mallard's most remarliable characteristic is one wliich sets at defiance tlie speculations of the most i^rofoundj ornithologist. The female bird is extremely plain, but the male's plumage is a splendour of greens and browns, and browns and blues. In the spring, however, the plumage of the male begins to fade, and in two months, every vestige of his finery has departed,, and he is not to be distinguished from his soberly-garbed wife. Then the greens, and the blues, and the browns begin to bud out again, and by October he is once more a gorgeous drake. It is to be regretted that domestication has seriously deteriorated the moral character of the duck. In a wild state, he is a faithful husband, desiring but one wife, and devoting himself to her; but no sooner is he domesticated than he becomes polygamous, and makes nothing of owning ten or a dozen wives at a time. As regards the females, they are much more solicitous for the welfare of their progeny in a wild, state than a tame. Should a tame duck's duckling get into mortal trouble, its mother will just signify her sorrow by an extra " quack," or so, and a flapping of her wings; but touch a wild duck's little one if you dare ! she will buffet you with her broad wings, and dash boldly at your face with her stout beak. If you search for her nest amongst the long grass, she will try no end of manoeuvres to lure you from it, her favourite ruse being to pretend lameness, to delude you into the notion that you have only to pursue her vigorously, and her capture is certain; so you persevere for half a mile or so, and then she is up and away, leaving you to find your way back to the nest if you can. Among the ancients, opinion was at variance respecting the wholesomeness and digestibility of goose flesh, but concerning the excellence of the duck all pa.rties were agreed; indeed, they not only assigned to duck-meat the palm for exquisite flavour and delicacy, they even attribtited to it medicinal powers of the highest order. ISTot only the Eoman medical, writers of the time make mention of it, but likewise the philosophers of the period,,. Plutarch assures us that Cato preserved his whole household in health, in a season when. plague and disease were rife, through dieting them on roast duck. STEWED DUCK AND PEAS (Cold Meat Cookery), 935. Iis^'GEEDiEKTS.—TliG remains of cold roast duck, 2 oz. of butter,, 3 or 4 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 2 pints of thin gravy, 1, or a small bunch of green onions, 3 sprigs of parsley,, 3 cloves, 1 pint of young green peas, cayenne and salt to taste, 1 tea- spoonful of pounded sugar. 3£ode.—Put the butter into a stewpan; cut up the duck into joints, lay them in with the slices of lean ham or bacon ; make it brown, then dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, and stir this well in before adding the gravy. Put in the onion, parsley, cloves, and gravy, and when it has simmered for J hour, add a pint of young green peas, and stew gently for about i hour. Season with cayenne, salt, and sugar; take out the duck, place it round the dish, and the peas in the middle. Ti?ne.—| hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold duck. Is. Seasonable from June to August. DucTis Hatching.—Concerning incubation by ducks, a practised writer says, ''The duck requires a secret and safe place, rather than any attendance, and will, at nature's call, cover her eggs and seek her food. On hatching, there is not often a necessity for taking away any of the brood; and, having hatched, let the mother retain her young ones upon the nest her own time. On her moving with her brood, let a coop be prepared upon the short grass, if the weather be fine, and under shelter, if otherwise." CoopiNa A-iTD FEEDiNa DucKLiKGS.—Brood ducks should be cooped at some dis- tance from any other. A wide and flat dish of water, to be often renewed, should stand just outside the coop, and barley, or any other meal, be the first food of the ducklings. It will be needful, if it be wet weather, to clip their tails, lest these draggle, and so weaken the bird. The period of the duck's confinement to the coop will depend on the weather, and on the strength of the ducklings. A fortnight is usually the extent of time necessary, and they may even be sometimes permitted to enjoy the luxury of a swim at ;.