MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. c-1 strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth; then boil the pulp with the soup, which should he of the consistency of pea-soup. Add cayenne, Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and make this soup the day before it is wanted. Time —a hours. Average cost per quart, l|c?. Seasonable horn Octohev to "M-diroh, ^ ^ Sufficient for 10 persons. n. lai. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of carrots, 3 oz. of butter, seasoning to taste of salt and cayenne, 2 quarts of stock or gravy soup. Mode.—Scrape and cut out all specks from the carrots, wash, and wipe them dry, and then reduce them into quarter-inch slices. Put the butter into a large stewpan, and when it is melted, add 2 lbs. of the sliced carrots, and let them stew gently for an hour without browning. Add to them the soup, and allow them to simmer till tender,—say for nearly an hour. Press them through a strainer with the soup, and add salt and cayenne if required. Boil the whole gently for 5 minutes, skim well, and serve as hot as possible. Time,—1\ hour. Average cost per quart. Is. \d. The Cabbot.—There is a wild carrot which grows in England; but it is white and email, and not much esteemed. The garden carrot in general use, was introduced in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and was, at first, so highly esteemed, that the ladies wore leaves of it in tneir head-dresses. It is of great value in the culinary art, especially for soups and stews. It can be used also for beer instead of malt, and, in distillation, it yields a large quantity of spirit. The carrot is proportion- ably valuable as it has more of the red than the yellow part. There is a large red variety much used "L ""'•'^■r farmers for colouring butter. As a garden ' ' vegetable, it is what is called the orange-carrot that •• —— ■ =^ is usually cultivated. As a fattening food for cattle, TAZZA AND CABBOT LEAVES. i* is excellent; but for man it is indigestible, on account of its fibrous matter. Of 1,000 parts, 95 consist of sugar, and 3 of starch.—The accompanying cut represents a pretty winter ornament, obtained by placing a cut from the top of the carrot-root in a shallow vessel of water, when the young leaves spring forth with a charming freshness and fullness. CELEBY SOUP. 122. In^geedients.—9 heads of celery, 1 teaspoonful of salt, nutmeg to taste, 1 lump of sugar, i pint of strong stock, a pint of cream, and 2 quarts of boiling water. Mode.—Gvii the celery into small pieces; throw it into the water, seasoned with the nutmeg, salt, and sugar. Boil it till sufficiently tender ; pass it through a sieve, add the stock, and simmer it for half an hour. Now put in the cream, bring it to the boiling point, and serve immediately. Time.—1 hour. Average costy Is. per quart.