62U MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERI. Mode.—Blanch and pound the ahnonds to a smooth paste with the water; mix these v/ith the butter, which should be melted ; beat up the eggs, grate the lemon-rind, and strain the juice; add these, with the cream, sugar, and wine, to the other ingredients?, and stir them well together. When well mixed, put it into a pie-dish lined with puff- paste, and bake for f hour. Time.—-3- hour. Average cost, 2s. Sd. Si(jfficlent for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—To make this pudding more economically, substitute milk for the cream ; but then add rather more than 1 oz. of finely-grated bread. Uses of the Sweet Almond.—The kernels of the sweet almond are used either in a green or ripe state, and as an article in the dessert. Into cookery, confectionery, per- lumery, and medicine, they largely enter, and in domestic economy, shonld always be , used in preference to bitter almonds. The reason for advising this, is because the t kernels do not contain any hydrocyanic or prussic acid, although it is found in the leaves, ,: flowers, and bark of the tree. When young and green, they are preserved in sugar, like k green apricots. They furnish the almond-oil; and the farinaceous matter which is left :' after the oil is expressed, forms the pate d'amancles of pei'fumers. In the arts, the oil i is employed for the same purposes as the olive-oil, and forms the basis of kalydor, ? macassar oil, Gowland's lotion, and many other articles of that kind vended by per- • fumers. In medicine, it is considered a nutritive, laxative, and an emollient. ! SMALL ALMOHD PUDDINGS. 1222. In"geedients.—i lb. of sweet almonds, 6 bitter ones, J lb. of 3 butter, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of I cream, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. 3fode.—Blanch and pound the almonds to a smooth paste with a : spoonfal of water; warm the butter, mix the almonds with this, and j add the other ingredients, leaving out the \ whites of 2 eggs, and be particular that these • are well beaten. Mix well, butter some cups, ;j ALMoiTD PUDDINGS. half fill them, and bake the puddings from ' 20 minutes to i hour. Turn them out on a dish, and serve with sweet f sauce. 2Yme.—20 minutes to i hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Husks op AuiiroKDS.—In the environs of Alicante, the husks of almonds are ground to a powder, and enter into the composition of common soap, the large quantity t of alkaline princix)ie they contain rendering them suitable for this purpose. It is said that in some parts of the south of France, where they are extensively grown, horses and mules are fed on the green and dry husks ; but, to prevent any evil consequences arising i| from this practice, they are mixed with chopped straw or oats. \ ALMOJKTD PUFFS. 3223. Ingmiedienxs.—2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2oz. of pounded sugar, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, 4 bitter alm^onds.