692 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. When of a nice colour, without being scorched, withdraw it from the oven, instantly remove the cover where it was marked, and detach all the soft crumb from the centre: in doing this, be careful not to break the edges of the vol-au-venf; but should they look thin in places, stop them with small flakes of the inside paste, stuck on with the white of an egg. This precaution is necessary to prevent the fricassee or ragout from bursting the case, and so spoiling the appearance of the dish. Fill the vol-au-vent with a rich mince, or fricassee, or ragout, or the remains of cold fish flaked and warmed in a good white sauce, and do not make them very liquid, for fear of the gravy bursting the crust: replace the lid, and serve. To improve the appearance of the crust, brush it over with the yolk of an egg after it has risen properl}^. —See coloured plate 01. Time.—f hour to bake the vol-au-vent. Average cost, exclusive of interior. Is. Qd, Seasonable at any time. I\^ote.—Small vol-au-vents may be made like those shown in the engraving, and filled with minced veal, chicken, &c. They should be made of the same paste as the larger ones, and stamped SMALL VOL-AU-YE^'^TS. ^ , out with a small fluted cutter. SWEET VOIi-AU-VETsTT OF PLUMS, APPLES, OR ANY OTHEB FKESH FBUIT. 1380. INGREDIENTS.—I lb. of pufl'-pasto No. 1208, about 1 pint of fruit compote. 3fode.—Moke J lb. of pufl-paste by recipe No. ] 208, taking care to bake it in a good brisk oven, to draw it up nicely and make it look light. Have ready sufficient stewed fruit, the syrup of which must be boiled down until very thick; fill the vol-au-vent with this, and pile it high in the centre; powder a little sugar over it, and put it back in the oven to glaze, or use a salamander for the purpose: the vol-au-vent is then ready to serve. They may be made with any fruit that is in season, such as rhubarb, oranges, gooseberries, currants, cherries, apples, &c.; but care must be taken not to have the syrup too thin, for fear of its breaking through the crust. Time.^^ hour to 40 minutes to bake the vol-au-vent, ^ Average cost, exclusive of the compote. Is. Id. Sufficient for 1 entremets. VOL-AU-VE]SrT OP FRESH STRAWBERRIES WITH WHIPPED CREAM. i3Bi. Ingeedients.—f lb. of puff-paste No. 1208, 1 pint of freshly- gathered strawberries^ sugar to taste, a plateful of whipped cream