345 MUTTON. The descriptive ^oets give us some cliarining pictures of sheep. Every one ia familiar with the sheep-shearing scene in Thomson's " Seasons — ** Heavy and dripping, to the breezy brow Slow move the harmless race; where, as they spread Their swelling treasures to the sunny ray, Inly disturb'd, and wond'ring what this wild ^ Outrageous tumult means, their loud complaints The country fill; and, toss'd from rock to rock. Incessant bleatings run around the hiUs." What an exquisite idea of stillness is conveyed in the oft-quoted line from Gray's "Elegy:"— ** And drowsy tinklings lull the distant fold." From Dyer's quaint poem of " The Fleece " we could cull a hundred passages relating to sheep; but we have already exceeded our space. We cannot, however, close this brief notice of the allusions that have been made to sheep by our poets, without quoting a couple of verses from Kobert Burns's " Elegy on Poor Mailie/' his only ** petyo^^;e;"— '* Thro' a' the town she troll'd by him; A lang half-mile she could descry him; Wi' kindly bleat, when she did spy him, She ran wi' speed; A friend mair faithfu' ne'er cam' nigh him Than Mailie dead. ** I wat she was a sheep o' sense. An' could behave hersel' wi' mensej ril say't, she never brak a fence. Thro' thievish greed. Our bardie, lanely, keeps the spence. Sin' Mailie's dead." MUTT03Sr COI1X.OPS (Cold Meat Cookery). 731. Ingeedients.—A few slices of a cold leg or loin of mutton, salt and pepper to taste, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 small buncli of savoury herbs minced very fine, 2 or 3 sbalots, 2 or 3 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, | pint of gravy, 1 tablespoonful of lemon- juice. 3Iode,—Cut some very tliin slices from a leg or the chump end of a loin of mutton; sprinkle them with pepper, salt, pounded mace, minced savoury herbs, and minced shalot; fry them in butter, stir in a dessert- spoonful of fiour, add the gravy and lemon-juice, simmer very gently about 5 or 7 minutes, and serve immediately. Time.—5 to 7 minutes. Average costy exclusive of the meat, 6d, Seasonable at any time. MUTTOIsT CUTLETS WITH MASHED POTATOES. 732. IiTGEEDiENTS.—About 3 Ibs. of the best end of the neck of mutton, salt and pepper to taste, mashed potatoes. IIode.—TiocmQ a well-hung neck of mutton, saw off about 3 inches of the top of the bones, and cut the cutlets of a moderate thickness. Shape them by chopping off the thick part of the chine-bone; beat