196 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. when add it to the sauce. A moment before serving-, put in the lemon- juice, but not before ; for otherwise the sauce would turn yellow, and its appearance be thus spoiled. Average cost, id. Bechamel Sauce.—This sauce takes its name from a Monsieur Bechamel, a rich French financier, who, according to some authorities, invented it; whilst others affirm he only patronized it. Be this as it may, it is one of the most pleasant sauces Avhich come to table, and should be most carefully and intelligently prepared. It is frequently used, as in the above recipe, as a principal ingredient and basis for other sauces. TO PICKLE EGGS. 407. Ingeedients.—16 egg's, 1 quart of vinegar, i oz. of Dlack pepper, | oz. of Jamaica pepper, | oz. of ginger. Mode.—Boil the eggs for 12 minutes, then dip them into cold water, and take off the shells. Put the vinegar, with the pepper and ginger, into a stewpan, and let it simmer for 10 minutes. Now place the eggs in a jar, pour over them the vinegar, &c., boiling hot, and, when cold, .tie them down with bladder to exclude the air. This pickle will be ready for use in a month. Average cost, for this quantity. Is. 9cf. Seasonable.—This should be made about Easter, as at this time eggs are plentiful and cheap. A store of pickled eggs will be found very useful and ornamental in serving with many first and second course dishes. Ginger.—The ginger-plant, known to naturalists as Zingiber officinale, is a native of the East and West Indies. It grows somevr^hat like the lily of the valley, but its height is about three feet. In Jamaica it flowers about August or September, fading about the end of the year. The fleshy creeping roots, which form the ginger of commerce, are in a proper state to be dug when the stalks are entirely withered. This operation is usually ''i'Xi^k^^ performed in January and February; and when the roots are *' taken out of the earth, each one is picked, scraped, separately G-lNGEE. washed, and afterwards very carefully dried. G-inger is gene- rally considered as less pungent and heating to the system than might be expected from its eflects on the organs of taste, and it is frequently used, with considerable efleet, as an anti-spasmodic and carminative. EGG BALLS FOB SOUPS AND MADE DISHES. 408. Ingkedients.—8 eggs, a little flour; seasoning to taste of salt. Mode,—Boil 6 eggs for 20 minutes, strip off the shells, take the yolks and pound them in a mortar. Beat the yolks of the other 2 eggs ; add them, with a little flour and salt, to those pounded ; mix all well together, and roll into balls. Boil them before they are put into the soup or other dish they may be intended for.