449 POULTHY. about 20 minutes, and let it acquire a nice brown colour. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient well-seasoned beef gravy to cover it; slice and fry the onions, and add these, with the sage-leaves and lemon thyme, both of which should be finely minced, to the stock. Simmer gently until the duck is tender; strain, skim, and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour; boil it up, pour over the duck, and serve. When in season, about 14 pint of young green peas, boiled separately, and put in the ragout, very much improve this dish. Time—20 minutes to roast the duck ; 20 minutes to stew it. Average cost^ from 2s. ^cl. to 2s. 6d. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from November to February ; ducklings from April to August. The Buenos Atres i)vcx.—The Baenos Ayres diicliis of East-Iadian birth, and is chiefly valuable as an ornament; for we siip- pose one would as soon think of picking a Chinese teal for luncheon, or a gold fish for breakfast, as to consign the handsome Buenos Ayres to the spit. The prevailing colour of this bird is black, with a metallic lustre, and a gleaming of blue steel about its breast and wings. Vaeieties of Ducks.—Naturalists comit nearly a hundred different species of ducks; and there is no doubt that the intending keeper of these harmless and profitable birds may easily take his choice from amongst twenty different sorts. There is, however, so little difference in the vai'ious members of the BUSITOS AYEES DUCK3. family, either as regards hardiness, laying, or hatching, that the most incompetent fancier or breeder may indulge his taste without danger of making a bad bargain. In connection with their value for table, light-coloured ducks are always of milder flavour than those that are dark-coloured, the white Ayles- bury's being general favourites. Ducks reared exclusively on vegetable diet will have a whiter and more dehcate flesh than those allowed to feed on animal ofial; while the flesh of birds fattened on the latter food, will be firmer than that of those vrhich have only partaken of food of a vegetable nature. BOAST DUCKS. 934. Ingeedients.—A couple of ducks; sagc-and-onion stuffing No. 504 ; a little flour. Choosing and Trussing.—Choose ducks with plump bellies, and with thick and yellowish feet. They should be trussed with the feet on, which should be scalded, and the skin peeled ofl', and then turned up close to the legs. Run a skewer through the middle of each leg, after having drawn them as close as possible to the body, to plump up the breast, passing the same quite through the body. Out ofl; the heads and necks, and the pinions at the first joint; bring these close to the sides, twist the feet round, and truss them at the back of the bird. After the duck is stufled, both ends should be secured with string, so as to keep in the seasoning. Mode.—'Lo insure ducks being tender, never dress them the same 2 G