BEARING, ETC., OF CHILDREN. 1059 Croup. 2568. This is by far the most formidable and fatal of all the diseases to which infancy and childhood arc liable, and is purely an inflammatory affection, attacking that portion of the mucous membrane lining the windpipe and bron- chial tubes, and from the effect of which a false or loose membrane is formed along the windpipe, resembling in appearance the finger of a glove suspended in the passage, and, consequently, terminating the life of the patient by suffo- cation ; for, as the lower end grows together and becomes closed, no air can enter the lungs, and the child dies choked. All dull, fat, and heavy children are peculiarly predisposed to this disease, and those with short necks and who make a wheezing noise in their natural breathing. Croup is always sudden in its attack, and rapid in its career, usually proving fatal within three days; most frequently commences in the night, and generally attacking children between the ages of three and ten years. Mothers should, therefore, be on their guard who have children predisposed to this disease, and immediately resort to the means hereafter ad\ised. 2569. Symptoms.—Languor and restlessness, hoarseness, wheezing, and short, dry cough, with occasional rattling in the throat during sleep, the child often plucking at its throat with its fingers ; difficulty of breathing, which quickly becomes hard and laboured, causing great anxiety of the countenance, and the veins of the neck to swell and become knotted; the voice in speaking acquii-es a sharp, crowing, or croupy sound, while the inspirations have a harsh, metallic intonation. After a few hom^s, a quantity of thick, ropy mucus is thrown out, hanging about the mouth, and cavreing suffocating fits of coughing to expel. 2570. Treatment.—Place the child immediately in a hot bath up to the throat; and, on removal from the water, give an emetic of the antimonial or ipecacu- anha wine, and, when the vomiting has subsided, lay a long blister down the front of the throat, and administer one of the following powders every twenty minutes to a child from three to six years of age. 2571. Take of calomel, 12 gTains; tartar emetic, 2 grains; lump sugar, 80 grains. Mix accurately, and divide into 12 powders. For a child from six to twelve years, divide into 6 powders, and give one every half-hom\ 2572. Should the symptoms remain unabated after a few hours, apply one or two leeches to the throat, and put mustard poultices to the feet and thighs, retaining them about eight minutes ; and, in extreme cases, a mustard poultice to the spine between the shoulders, and at the same time rub mercurial oint- ment into the armpits and the angles of the jaws. 2573. S^c^ is a vigorous and reliable system of treatment in severe cases of croup ; but, in the milder and more general form, the following abridgment 3 Y 2