151 FISH. THE SALMOJT. Kamschatka, but is never found in warm latitudes, nor has it ever been caught even so far south as the Mediterranean. It lives in fresh as well as in salt waters, depositing its spawn in the former, hundreds of miles from the mouths of some of those rivers to which it has been known to resort. In 1859, great efforts were made to introduce this fish into the AustraUan colonies; and it is believed that the attempt, after many difficulties, which were very skilfully overcome, has been successful. CRIMPED SALMON". 304. Salmon is frequently dressed in this way at many fashionable tables, but must bo very fresh, and cut into slices 2 or 3 inches thick. Lay these in cold salt and water for 1 hour ; have ready some boiling water, salted, as in recipe No. 301, and well skimmed ; put in the fish, and simmer gently for J hour, or rather more ; shonld it be very thick, garnish the same as boiled salmoji, and serve with the same sauces. Time—I hour, more or less, accord- ing to size. Note.—Never use vinegar with salmon, as it spoils the taste and coloiu- of the fish. The Salmq]^ Tribe.—This is the Abdominal fish, forming the fourth of the orders of Linnaeus. They are distinguished from other fishes by having two dorsal lins, of which the hindmost is fleshy and without rays. They have teeth both on the tongue and in the jaws, whilst the body is covered with round and minutely striated scales. CUBIIIED SALMOH. 305. Ikgkebients.—Any remains of boiled sahnon, | pint of strong or medium stock (No. 105), 1 onion, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 oz. of butter, the juice of | lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Cut "up the onions into small pieces, and fry them of a pale brown in the butter; add all the ingredients but the salmon, and simmer gently till the onion is tender, occasionally stirring the contents; cut the salmon into small square pieces, carefully take away ail skin and bone, lay it in the stewpan, and let it gradually heat through ; but do not allow it to boil long. Time—I hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold fish, 9d. Growtti op the Salmoi^.—At the latter end of the year—some as soon as ITovember— salmon begin to press up the rivers as far as they can reach, in order to deposit their spawn, which they do in the sand or gravel, about eighteen inches deep. Here it lies buried till the spring, when, about the latter end of March, it begins to exclude the young, which gradually increase to four or five inches in length, and are then termed smelts or'smouts. About the beginning of May, the river seems to be alive with them, and there is no forming an idea of their numbers without having seen them. A seasonable flood, however, comes, and hurries them to the " great deep whence, about the middle of June, they com- mence their return to the river again. By this time they are twelve or sixteen inches long, and progressively increase, both in number and size, till about the end of July, when