Fisn sours. 1013 roll, ancliovies, onions, herbs, lemon-peel, and the water; simmer gently till all the goodness is extracted, and strain it off. Pound the spawn in a mortar, with the butter, nutmeg, and flour, and mix with it the cream and milk. Give one boil up, at the same time adding the tails cut in pieces. Make the forcemeat balls with the remainder of the lobster, seasoned with mace, pepper, and salt, adding a little flour, and a few bread crumbs; moisten them with the egg, heat them in the soup, and serve. Time—2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, 3s. Qd, per quart. Seasonable from April to October. Sufficient for 8 persons. OYSTSS, SOUP. I. 196. Ikgredtents.—6 dozen of oysters, 2 quarts of white steck, •I pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, i| oz. of flour; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste. 3fode.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor ; take them out, beard them, and put them in a tureen. Take a pint of the stock, put in the beards and the liquor, which must be carefully strained, and simmer for J an hour. Take it off the fire, strain it again, and add the remainder of the stock with the seasoning and mace. Bring it to a boil, add the thickening of butter and flour, simmer for 5 minutes, stir in the boiling cream, pour it over the oysters, and serve. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, 2s. 8c/. per quart. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup can be made less rich by using milk instead of cream^ and thickening with arrowroot instead of butter and flour« II. 197. Ingeedients.—2 quarts of good mutton broth, 6 dozen oysters, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. of flour. 3fode.—Beard the oysters, and scald them in their own liquor ; then add it, well strained, to the broth; thicken with the butter and flour, and simmer for i of an hour. Put in the oysters, stir well, but do not let it boil, and serve very hot. Time.—f hour. ■ Average cost, 2s. per quart. Seasonable from September to April. Sufficient for 8 persons ^ SsASoir oi' Otsteks.—From April and May to the end of July, oysters are said to Ibe Bick; but by the end of August they become healthy, having recovered from the effects