203 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. they are flavoured, or else in a jar or jug placed in a saucepan full of boiling water. The remains of roast-meat gravy should always be saved; as, when no meat is at hand, a very nice gravy in haste may be made from it, and when added to hashes, ragouts, &c., is a great improvement. Gravy-Kettle. — This is a utensii •wliich will not be found in every kitchen ; but it is a useful one where it is necessary to ];eep gravies hot for the purpose of pouring over various dishes as they are cooldng. It is made of copper, and should, consequently, be heated over the hot plate, if there be one, or a charcoal stove. The price at wliich it can be purchased is set down by Messrs. Slack at 14s. GBAVY-EETTLE. GBAVY FOB BOAST MEAT. 433. Ii^GEEDiENTS.—Gravy, salt. Mode,—Put a common dish with a small quantity of salt in it under the meat, about a quarter of an hour before it is removed from the fire. "When the dish is full, take it away, baste the meat, and pour the gravy into the dish on which the joint is to be served. Sauces and Geavies iisr the Middle Ages.—JSTeither poultry, butcher's meat, nor roast game were eaten dry in the middle ages, any more than fried fish is now. Different sauces, each having its own peculiar flavour, were served with all these dishes, and even •with the various mparts of each animal. Strange and grotesque sauces, as, for example, *'eggs cooked on the spit," butter fried and roasted," were invented by the cooks of those days; but these preparations had hardly any other merit than that of being surprising and difficult to make. A QUICKLY-MADE GBAVY. 434. Inghedients.—I lb. of shin of beef, i onion, \ carrot, 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley and savoury herbs, a piece of butter about the size of a walnut; cayenne and mace to taste, f pint of water. Mode.—Cut up the meat into very small pieces, slice the onion and carrot, and put them into a small saucepan with the butter. Keep stirring over a sharp fire until they have taken a little colour, when add the water and the remaining ingredients. Simmer for J hour, skim well, strain, and flavour, when it will be ready for use. Time.—i hour. Average cQst^ for this quantity, 5d. A HuNDEED DiEEESENT DiSHES.—Modem housewives know pretty well how much care, and attention, and foresight are necessary in order to serve well a little dinner for ■six or eight persons,—a dinner which will give credit to the menage, and satisfaction and pleasure to the guests. A quickly-made gravy, under some circumstances that we have liuown occur, will be useful to many housekeepers when tliey have not much time for preparation. But, talking of speed, and time, and preparation, what a combination of all these must have been necessary for the feast at the wedding of Charles VI. of France. On that occasion, as Froissart the chronicler tells us, the art of cooking, with its in- numerable paraphernalia of sauces, with gravy, pepper, cinnamon, garlic, scallion, brains, gravy soups, rmWi. potage, and ragoiits, had a signal triumph. The skilful cZfe/*- de-cuisine of the royal houseliold covered the great marble table of the regal palace with no less than a hundred different dishes, prepared in a hundred different ways.