677 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY, butter, 4 eggs, f saltspoonful of salt, 4 large tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, flavouring to taste. 3Iode—Btew the rice very gently ia the above proportion of new milk, and, when it is tender, pour it into a basin; stir in the butter, and let it stand to cool; then beat the eggs, add these to the rice with the sugar, salt, and any flavouring that may be approved, sucli as nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, essence of bitter almonds, or vanilla. When all is well stirred, put the pudding into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for hour. Time.—hour. Average cost. Is, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Varieties op Eice.—Of the varieties of rice brought to our market, that from Bengal is chiefly of the species denominated cargo rice, and is of a coarse reddish-brown cast, but peculiarly sweet and large-grained; it does not readily separate from the husk, but it is preferred by the natives to all the others. Fatna rice is more esteemed in Europe, and is of very superior quality; it is small-grained, rather long and wiry, and is remark- ably white. The Carolina rice is considered as the best, and is likewise the dearest in London. II. (With Dried or Fresh Fridt; a nice dish for the Nursery.) 134^. Ingredients.—| lb. of rice, 1 pint of any kind of fresh fruit that may be preferred, or \ lb. of raisins or currants. il/ofZc—Wash the rice, tie it in a cloth, allowing room for it to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water ; let it boil for an hour, then take it up, untie the cloth, stir in the fruit, and tie it up again tolerably tight, and put it into the water for the remainder of the time. Boil for another hour, or rather longer, and serve with sweet sauce, if made with dried fruit, and with plain sifted sugar and a little cream or milk, if made with fresh fruit. Time.—I hour to boil the rice without the fruit; 1 hour, or longer, afterwards. Average cost, 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 children. Seasonable at any time. JVote.—This pudding is very good made with apples: they should be pared, cored, and cut into thin slices, BOILED BICE FOR CUBBIES, &o. 1347. Ingeedients.—} lb. of rice, water, salt. Mode.—Pick, wash, and soak the rice in plenty of cold water; then have ready a saucepan of boiling water, drop the rice into it, and keep it boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered, until it is tender, but not soft. Take it up, drain it, and put it on a dish before the fire to dry: do not handle it much with a spoon, but shake it about a