806 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. basting the wliole time. Sprinkle some line salt over it (this must never be done until the joint is dished, as it draws the juices from the meat); pour the dripping from the pan, put in a little boiling water slightly salted, and strain the gravy over the meat. Garnish with tufts of scraped horseradish, and send horseradish sauce to table with it {see No. 447). A Yorkshire pudding {see Puddings) sometimes accompanies this dish, and, if lightly made and well cooked, will be found a very agreeable addition. Time.—10 lbs. of beef, 21 hours; 14 to 16 lbs,, from Zh to 4 hours. Ave7'age cost^ 8M- per lb. Sufficient.—A joint of 10 Ybs. sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable at any time. MEiiOKAjrDA m EoASTiiTG.—The management of the lire is a point of primary importance in roasting. A radiant fire throughout the operation is absolutely necessary to insure a good result. When the article to be dressed is thin and delicate, the fire may be small; but when the joint is large, the fire must fill the grate. Meat must never be put down before a hollow or exhausted fire, which may soon want recruiting : on the other hand, if the heat of the fire becomes too fierce, the meat must be remoTcd to a considerable distance till 'it is somewhat abated. Some cooks always fail in their roasts, though they succeed in nearly everything else. A French writer on the culinary art says that anybody can learn hov.^ to cook, but one must be born a roaster. According to ^liebig, beef or mutton cannot be said to be sufficiently roasted until it has acquired, throughout the whole mass, a temperature of 15S°; but poultry may be well cooked when the inner parts have attained a temperature of from 130'^ to 140°. This depends on the greater amount of blood which beef and mutton contain, the colouring matter of blood not being coagulable under 158°. EOAST BIBS OF BESF, Boned and Boiled (a very Convenient Joint for a Small Family). 658. Ingeedients.—1 or 2 ribs of beef. If ode.—Choose a fine rib of beef, and have it cut according to the ■weight you require, either wide or narrow. Bone and roll the meat round, secure it with wooden skewers, and, if necessary, bind it round with a piece of tape. Spit the beef firmly, or, if a bottle-jack is used, put the joint on the hook, and place it wear a nice clear fire. Let it, remain so till the outside of the meat is set, when draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done, which can be ascertained by the steam from it drawing towards the fire. As this joint is solid, rather more than J hour must be allowed for each lb. Kemove the skewers, put in a plated or silver one, and send the joint to table with gravy in the dish, and garnish with tufts of horseradish. H^)rseradish sauce, ]^o. 447, is a great improvement to roast beef. Tiine.—Fov 10 lbs. of the rolled ribs, 3 hours (as the joint is very solid, we have allowed an extra | hour); for 6 lbs., H hour. Average cosfy 8id. per lb. Sufficient.—A. joint of 10 lbs. for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonalle all the year.