MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 194 leaf to keep tliem down; tie a paper over them, and put them in a warm place till they are yellow ; then wash them and set them over the fire in fresh water, with a very little salt, and another cabbage- leaf over them; cover very closely, but take care they do not boil. If they are not a fine green, change the water again, cover them as before, and make them hot. When they are a good colour, take them off the fire and let them cool; cut them in quarters, take out the seeds and pulp, and put them into cold water. Let them remain for 2 days, changing the water twice each day, to draw out the salt. Put the sugar, with | pint of water, in a saucepan over the fire ; remove the scum as it rises, and add the lemon-peel and ginger with the outside scraped off; when the syrup is tolerably thick, take it off the fire, and when cold^ wipe the cucumbers dry, and put them in. Boil the syrup once in 2 or 3 days for 3 weeks; strengthen it if required^ and let it be quite cold before the cucumbers are put in. Great attention must be paid to the directions in the commencement of this recipe, as, if these are not properly carried out, the result will be far from satisfactory. Seasonable.—This recipe should be used in June, July, or August. Common Salt.—By tliis we mean salt used for cooking purposes, whicli is found in great abundance both on land and in the waters of the ocean. Sea or salt water, as it is often called, contains, it has been, discovered, about three per cent, of salt on an average. Sohd rocks of salt are also found in various parts of the world, and the county of Chester contains many of these mines, and it is from there that much of our salt comes. Some springs are so highly impregnated with salt, as to have received the name of "brine" springs, and are supposed to have become so by passing through the salt rocks below ground, and thus dissolving a portion SALT-MINE AT NOHTHWICH. of this mineral substance. We here give an engraving of a salt-mine at ITorthwich, Cheshire, where both salt-mines and brine-springs are exceedingly pro- ductive, and are believed to have been wrought so far back as during the oo« ,npation of Britain by the Komans. CUSTARD SAUOH] FOR SWSET PUDDIKaS OR TARTS. 404. I^fGEEDiENTS.—1 pint of milk, 2 eggs, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Mode.—Vut the milk in a very clean saucepan, and let it boil. Beat the eggs, stir to them the milk and pounded sugar, and put the mixture into a jug. Place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water j keep stirring well until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or ii