VEAL. 425 the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, beat up an egg, with \7hich bind the mixture. Butter a shape, put in the meat, and bake for I hour; turn it out of the mould carefully, and pour round it a good brown gravy. A sheep's head dressed in this manner is an economical and savoury dish. Time.—| hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 6f?. Seasonable from March to October BRAISED NECK OF VEAL. 893. Ingeedients.—The best end of the neck of veal (from 3 to 4 lbs.), bacon, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste ; 1 onion, 2 carrots, a little celery (when this is not obtainable, use the seed), J glass of sherry, thickening of butter and flour, lemon-juice, 1 blade of pounded mace. 3fode.—Prepare the bacon for larding, and roll it in minced parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; lard the veal, put it into a stev/pan with a few slices of lean bacon or ham, an onion, carrots, and celery; and do not quite cover it with water. Stew it gently for 2 hours, or until it is quite tender ; strain off the liquor; stir together over the fire, in a stewpan, a little flour and butter until brown ; lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan, and let it remain till of a nice brown colour. Place it in the dish ; pour into the stewpan as much gravy as is required, boil it up, skim well, add the wine, pounded mace, and lemon-juice; simmer for 3 minutes, pour it over the meat, and serve. Time.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, 8d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. BiETH oi' Calves,—The cow seldom produces more than a single calf; sometimes, twins, and, very rarely, three. A French new spaper, however,—the *' Nouveau Bulletin des Sciences,"—gave a trustworthy but extraordinary account of a cow which produced nine calves in all, at three successive births, in three successive years. The first year, four cow calves; the second year, three calves, two of them females; the third year, two calves, both females. With the exception of two belonging to the first birth, aU Avere fiuckled by the mother. ROAST UECK OP VEAL. 894. Ingeedients.—Yeal, melted butter, forcemeat balls, il/of/e.—Have the veal cut from the best end of the neck; dredge it with flour, and put it down to a bright clear fire; keep it well basted; I dish it, pour over it some melted butter, and garnish the dish with 1 fried forcemeat balls; send to table with a cut lemon. The scrag