9S3 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. DUTIES OF THE HOUSEMAID. 2292. "Cleanliness is next to godliness," saitli the proverb, and order " is in tliG next degree ; the housemaid, then, may be said to be the handmaiden to two of the most prominent virtues. Her duties are very numerous, and many of the comforts of the family depend on their performance ; but they are simple and easy to a person naturally clean and orderly, and desirous of giving satisfaction. In all families, vv^hatever the habits of the master and mistress, servants will find it advantageous to rise early ; their daily work will thus come easy to them. If they rise late, there is a struggle to overtake it, which throws an air of haste and hurry over the whole establishment. Where the master's time is regulated by early business or professional engage- ments, this will, of course, regulate the hours of the servants ; but even where that is not the case, servants will find great personal convenience in rising early and getting through their work in an orderly and methodical manner. The housemaid who studies her own ease will certainly be at her work by six o'clock in the summer, and, probably, half-past six or seven in the winter months, having spent a reasonable time in her own chamber in dressing. Earlier than this would, probably, be an mmecessary waste of coals and candle in winter. 2293. The first duty of the housemaid in winter is to open the shutters of all the lower rooms in the house, and take up the hearth-rugs of those rooms which she is going to do " before breakfast. In some families, where there is only a cook and housemaid kept, and where the drawing-rooms are large, the cook has the care of the dining- room, and the housemaid that of the break- fast-room, library, and drawing-rooms. After the shutters are all opened, she sweeps tlio breakfast-room, sweeping the dust towards the fire-place, of course previously removing the fender. She should then lay a cloth (generally made of coarse wrappering) over the carpet in front of the stove, and on this should place her CAEPET-BKOOilS. . ' . ^ housemaid's box, containing black-lead brushes, leathers, emery-paper, cloth, black lead, and all utensils necessary for cleaning a grate, with the cinder-pail on the other side. 2294. She now sweeps-up the ashes, and deposits them in her cindor-pail, which is a japanned tin pail, with a wire-sifter inside, and a closely-fitting top. In this pail the cinders are sifted, and reserved for use in the kitchen or under the copper, the ashes only being thrown away. The cinders disposed of, she proceeds to black-lead the grate, producing the black lead, the soft brush for laying it on, her blacking and polishing brashes, from the box which contains