68 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. CUCUMBEB SOUP (Frencli Recipe). 127. Ingredients.—1 large cucumber, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a little chervil and sorrel cut in large pieces salt and pepper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 gill of cream, 1 quart of medium stock N"o. 105. jyfocZe.—Pare the cucumber, quarter it, and take out the seeds; cut it in thin slices, put these on a plate with a little salt, to draw the water from them; drain, and put them in your stewpan, with the butter. When they are warmed through, without being browned, pour the stock on them. Add the sorrel, chervil, and seasoning, and boil for 40 minutes. Mix the well-beaten yolks of the eggs with the cream, which add at the moment of serving. Time.—1 hour. Avei^age cost, Is. 2d. per quart. Seasonable from June to September. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Cucumber.—The antiquity of this fruit is very great. In the sacred writings we find that the people of Israel regretted it, whilst sojourning in the desert; and at the present time, the cucumber, and other fruits of its class, form a large portion of the food of the Egyptian people. By the Eastern nations generally, as well as by the Greeks and Komans, it was greatly esteemed. Like the melon, it was originally brought from Asia by the Eomans, and in the 14th century it was common in England, although, in the time of the wars of *' the Eoses," it seems no longer to have been cultivated. It is a cold food, and of difficult digestion when eaten raw. As a preserved sweetmeat, however, it is esteemed one of the most agreeable. Eaa SOUP. 128. Ingredients.—A tablespoonful of flour, 4 eggs, 2 small blades of finely-pounded mace, 2 quarts of stock No. 105. Mode.—Beat up the flour smoothly in a teaspoonful of cold stock, and put in the eggs ; throw them into boiling stock, stirring all the time. Simmer for | of an hour. Season and serve with a French roll in the tureen, or fried sippets of bread. Time.—| an hour. Average cost, lid, per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. ■ - t: SOUP A LA PLAMANDE (Plemish). I. 129. Tngredients.—I turnip, 1 small carrot, J head of celery, 6 green onions shred very fine, 1 lettuce cut small, chervil, ^ pint of asparagus cut small, J pint of peas, 2 oz. butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, i pint of cream, salt to taste, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of stock No. 105. 3fode.—F\it the vegetables in the butter to stew gently for an hour with a teacupful of stock ; then add the remainder of the stock, and