presehves, confectiottart. etc. 799 Sufficient.—\h pint of fruit, with 3 oz. of pounded sugar, for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in summer STRAWBERKIES AND CBEAM. 1593. Inghedients.—To every pint of picked strawberries allow I pint of cream, 2 oz. of finely-pounded sugar. Ilode.—Pick the stalks from the fruit, place it on a glass dish, sprinkle over it pounded sugar, and slightly stir the strawberries, that they may all be equally sweetened ; pour the cream over the top, and serve. Devonshire cream, when it can be obtained, is exceedingly de- licious for this dish; and, if very thick indeed, may be diluted with a little thin cream or milk. Average cost for this quantity, with cream at Is. per pint, ls» Sufficient for 2 persons. Seasonable in June and July. STBAWBEBIIY- JAM. 1594. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit allow \ pint of red-cur- rant juice, 15 lb. of loaf sugar. i)^o<:?(?.—Strip the currants from the stalks, put them into ajar; place this jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and simmer until the juice is well drawn from the fruit; strain the currants, measure the juice, put it into a preserving-pan, and add the sugar. Select well- ripened but sound strawberries; pick them from the stalks, and when the sugar is dissolved in the currant juice, put in the fruit. Simmer the whole over a moderate fire, from 2^ to f hour, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Stir the jam only enough to prevent it from burning at the bottom of the pan, as the fruit should be preserved as whole as possible. Put the jam into jars, and when cold, cover down. Time.—i to f hour, reckoning from the time the jam simmers all oyer. Average cost, from Id. to ^d. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—12 pints of strawberries will make 12 lb. pots of jam. Seaso7iable in June and July. PBESEBVBD STBAV/BEBBIES IN WINE. 1595. Inghedients.—To every quart bottle allow I lb. of finely- pounded loaf bugar; sherry or Madeira. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered in fine weather, and used as soon as picked. Have ready some perfectly dry glass bottles, and some