POULTRY. 4S5 The Fantail Pigeon.—This curious yariety is inferior in point of size to most other varieties, and is characterized by having a short, slender bill, pendent wings, and naked legs and feet. It has the power of erecting its tail in the manner of a turkey-cock; during which action, especially when paying court to its mate, it trembles or shakes, like the peacock when moving about with his train expanded and in full display. This power of erecting and spreading the tail is not confined to the male bird alone : the female possesses the same power to an equal extent, and otherwise resembles the male in every respect. It is not very prolific, and seldom succeeds so well in the aviary or pigeon-house as most of tho other kinds. of tho PANTAIL PIGEOITS, The Jacobin Pigeon.—This variety, having form precisely similar, with all its peculiar characters undiminished, is, among pigeon- fanciers, designated as of a pure or permanent race. It is distinguished by a remarkable ruff or frill of raised feathers, which, commencing behind the head and proceeding down the neck and breast, forms a kind of hood, not unlike that worn by a monk. From this circumstance, it has obtained its Gallic name of nonnain capuchin. In size it is one of the smallest of the domestic pigeons, and its form is light and elegant. It is a very productive species, and, having its flight considerably impeded by the size and form of its hooded frill, keeps much at home, and i3 well adapted for the aviary or other buildings where pigeons are confined. the power to transmit to posterity a JACOBIN PIGEONS. TURBIT PIGEONS. The Tuebit Pigeon.—This variety bears a strong resemblance to the Jacobin, having a kind of frill in the fore part of its neck, occa- sioned by the breast-feathers lying contrariwise and standing straight out. The species is classed in accordance with the colour of the shoulders, similarly as the Nuns are by the colour of their heads. Their characteristics of excellence area fuU frill, short bill, and small round head. In Germany it is called the ruffle pigeon, in allusion to the feathers on its breast; and it has rarely any feathers on its feet. There ia a peculiarity connected Avith this bird, which somewhat lowers / it in the estimation of fanciers : it seldom rears more than one at a time, which, therefore, marks it as a bird rather for amusement than profit. The Bakb Pigeon.—The name of this variety is a contraction of Barbary, from which country it originally comes. It is both prolific and has excellent qualities as a nurse. The kind most esteemed is that of one uniform colour, that of blue-black being preferable to any other. _ Speckled or mottled Barbs are esteemed the most common of all pigeons. It is not unlike -^^-r the Carrier pigeon, and, at "a small distance, mU^^ might easily be mistaken for the latter. It has c*'^ a short beak and a small wattle. A spong}'-, pinky skin round the eyes is its chief charac- teristic, however, and this increases in size till the bird is three or four years old. This pecu- liarity is hardly distinguishable in very young birds. EAKB PIGEONS,