MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 586 FEIED POTATOES (French Faroliion). 1142. IiTGEEDiEi^TS.—Potatoes, hot butter or clarified dripping, salt. Mode.—Teel and cut the potatoes into thin slices, as nearly the same size as possible; make some butter or dripping quite hot in a frying-pan ; put in the potatoes, and fry them on both sides of a nice brown. When they are crisp and done, take them up, place them on a cloth before the fire to drain the grease from them, and serve very hot, after sprinkling them with salt. These are delicious with rump-steak, and, in France, are frequently served thus as a breakfast dish. The remains of cold potatoes may also be sliced and fried by the above recipe, but the slices must be cut a little thicker. Ti7ne.—Sliced raw potatoes, 5 minutes ; cooked potatoes, 6 minutes. Average cost, As. per bushel. Sufficient,—Q sliced potatoes for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. A GERMASr METHOD OF COOKIKG POTATOES. 1143. Ingkedients.—8 to 10 middling-sized potatoes, 3 oz. of but- ter, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, h pint of broth, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Ilode.—Pnt the butter and flour into a stewpan; stir over the tire until the butter is of a nice brown colour, and add the broth and vinegar; peel and cut the potatoes into long thin slices, lay them in the gravy, and let them simmer gently until tender, which will be in from 10 to 15 minutes, and serve very hot. A laurel-leaf simmered with the potatoes is an improvement. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Seasonable at any time. pRESEBViHG POTATOES.—In general, potatoes are stored or preserved in pits, cellars, pies, or camps; but, whatever mode is adopted, it is essential that the tubers be perfectly dry; otherwise, they will surely rot; and a few rotten potatoes will contaminate a whole mass. The pie, as it is called, consists of a trench, lined and covered with straw; the potatoes in it being piled in the shape of a house roof, to the height of about three feet. The camps are shallow pits, filled and ridged up in a simOar manner, covered pp with the excavated mould of the pit. In Kussia and Canada, the potato is preserved in boses, in houses or cellars, heated, when necessary, to a temperature one or two degrees above the freezing-point, by stoves. To keep potatoes for a considerable time, the best way is to place them in thin layers on a platform suspended in an ice-cellar: there, the temperature being always below that of active vegetation, they will not sprout; while, not being above one or two degrees below the freezing-point, the tubers will not be frostbitten. Another mode is to scoop out the eyes with a very small scoop, and keep the roots buried in earth; a third mode is to destroy the vital principle, by kiln-drying, steaming, or scalding; a fourth is to bury them so deep in dry soil, that no change of temperature will reach them; and thus, being without air, they will remain upwards of a year without vegetating.