£11 BAUCrS, ETC. BEMOULADE, or FKENCII SALAD-DEESSIISTG. 503. Ingeedients.—4 eggs, i tablespoonful of made mustard, salt and cayenne to taste, 3 tablespoonfuls of olive-oil, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon or plain vinegar. Mode,—Boil 3 eggs quite hard for about J hour, put them into cold water, and let them remain in it for a few minutes; strip off the shells, put the yolks in a mortar, and pound them very smoothly; add to them, very gradually, the mustard, seasoning, and vinegar, keeping all well stirred and rubbed down with the back of a wooden spoon. Put in the oil drop by drop, and when this is thoroughly mixed with the other ingredients, add the yolk of a raw egg, and stir well, when it will be ready for use. This sauce should not be curdled ; and to prevent this, the only way is to mix a little of everything at a time, and not to cease stirring. The quantities of oil and vinegar may be increased or diminished according to taste, as many persons would prefer a smaller proportion of the former ingredient. Geeen Eemoulade is made by using tarragon vinegar instead of plain, and colouring with a little parsley-juice, No. 495. Harvey's sauce, or Chili vinegar, may be added at pleasure. Ttme,—^ hour to boil the eggs. Average cost, for this quantity, *Id. Sufficient for a salad made for 4 or 6 persons. Tarragon".—The leaves of this plant, known to naturalists as Artemisia dracicnculiis, are much used in France as a tarragon". flavouring ingredient for salads. From it also is made the vinegar known as tarragon vinegar, which is employed by the French in mixing their mustard. It originally comes from Tartary, and does not seed in France. SAGE-AND-OWIOW STUFFING, for Geese, Ducks, and Pork. 504. Ingredients.—4 large onions, 10 sage-leaves, ^ lb. of bread crumbs, 1J oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 egg. Jfoc?e.—Peel the onions, put them into boiling water, let them simmer for 5 minutes or rather longer, and, just before they are taken out, put in the sage-leaves for a minute or two to take off their raw- ness. Chop both these very fine, add the bread, seasoning, and butter, and work the whole together with the yolk of an egg, when the stuffing will be ready for use. It should be rather highly seasoned, and the sage-leaves should be very finely chopped. Many cooks do not parboil the onions in the manner just stated, but merely use thcni R