1019 IlEAPJ^'G, ETC., OF CHILDREN. lips imd nostrils, hot fetid breath, with relaxed bowels, and dark feculent evacuations; the water is scanty and high-coloured ; whilst considerable diflSculty in swallowing, and much thirst, are the other symptoms, which a careful observation of the little patient makes manifest. 2528. The situation and character of thrush show at once that the cause is some irritation of the mucous membrane, and can proceed only from the nature and quality of the food. Before weaning, this must be looked for in the mother, and the condition of the milk ; after that time, in the crude and indigestible nature of the food given. In either case, this exciting cause of the disease must be at once stopped. When it proceeds from the mother, it is always best to begin by physicking the infant through the parent; that is to say, let the parent first take the medicine, which will sufficiently affect the child through the milk : this plan has the double object of benefiting the patient and, at the same time, correcting the state of the mother, and ini- l^roving the condition of her milk. In the other case, when the child is being- fed by hand, then proceed by totally altering the style of aliment given, and substituting faiinaceous food, custards, blanc-mange, and ground-rico puddings. 2529. As an aperient medicine for the mother, the best thing she can tako is a dessert-spoonful of carbonate of magnesia once or twice a day, in a cup of cold water; and every second day, for two or three times, an aperient pill. 2530. As the thrush extends all over the mouth, throat, stomach, and bowels, the irritation to the child from such an extent of diseased surface is proportionately great, and before attempting to act on such a tender surface by opening medicine, the better plan is to soothe by an emollient mixture ; and^ for that purpose, let the following be prepared. Take of Castor oil , 2 drachms. Sugar ... . , . . 1 drachm. Mucilage, or pov\rdered gum Arabic . half a drachm. Triturate till the oil is incorporated, then add slowly— Mint-water One ounce and a half. Laudanum Ten drops. Half a teaspoonful three times a day, to an infant from one to two years old ; a teaspoonful from two to three years old ; and a dessert-spoonful at any ago over that time. After two days' use of the mixture, one of the following powders should be given twice a day, accompanied with one dose daily of the mixture :— Grey powder ...... 20 grains. Powdered rhubarb 15 grains. Scammony 10 grains. Mir. Divide irxto twelve j)owders, for one year ; eight powders, from one to two ;