418 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. boil for 1 hour, or until the gravy is reduced nearly half. Strain it into a clean stewpan, thicken it with a little butter and flour, and add a flavouring of sherry, lemon-juice, and ketchup, in the above proportion; season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne; put in the meat, let it gradually warm through, but not boil more than two or three minutes. Garnish the dish with forcemeat balls and pieces of bacon rolled and toasted, placed alternately, and send it to table very hot. Time.—Altogether Ij hour. Average cost, exclusive of the remains of the head, 6d^ Seasonable from March to October. VEAL COLIiOPS (an Entree). 879. Ii^aEEDiEisrTS.—About 2 lbs. of the prime part of the leg of veal, a few slices of bacon, forcemeat ISTo. 417, cayenne to taste, egg and bread crumbs, gravy. Mode.—Cut the veal into long thin collops, flatten them, and lay on each a piece of thin bacon of the same size; have ready some force- meat, made by recipe No. 417, which spread over the bacon, sprinlde over all a little cayenne, roll them up tightly, and do not let them be more than 2 inches long. Skewer each one firmly, egg and bread crumb them, and fry them a nice brown in a little butter, turning them occa- sionally, and shaking the pan about. When done, place them on a dish before the fire; put a small piece of butter in the pan, dredge in a little flour, add i pint of water, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, a seasoning of salt, pepper, and pounded mace; let the whole boil up, and pour it over the collops. From 10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, 10c?. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. CALF'S LIVER AUX PINES HEIIBES& SAUCE PIQUANTB. 880. Inghedients.—A calf's liver, flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley; when liked, 2 minced shalots; 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juic^ pepper and salt to taste, J pint water. Mode.—Procure a calfs liver as white as possible, and cut it into slices of a good and equal shape. Dip them in flour, and fry them of a good colour in a little butter. "When they are done, put them on a dish, which keep hot before the fire. Mince the herbs very fine, put them in the frvirg-pan with a little more butter; add the remaining