S22 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, hot. A small quantity of porter, or port wine, is sometimes mixed ■with the cheese; and, if it be not very rich, a few pieces of butter may he mixed with it to great advantage. Sometimes the melted cheese is spread on the toasts, and then laid in the cheese-dish at the top of the hot water. Whichever way it is served, it is highly necessary that the mixture be very hot, and very quickly sent to table, or it will be worthless. Tiine.—About 5 minutes to melt the cheese. Average cost, lie?, per slice. Sufficient,—Allow a slice to each person. Seasonahle at any time. TOASTED CHESSS, or WELSH KABE-EIT. 1652. IjTGEEDiENTS.—Slices of bread, butter, Cheshire or Gloucester cheese, mustard, and pepper. IIode.—CvLt the bread into slices about iinch in thickness; pare off the crust, toast the bread slightly without hardening or burning it, and spread it with butter. Cut some slices, not quite so large as the bread, from a good rich fat cheese; lay them on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster; be careful that the cheese does not burn, and let it be equally melted. Spread over the top a little made mustard and a seasoning of pepper, and serve very hot, with very hot plates. To facilitate the melting of the cheese, it may be cut into thin flakes or toasted on one side before it is laid on the bread. As it is so 'essential to send this dish hot to table, it is a good plan to melt the cheese in small round silver or metal pans, and to send these pans to table, allowing one for each guest. Slices of dry or buttered toast should always accompany them, with mustard, pepper, and salt. Ti7ne,—About 5 minutes to melt the cheese. Average cost, Hd each slice. Sufficient.—Allow a slice to each person. Seasonahle at any time. Note,—Should tlie cheese be dry, a little butter mixed with it will be an improvement. "Cow CsEESE."—It was onlyfift]r years after Aristotle—^the fourth century before Christ—that butter began to he noticed as an aliment. The Greeks, in imitation of the Parthians and Scythians, who used to send it to them, had it served upon their tables, and called it at first " oil of milk," and later, louturos, " cow cheese." SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 1653. Ik-qeediehts.—A few slices of hot buttered toast; allow 1 anchovy to each slice. For the sauce,—i pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, ^/ot/e.—Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former, stir to them the cream, and bring the sauce to the boiling-