MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 78 men, and to enter formally upon a career, whicli every loyal subject of the queen will pray may be a long and a happy one, for his own sake and for the sake of the vast empire which, in the course of nature, he v/ill one day be called to govern. The best wish that we can offer for the young prince is, t?iat in his own path he may ever keep before him the bright example of his royal mother, and show himself worthy of her name/ There are few in these realms who will not give a fervent response to these sentiments. B. November 9th, 1841." POTAGB PBINTAHIEK, OR SPRIlSra SOUP. 149. lNGEEDiEK"TS.--i a pint of green peas, if in season, a little chervil, 2 shredded lettuces, 2 onions, a very small bunch of parsley, 2 oz. of butter, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 pint of water, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of stock No. 105. Ifode.—Put in a very clean stewpan the chervil, lettuces, onions, parsley, and butter, to 1 pint of water, and let them simmer till tender. Season with salt and pepper; when done, strain off the vege- tables, and put two-thirds of the liquor they were boiled in to the stock. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the other third, give it a toss over the fire, and at the moment of serving, add this, with the vegetables which you strained off, to the soup. Time—'I of an hour. Average costy Is. per quart. Seasonable from May to October. Sufficient for 8 persons. BICE SOUP. 150- Ingeedteitts.—i oz. of Patna rice, salt, cayenne, and mace, 2 quarts of white stock. 3£ode,—Thiow the rice into boiling water, and let it remain 5 minutes; then pour it into a sieve, and allow it to drain well. E"ow add it to the stock boiling, and allow it to stew till it is quite tender; season to taste. Serve quickly. Ti7ne.—I hour. Average cost, Is. Sd. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Rice.—This is a plant of Indian origin, and has formed the principal food of the Indian and Chinese people from the most remote antiquity. Both Pliny and Dioscorides class it with the cereals, though Galen places it among the vegetables. Be this as it may, however, it was imported to Greece, from India, about 283 years before Christ, and by the ancients it was esteemed both nutritious and fattening. There are three kinds of rice,—the Hill rice, the Patna, and the Carolina, of the United States. Of these, only the two latter are imported to this country, and the Carohna is considered the best, as it is the dearest. The nourishing pro- EAES 01' EicE. perties of rice are greatly inferior to those of wheat; but it is both a light and a wholesome food. In combination with other foods, its nutritive qua,lities are greatly increased; but from its having little stimulating power, it is apt, when taken in large quantities alone, to lie long on the stomach,.