RECIPES. CHAPTER XXXYII. TO MAKE CHOCOLATE. 1807. Ingredients.—Allow ^ oz. of chocolate to each person; to every oz. allow J pint of water, i pint of milk. 3fode.—Make the milk-and-water hot; scrape the chocolate into it, and stir the mixture constantly and quickly until the chocolate is dissolved; bring it to the boiling-point, stir it well, and serve directly with white sugar. Chocolate prepared with in a mill, as shown in the engraving, is made by putting in the scraped chocolate, pouring over it the boiling milk-and-water, and milling it over the hre until hot and frothy. Sufficient.—Allow i oz. of cake chocolate to each person, MILL. Chocolate and Cocoa.—Botli tliese preparations are made from the seeds or beans of tlie cacao-tree, which grows in the West Indies and South America. The Spanish, and the proper name, is cacao, not cocoa, as it is generally spelt. From this mistake, the tree from which the beverage is procured has been often confounded with the palm that produces the edible cocoa-nuts, which are the produce of the cocoa-tree (Cocos nucifera), whereas the tree from which chocolate is procured is very different (the Theohroma cacao), The cocoa-tree was cultivated by the aboriginal inhabitants of South America, particularly in Mexico, where, according to Humboldt, it was reared by Montezuma. It was traus- Elanted thence into other dependencies of the Spanish monarchy in 1520 ; and it was so ighly esteemed by Linnasus as to receive from him the name now conferred upon it, of Theobroma, a term derived from the Greek, and signifying food for gods." Chocolate has always been a favourite beverage among the Spaniards and Creoles, and was considered here as a great luxury when first introduced, after the discovery of America; but the high duties laid upon it, confined it long almost entirely to the wealthier classes. Before it was subjected to duty, Mr. Bryan Edwards stated that cocoa plantations were numerous in Jamaica, but that the duty caused their almost entire ruin. The removal of this duty has increased their cultivation. (For engraving of cocoa-bean, see No. 1816.) TO MAKE ESSENCE OF COFFEE. 1808. Ingredients.—To every \ lb. of ground coffee allow 1 small teaspoonful of powdered chicory, 3 small teacupfuls, or 1 pint, of water. 3fode.—Let the coffee be freshly ground, and, if possible, freshly roasted; put it into a percolator, or filter, with the chicory, and pour slowly over it the above proportion of boiling water. When it has all filtered through, warm the coffee sufficiently to bring it to the