632 modehn household cookery. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. BAKED BATTEH PUDDING, witli Dried or Fresli Fruit. 1247. Ii^GEEDiENTS.—pint of milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, 3 eggs, 2 oz. of finely-shredded suet, | lb. of currants, a pinch of salt. Jfof?^.—Mix the milk, flour, and eggs to a smooth batter; add a little salt, the suet, and the currants, which should be well washed, picked, and dried; put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven for Ij hour. "When fresh fruits are in season, this pudding is exceedingly nice, with damsons, plums, red currants, gooseberries, or apples; when made with these, the pudding must be thickly sprinkled over v*^ith sifted sugar. Boiled batter pudding, with fruit, is made in the same manner, by putting the fruit into a buttered basin, and filling it up with batter made in the above pro- portion, but omitting the suet. It must be sent quickly to table, and covered plentifully with sifted sugar. Time.—Baked batter pudding, with fruit, l\ to li hour; boiled ditto, li to 1| hour, allowing that both are made with the above proportion of batter. Smaller puddings will be done enough in f or 1 hour. Average cost, lOch Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Scasonahle at any time, with dried fruits. BOILED BATTER PUDDING. 1248. In-geediekts.—3 eggs, 1 oz. of butter, 1 pint of milk, Stable- spoonfuls of flour, a little salt. Mode.—Put the flour into a basin, and add sufficient milk to moisten it; carefully rub down all the lumps with a spoon, then pour in the remainder of the milk, and stir in the butter, which should be pre- viously melted ; keep beating the mixture, add the eggs and a pinch of salt, and when the batter is quite smooth, put it into a well-buttered basin, tie it down very tightly, and put it into boiling water; move the basin about for a few minutes after it is put into the water, to prevent the flour settling in any part, and boil for I4 hour. This pudding may also be boiled in a floured cloth that has been wetted in hot water; it will then take a few minutes less than when boiled in a basin. Send these puddings very quickly to table, and serve with sweet sauce, wine sauce, stewed fruit, or jam of any kind: when the latter is used, a little of it may be placed round the dish in small quantities, as a garnish. Ti)7ie,~ll hour in a basin, 1 hour in a cloth. Average cost, Id,