12-3 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, waterSj and a few live upon land. They feed variously, on acjiiatic or marine plants, small iish, mollusciB, or dead bodies. The black-clawed species ia found on the rocky coasts of bioth Euro^De and India, and is the same that is introduced to our tables, being much more highly esteemed as a food than many others of the tribe. The most remarkable feature in their history, is the changing; of their shells, and the reproduction of their broken claws. I'he former occurs once a year, usually between Christ- mas and Easter, when the crabs retire to cavities in the rocks, or conceal themselves under great stones. Fishenuen say that they wiU live confined in a pot or basket for several months together, without any other food than what is col- lected from the sea-water; and that, even in this situation, they will not decrease in weight. The hermit crab is another of the species, and has the pecuharity of taking possession of the deserted shell of some other animal, as it has none of its own. This circumstance was known to the ancients, and is alluded to in the following lines from Oppian :— The hermit fish, unarm'd by Nature, left Helpless and weak, grow strong by harmless theft, Eearful they stroll, and look with panting wish Eor the cast crust of some new-cover'd fish; Or such as empty lie, and deck the shore. Whose first and rightful owners are no more. They make glad seizure of the vacant room, And count the borrow'd shell their native home; Screw their soft limbs to fit the winding case. And boldly herd with the crustaceoua race. CBAYFISH. 246. Crayfish should be thrown into boiling water, to which has been added a good seasoning of salt and a little vinegar. When done, which will be in J hour, take them out and drain them. Let them cool, arrange them on a napkin, and garnish with plenty of double parsley. Note.—This fisli is frequently used for garnishing boiled tuikey, boiled fowl, calfs head, turbot, and all kinds of boiled fish. POTTED CBAYFISH. 247. liTGEEDiENTS.—100 crayfish; pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. butter. Mode.—Boil the fish in salt and water ; pick out all the meat and pound it in a mortar to a paste. "Whilst pounding, add the butter gradually, and mix in the spice and seasoning. Put it in small pots, and pour over it clarified butter, carefully excluding the air. Ti7ne.—15 minutes to boil the crayfish. Average cost^ 2s, 9d, Seasonable all the year. JOHIT DOBY. 243. Iis^GEEDiEiTTS.—^ lb. of Salt to each gallon of water. 3Iode.~lLh\^ fish, which is esteemed by most people a great deli- cacy, is dressed in the same way as a tiirbot, which it resembles in