THE DOCTOR. 1063 2589. 2. Fever 3I'ix{iire.—-'Mi-K. a drachm of powdered iiitre, 2 drachms of carbonate of potash, 2 teaspoonfuls of antimonial wine, and a tablespoonful of Bweet spirits of nitre, in half a pint of water. 2590. 3. Mi/rrh and Aloes Pills.—Ten grains made into two pills are the dose for a full-grown person. 259r. 4. Compound Irooi Pills.—Doso for a full-grown person: 10 grains made into two pills. 2592. Pills.—1. Mix 5 grains of calomel and the same quantity of anti- monial powder with, a little bread-crumb, and make into two pills. Dose for a full-grown person : two pills.—2. Mix 5 grains of blue pill and the same quantity of compound extract of colocynth together, and make into two jjills, the dose for a full-grown person. 2593. Powders.—Mix a grain of calomel and 4 grains of powdered jalap together. 2594. In all cases, the dose of medicines given is to be regulated by the age of the patient, 2595. Ahernethy's Plan for maJcing a Bread-and-Water Poultice.—First scald out a basin ; then having put in some boiling water, throv/ in coarsely- crumbled bread, and cover it with a plate. When the bread has soaked up as much water as it will imbibe, drain off the remaining water, and there will be left a light pulp. Spread it a third of an inch thick on folded linen, and apply it when of the temperature of a warm bath. To preserve it moist, occasionally drop warm water on it. 2596. Linseed-Meal Poultice.—"Scald your basin, by pouring a little hot water into it; then put a small quantity of finely-ground linseed-meal into the basin, pour a little hot water on it, and stir it round briskly until you have well incorporated them; add a little more meal and a little more water; then stir it again. Do not let any lumps remain in the basin, but stir the poultice well, and do not be sparing of your trouble. What you do next, is to take as much of it out of the basin as you may require, lay it on a piece of soft linen, and let it be about a quarter of an inch thick."—Ahernethy. 2597. Ifiistard Poultice.—Mix equal parts of dry mustard and linseed-meal in warm vinegar. When the poultice is wanted weak, warm water may be used for the vinegar; and when it is required very strong, mustard alone, without any linseed-meal, is to be mixed with warm vinegar, 2598. A 71 ordinary Blister.—Spread a little blister compound on a piece of common adhesive plaster with the right thumb. It should be put on just thickly enough to conceal the appearance of the plaster beneath. The part from which a blister has been taken should be covered till it heals over with soft linen rags smeared with lard.