MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 572 4 hours, according to their age ; then put them into cold water, salted in the above proportion, bring them to boil, and let them simmer very slowly until tender; pour the water away from them, let them stand by the side of the fire, with the lid of the saucepan partially ofi', to allow the beans to dry; then add 1 oz. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Shake the beans about for a minute or two, and serve: do not stir them with a spoon, for fear of breaking them to pieces. Time,—Aftev the water boils, from 2 to 2| hours. Average cost, 4e?. per quart. Sufficient fov 4: OT 5 peTSon^, Seasonable in winter, when other vegetables are scarce. iVo^^.—Haricots blancs^ when new and fresh, should be put into boiling water, and do not require any soaking previous to dressing. Habicots an"D Lentils.—Although these vegetables are not much usedin this country, yet in France, and other Catholic countries, from their peculiar constituent properties, they form an excellent substitute for animal food during Lent and maigre days. At tho time of the prevalence of the Eoman religion in this country, they were probably much more generally used than at present. As reformations artf often carried beyond necessity, possibly lentils may have fallen into disuse, as an article of diet amongst Protestants, for fear the use of them might be considered a sign of popery. ii HABICOTS BIiANCS A LA MAITEE D'HOTiEIi. 1120. Ingkedients.—1 quart of white haricot beans, \ lb. of fresh butter, 1 tablespoonf td of minced parsley, popper and salt to taste, the juice of i lemon. i)lfoc?(?.—Should the beans be very dry, soak them for an hour or two in cold water, and boil them until perfectly tender, as in the preceding recipe. If the water should boil away, replenish it with a little more cold, which makes the skin of the beans tender. Let them be very thoroughly done; drain them well; then add to them the butter, minced parsley, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Keep moving ' the stewpan over the fire without using a spoon, as this would break the beans; and, when the various ingredients are well mixed with them, squeeze in the lemon-juice, and serve very hot. Time.—^From 2 to 2i hours to boil the beans. Average cost, id. per quart. i HABICOT BEANS. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in winter. ^." -^'^^.Jl-as.'K^..—This is thfi haricot llnna of fH« Frencli, and is a native of India. It ripens readuy, in dry summers, in most parts of Critain, but iU culture has hitherto been