M0D2RN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. IGO juice; lay in the 2 soles and balls; let them simmer gently for 5 minntes ; serve hot, and garnish with cut lemon. Time.—10 minutes to fry the soles. uiverage cost for this quantity, 35. SeasonaUe at any time. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. How Soles are caught.—The instrument usually emr)loyed is a trawl net, which is sh.aped like a pocket, of from sixty to eighty feet long, and open at the mouth from thirty-two to forty feet, and three deep. This is dragged along the ground by the vessel, and on the art of the fisherman in its employment, in a great measure depends the quality of the fish he catches. If, for example, he drags the net too quickly, all that are caught are swept rapidly to the end of the net, where they are smothered, and sometimes destroyed. A medium has to be observed, in order that as few as possible escape being caught in the net, and as many as possible preserved alive in it. FBIED FILLETED SOLES. 326. Soles for filleting should be large, as the flesh can be more easily separated from the bones, and there is less waste. Skin and wash the fish, and raise the meat carefully from the bones, and divide it into nice handsome pieces. The more usual way is to roll the fillets, after dividing each one in two pieces, and either bind them round with twine, or run a small skewer through them. Brush over with egg, and cover with bread crumbs; fry them as directed in the fore- going recipe, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. When a pretty dish is desired, this is by far the most elegant mode of dressing soles, as they look much better than when fried whole. {See Coloured Plate A.) Instead of rolling the fillets, they may be cut into square pieces, and arranged in the shape of a pyramid on the dish. Time.—About 10 minutes. Average costf from Is. to 2s. per pair. Seasonable at any time. Sufficienty—2 large soles for 6 persons. FBIED SOLES. 327- Ingredients.—2 middling-sized soles, hot lard or clarified dripping, egg, and bread crumbs. 3Iode.—^'k\n and carefully wash the soles, and cut off the fins, wipe them very dry, and let them remain in the cloth until it is time to dress them. Have ready some fine bread crumbs and beaten egg; dredge the soles with a little flour, brush them over with egg, and cover with bread crumbs. Put them in a deep pan, with plenty of clarified dripping or lard (when the expense is not objected to, oil is still better) heated, so that it may neither scorch the fish nor make them sodden. When they are sufficiently cooked on one side, turn them carefully, and brown them on the other : they may be considered ready when a thick smoke rises. Lift them out carefully, and lay