SAUCES, ETC. 203 Time,—x4.boiit \ hour to poach in boiling water. Sufficient, J lb. of veal or other meat, with other ingredients in pro- portion, for 1 entree. Note.—The French are noted for their skill in making forcemeats; one of the principal causes of their superiority in this respect being, that they pound all the ingredients so diligently and thoroughly. Any one with the slightest Xiretensions to refined cookery, must, in this particular, implicitly follow tho example of our friends across the Channel. FOFvCSMEAT, or QUEHELLES, FOR TUSTIiE SOUP. {See No, 189.) 423. Soyer's Recipe fop. FoROEr.iEATS.—Take a pound and a half of lean veal from the fillet, and cut it in long thin slices; scrape with a knife till nothing but the fibre remains ; put it in a mortar, pound it 10 minutes, or- until in a puree ; pass it through a wire sieve (use the remainder in stock) ; then take 1 pound of good fresh beef suet, which skin, shred, and chop very fine ; put it in a mortar and pound it; then add 6 oz. of panada (that is, bread soaked in milk and boiled till nearly dry) v/ith the suet; pound them Vv ell together, and add the veal; season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of pepper, half that of nutmeg ; work all well together ; then add four eggs by degrees, continually pounding the contents of the mortar. When well mixed, take a small piece in a spoon, and poach it in some boiling water; and if it is delicate, fii'm, and of a good flavour, it is ready for use. PBIED BBEAD CBUMBS. 424. Cut the bread into thin slices, place them in a cool wen over- night, and when thoroughly dry and crisp, roll them down into fine crumbs. Put some lard, or clarified dripping, into a frjdng-pan; bring it to the boiling-point, throw in the crumbs, and fry them very quickly. Directly they are done, lift them out with a slice, and drain them before the fire from all greasy moisture. When quite crisp, they are ready for use. The fat they are fried in should be clear, and the crumbs should not have the slightest appearance or taste of having been, in the least degree, burnt. FBIED SIPPETS OP BBEAD (for Garnishing many Dishes). 425. Cut the bread into thin slices, and stamp them out in what- ever shape you like,—rings, crosses, diamonds, &c. &c. Fry them in the same manner as the bread crumbs, in clear boiling lard, or clarified dripping, and drain them until thoroughly crisp before tha fire. When variety is desired, fry some of a pale colour, and others- of a darker hue.