MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. S44 Average cost, 4tS, 9d. Suffccient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This joint will be found very nice if rolled and stuffed, as here directed, and plainly roasted. It should be well basted, and served with a good gravy and currant jeliy. BOILED NECK OF MUTTOIT. 730. IiTGEELiENTS.—4 Ibs. of the middle, or best end of tlie neck of mutton; a little salt. Mode.—Trim oif a portion of the fat, should there be too much, and if it is to look particularly nice, the chine-bone should be sawn down, the ribs stripped halfway down, and the ends of the bones chopped off; this is, however, not necessary. Put the meat into sufficient hoiling water to cover it; when it boils, add a little salt and remove all the scum. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the water get so cool that the finger may be borne in it; then simmer very shivhj and gently until the meat is done, which will be in about 1^ hour, or rather more, reckoning from the time that it begins to simmer. Serve with turnips and caper sauce, No. 382, and pour a little of it over the meat. The turnips should be boiled with the mutton ; and, when at hand, a few carrots will also be found an improvement. These, however, if very large and thick, must be cut into long thinnish pieces, or they will not be sufficiently done by the time the mutton is ready. Garnish the dish with carrots and turnips placed alternately round the mutton. Time.—4 lbs. of the neck of mutton, about li hour. Average cost, 8|c7. per lb. g Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. ^ Seasonable at any time. The Poets ok Sheep.—The keeping of floelis seems to have been the first employment of mankind; and the most ancient sort of poetry was probably pastoral. The poem known as the Pastoral gives a picture of the Hfe of the simple shepherds of the golden age, who are supposed to have beguiled their time in singing. In all pastorals, repeated allusions are made to the *' fleecy flocks," the " milk-white lambs," and '* the tender ewes ;" indeed, the sheep occupy a position in these poems inferior only to that of the shepherds who tend them. The "nibbling sheep" has ever been a favourite of the poets, and has suppUed them with figures and similes without end. Shakspere frequently compares men to sheep. When Gloster rudely drives the lieutenant from the side of Henry YI., the poor king thus touchingly speaks of his helplessness :— " So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf: So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece. And next his throat, unto the butcher's knife." In the " Two Gentlemen of "Verona," we meet with the following humorous com- parison :— *' Froteus. The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd, the shepherd for food follows not the sheep : thou for wages foUowest thy master, thy master for wages follows not thee j therefore, thou art a sheep. "Sjpeed. Such another proof will make me cry haa'*