MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 778 spoonful of vinegar, which will assist to keep the fruit a good colour. Make a pint of syrup by recipe I^o. 1512, and when it boils, drain the gooseberries and put them in ; simmer them gently until the fruit is nicely pulped and tender, without being broken ; then dish the goose- berries on a glass dish, boil the syrup for 2 or 3 minutes, pour over the gooseberries, and serve cold. lime.—Ahout 5 minutes to boil the gooseberries in the syrup; 3 minutes to reduce the syrup. Average cost, 9c?. Sufficient,—a quart of gooseberries for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June. GOOSEBEBBY JAM. I. 1547. Ingeediekts.—To every lb. of fruit allow fib. of loaf sugar; currant-juice. 3fode.—Select red hairy gooseberries ; have them gathered in dry weather, when quite ripe, without being too soft. Weigh them ; with a pair of scissors, cut off the tops and tails, and to every 6 lbs. of fruit have ready ^ pint of red-currant juice, drawn as for jelly. Put the gooseberries and currant-juice into a preserving-pan; let them boil tolerably quickly, keeping them well stirred; when they begin to break, add to them the sugar, and keep simmering until the jam becomes firm, carefully skimming and stirring it, that it does not burn at the bottom. It should be boiled rather a long time, or it will not keep. Put it into pots (not too large); let it get perfectly cold; then cover the pots down with oiled and egged papers, as directed for red- currant jelly No. 1533. Tt7ne.—About 1 hour to boil the gooseberries in the currant-juice; from i to f hour with the sugar. Average cosf^ per lb. pot, from Gd. to 8d. Sufficient.—Allow li pint of fruit for a lb. pot. Seasonable.—Make this in June or July. II. 1548. Iis-GEEDiEi^TS.—To every 8 lbs. of red, rough, ripe gooseberries allow 1 quart of red-currant juice, 5 lbs. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Have the fruit gathered in dry weather, and cut off the tops and tails. Prepare 1 quart of red-currant juice, the same as for red- currant jelly No. 1533; put it into a preserving-pan with the sugar, and keep stirring until the latter is dissolved. Keep it boiling for about 5 minutes; skim well; then put in the gooseberries, and let