431 VEAL. and floured and fried instead of being roasted ; and any part of veal dressed in this way will be found extremely savoury and good. Time.—3 hours. Average cosfy 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonahhy with peas, from June to August. BAKEID SWEETBBEADS (an Entree). 906. Ikgeedients.—-3 sweetbreads, egg and bread crumbs, oiled butter, 3 slices of toast, brown gravy. iLToc/e.—Choose large white sweetbreads ; put them into warm water to draw out the blood, and to improve their colour ; let them remain for rather more than 1 hour; then put them into boiling water, and allow them to simmer for about 10 minutes, which renders them firm. Take them up, drain ^. ^„ . SWEETBBEADS. them, brush over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs; dip them in egg again, and then into more bread crumbs. Drop on them a little oiled butter, and put the sweet- breads into a moderately-heated oven, and let them bake for nearly f hour. Make 3 pieces of toast; place the sweetbreads on the toast, and pour round, but not over them, a good brown gravy. Time,—To soak 1 hour, to be boiled 10 minutes, baked 40 minutes. Average cost. Is. to 6s. Sufficient for an entree. Seaso?iahle.—lii full season from May to August. FBIED SWEETBBEADS a la Maitre d'Hotel (an Entree). 907. Ingkedients.—3 sweetbreads, egg and bread crumbs, J lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, rather more than i pint of Maitre d'hotel sauce ITo. 466. Mode.—So2ih the sweetbreads in warm water for an hour; then boil them for 10 minutes; cut them in slices, egg and bread crumb them, season with pepper and salt, and put them into a frying-pan, with the above proportion of butter. Keep turning them until done, which will be in about 10 minutes; dish them, and pour over them a Maitre d'hotel sauce, made by recipe No. 466. The dish may be garnished with slices of cut lemon. Time.—To soak 1 hour, to be broiled 10 minutes, to be fried about 10 minutes. Average cost. Is. to 55., according to the season. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonahle.—ln. full season from May to August.