crea:is, jellies, omelets, etc. omelet over, to make it an oval shape, and finish cooking it. To brown the top, hold the pan before the fire, or use a salamander, and turn it carefully on to a very hot dish : sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve. Time.—From 4 to 6 minutes. Average costy lOd, Sufficient for 4 personso Seasonable at any time. OMELETTE AUX CONFITUBES, or JAM OMELET. 1460. Ingeedients.—6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of apricot, strawberry, or any jam that may be preferred. Mode.—Make the omelet by recipe No. 1459, only instead of doubling it over, leave it flat in the pan. When quite firm, and nicely brown on one side, turn it carefully on to a hot dish, spread over the middle of it the jam, and fold the omelet over on each side ; sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve very quickly. A pretty dish of small omelets may be made by dividing the batter into 3 or 4 portions, and frying them separately ; they should then be spread each one with a difierent kind of preserve, and the omelets rolled over. Always sprinkle sweet omelets with sifted sugar before being sent to table. Time.—4 to 6 minutes. Average cost, Is. 2d, Si(fficie7if for 4 persons. Seasonahle at any time. OMELETTE SOUFJ^LE. 1461. Ingredients.—6 eggs, o oz. of pounded sugar, flavouring of vanilla, orange-flower water, or lemon-rind, 3 oz. of butter, 1 dessert- spoonful of rice-flour. il/oc7e.—Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, add to the former the sugar, the rice-flour, and either of the above flavourings that may be preferred, and stir these in^^redients well together. Whip the whites of the eggs, mix them lightly with the batter, and put the butter into a small frying-pan. As soon as it begins to bubble, pour the batter into it, and set the pan over a bright but gentle fire ; and when the omelet is set, turn the edges over to make it an oval shape, and slip it on to a silver dish, which has been previously well buttered. Put it in th6 oven, and bake from 12 to 15 minutes ; sprinkle finely- powdered sugar over the souflle, and serve it immediatehj. Time.—About 4 minutes in the pan ; to bake, from 12 to 15 minutes. Average cost, \s. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonahle at any time. BACHELOB'S OMEIiET. i 1462. Ingeedients.—2 or 3 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of I flour, * teacupful of milk.