69 FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. simmer for another hour. Now beat the yolks of the e^^^s well, mix with the cream (previously boiled), and strain through a hair sieve. Take the soup off the fire, put the eggs, &c. to it, and keep stirring it well. Bring it to a boil, but do not leave off stirring, or the eggs will curdle. Season with salt, and add the sugar. Time.—2i hours. Average cost^ Is. 9c?. per quart. Seasonable from May to August. Sufficient for 8 persons. Chervil.—Although the roots of this plant are poisonous, its leares are tender, and are used in salads. In antiquity it made a relishing dish, when prepared with oil, wine, and gravy. It is a native of various parts of Europe j and the species cultivated in the gardens of Paris, has beautifully frizzled leaves, II. 130. Ingredients.—5 onions, 5 heads of celery, 10 moderate-sized potatoes, 3 oz. butter, j pint of water, -\ pint of cream, 2 quarts of stock No. 105. Mode.SliQQ the onions, celery, and potatoes, and put them with the butter and water into a stewpan, and simmer for an hour. Then fill up the stewpan with stock, and boil gently till the potatoes are done, which will be in about an hour. Rub all through a tammy, and add the cream (previously boiled). Do not let it boil after the cream is put in. Ti7ne.—2^ hours. Average cost^ Is, id, per quart. Seasonahle from September to May. Sufficient for 8 persons. JVote.—This soup can be made with water instead of stock. SOUP A LA JULIElSnSTB. 131. Ingredients.—^ pint of carrots, i pint of turnips, J pint of onions, 2 or 3 leeks, i head of celery, 1 lettuce, a little sorrel and chervil, if liked, 2 oz. of butter, 2 quarts of stock No. 105. Mode.—Cut the vegetables into strips of about li inch long, and be particular they are all the same size, or some will be hard whilst the others will be done to a pulp. Cut the lettuce, sorrel, and chervil into larger pieces; fry the carrots in the butter, and pour the stock boiling to them. "When this is done, add all the other vegetables, and herbs, and stew gently for at „ ^ ° l! a^ ' XX? ^^ A.\ 4. 4-1. STEIPS 03? VEGETABLE. least an hour. Skim off all the fat, pour the soup over thin slices of bread, cut round about the size of a shilling, and serve.