777 PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. or three lighted matches, and when they have filled the hottle neck with gas, and before they go out, remove them very quickly; instantly cork the bottle closely, and dip it in bottle cement. Time,—Altogether about 8 hours. TO BOTTLE FRESH FRUIT WITH SUGAR. {Very useful in Winter.) 1544. Ingredients.—Any kind of fresh fruit; to each quart bottle allow i lb. of pounded sugar. Mode.—Let the fruit be gathered in dry weather. Pick it carefully, and drop it into clean and vert/ dry quart glass bottles, sprinkling over it the above proportion of pounded sugar to each quart. Put the corks in the bottles, and place them in a copper of cold water up to their necks, with small hay-wisps round them, to prevent the bottles from knocking together. Light the fire under, bring the water gradu- ally to boil, and let it simmer gently until the fruit in the bottles is reduced nearly one third. Extinguish the fire, and let the bottles remain in the water until it is perfectly cold; then take them out, make the corks secure, and cover them with melted resin or wax. Time,—About ^ hour from the time the water commences to boil. TO FROST HOLLY-LEAVES, for garnishing and decorating Dessert and Supper Dishes. 1545. —Ingeedients.—Sprigs of holly, oiled butter, coarsely-pow- dered sugar. 3Iode.—Procure some nice sprigs of holly ; pick the leaves from the stalks, and wipe them with a clean cloth free from all moisture; then place them on a dish near the fire, to get thoroughly dry, but not too near to shrivel the leaves; dip them into oiled butter, sprinkle over them some coarsely-powdered sugar, and dry them before the fire. They should be kept in a dry place, as the least damp would spoil their appearance. Time.—About 10 minutes to dry before the fire. Seasonable.—These may be made at any time; but are more suitable for winter garnishes, when fresh flowers are not easily obtained. COMPOTE OF GOOSEBERRIES. 154^. Ingkedients.—Syrup made by recipe No. 1512; to 1 pint of syrup allow nearly a quart of gooseberries. Mode.—Top and tail the gooseberries, which should not be very ripe, and pour over them some boiling water; then take them out, and plunge them into cold water, with which has been mixed a table-