MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 810 over the meat, and let it remain for another 12 hours; then nih in the salt. Turn daily in the liquor for a fortnight, soak it for a few hours in water, dry with a cloth, cover with a coarse paste, put a little water at the bottom of the pan, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. If it is not covered with a paste, be careful to put the beef into a deep vessel, and cover with a plate, or it vvill be too crisp. During the time the meat is in the oven it should be turned once or twice. Time.—4 hours. Average cost, 7cl. per lb. Seasonable at any time. Eaking Meat.—Bating exerts some unexplained influence on meat, rendering it less ' savoury and less agreeable than meat which has been roasted. "Those wlio have • travelled in Germany and France,'* writes Mr. Lewis, one of our most popular scientific authors, "must have repeatedly marvelled at the singular uniformity in the flavour, or want of flavour, of the various 'roasts' served up at the table-d'hote." The general explanation is, that the German and French meat is greatly inferior in quality to that of England and Holland, owing to the inferiority of pasturage ; and doubtless this is one cause, but it is not the chief cause. The meat is inferior, but the cooking is mainly at fault. The meat is scarcely ever roasted, because there is no coal, and firewood is expensive. The meat is therefore baked; and the consequence of this baking is, that no meat is eatable or eaten, with its own gravy, but is always accompanied by some sauco more or less piquant. The Germans generally believe that in Jingland we eat our beef and mutton almost raw j they shudder at our gravy, as if it were so much blood. jl STEWED BEEF or KUMP STEAK (an Entree). ' 666. Ikgeedients.—About 2 lbs. of beef or rump steak, 3 onions, 2 turnips, 3 carrots, 2 or 3 oz. of butter, i pint of water, 1 teaspoonful , of salt, I do. of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of ] flour. ' 3Iode.—Have the steaks cut tolerably thick and rather lean ; divide them into convenient-sized pieces, and fry tliem in the butter a nice brown on both sides. Cleanse and pare the vegetables, cut the onions ■ and carrots into thin slices, and the turnips into dice, and fry these in the same fat that the steaks were done in. Put all into a saucepan, add i pint of water, or rather more should it be necessary, and simmer ■ very gently for 2| or 3 hours ; when nearly done, skim well, add salt, , pepper, and ketchup in the above proportions, and thicken with a : tablespoonful of flour mixed with 2 of cold water. Let it boil up for ' a minute or two after the thickening is added, and serve. hen a i vegetable-scoop is at hand, use it to cut the vegetables in fanciful \ shapes, and tomato, Ilarvey^s sauce, or walnut-liquor may be used to ■ flavour the gravy. It is less rich if stewed the previous day, so that !: the fat may be taken off when cold; when wanted for table, it will i merely require warming through. Time.—3 hours. Average cost. Is. per lb. Suficient for 4 or 5 persons. ' Seasonable at any time.