680 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. and in baking it, let tlie oven be very hot, or the casserole will probably break. Time.—About f hour to swell the rice. Sufficient for 2 moderate-sized casseroles. Seasonable at any time. SWEET CASSEBOLE OP BICE (an Entremets). 1351. I]S-GEED1ENTS.—H- lb. of rice, 3 pints of milk, sugar to taste, flavouring of bitter almonds, 3 oz. of butter, the yolks of 3 eggs. Ifocle.—This is made in precisely the same manner as a savoury casserole, only substituting the milk and sugar for the stock and salt. Put the milk into a stewpan, with sufficient essence of bitter almonds to flavour it well; then add the rice, which should be washed, picked, and drained, and let it swell gradually in the milk over a slow fire. "When it is tender, stir in the sugar, butter, and yolks of eggs; butter a mould, press in the rice, and proceed in exactly the same manner as in recipe No. 1350. When the casserole is ready, fill it with a compote of any fruit that may be preferred, or with melted apricot-jam, and serve. Time.—From % to 1 hour to swell the rice, i to | hour to bake the casserole. Average cost, exclusive of the compote or jam, l5. 9f?. Sufficient for 2 casseroles. Seasonable at any time. PBEHCH BICE PUDDING, or GATEAU DE BIZ. 1352. Ingeedieijtts.—To every i lb. of rice allow 1 quart of milk, the rind of 1 lemon, i teaspoonful of salt, sugar to taste, 4 oz. of butter, 6 eggs, bread crumbs. 3fode.—Put the milk into a stewpan with the lemon-rind, and let it infuse for i hour, or until the former is well flavoured; then take out the peel; have ready the rice washed, picked, and drained; put it into the milk, and let it gradually swell over a very slow fire. Stir in the butter, salt, and sugar, and when properly sweetened, add the yolks of the eggs, and then the whites, both of which should be well beaten, and added separately to the rice. Butter a mould, fctrew in some fine bread crumbs, and let them be spread equally over it; then carefully pour in the rice, and bake the pudding in a sloiv oven for 1 hour. Turn it out of the mould, and garnish the dish with preserved cherries, or any bright-coloured jelly or jam. This pudding would be exceedingly nice, flavoured with essence of Tanilla.