593 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. always be prepared a few hours beforeliand, and when required for use, the herbs laid lightly over it. Average cost^ 9d. for a salad for 5 or 6 persons. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle from the end of September to March. Sat-ads,—Salads are raw vegetables, of which, among us, the lettuce is the most generally used; several others, however, such as cresses, celery, onions, Leetvoot, &c., are occasionally employed. As vegetables eaten in a raw state are apt to ferment on the stomach, and as they have very little stimulative power uiDon that organ, they are usually dressed with some condiments, such as pepper, vinegar, salt, mustard, and oil. Eespecting the use of these, medical men disagree, especially in reference to oil, which is condemned by some and recommended by others. POTATO SALAD. 1154- Ingiiedients.—10 or 12 cold boiled potatoes, 4 tablespoonfuls of tarragon or plain vinegar, 6 tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonfui of minced parsley. Mode.—Cut the potatoes into slices about \ inch in thickness; put these into a salad-bowl with oil and vinegar in the above proportion ; season with pepper, salt, and a teaspoonfui of minced parsley; stir the salad well, that all the ingredients may. be thoroughly incorpo- rated, and it is ready to serve. This should be made two or three hours before it is wanted for table. Anchovies, olives, or pickles may be added to this salad, as also slices of cold beef, fowl, or turkey. Seasonahle at any time. CHICKEN SAIiAD.-(See "No. 931.) , GROUSE SALAD.-CSee K"o. 1026.) LOBSTER SALAD.-(See I^"o. 272.) TO BOIL SPINACH (Englisli Mode). 11.55. Ingredients.—2 pailfuls of spinach, 2 heaped tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 oz. of butter, pepper to taste. i!/oi7^.—Pick the spinach carefully, and see that no stalks or weeds are left amongst it; wash it in several waters, and, to prevent it being gritty, act in the following manner:— Have ready two large pans or tubs filled with water; put the spinach into one of these, and spinach garnished with thoroughly wash it; then, with the hands, take ckoutons. out the spinach, and put it into the other iuh of water (by this means all the grit will be left at the bottom of the tub); wash it again, and, should it not be perfectly free from dirt, repeat the process. Put it into a very large saucepan, with about i pint of water, just sufficient to keep the spinach from burning, and the above proportion of salt. Press it down frequently with a wooden spoon, that it may be done equally; 2q