791 PRESEPwYES^ COKEECTIONAEY, ETC. ■who cultivated them with care, and probably introduced some of their best sorts into this island, to which others were added by the inhabitants of the monasteries, TheDutcIi and Fleminfjs, as well as the French, have excelled in the cultivation of the pear, and most of the late varieties introduced are from France and Flanders. The pear is a hardy tree, and a longer liver than the apple : it has been known to exist for centuries. There are now about 150 varieties of this fruit. Though pei-fectly wholesome when ripe, the pear is not so when green ; but in this state it is fit for stewing. An agreeable bevei'age, called perry, is made from pears, and the varieties which are least fit for eating make the best perry, PRESEBVED PBABS. 1575. Ingee-dients.—Jargonelle pears ; to every lb. of sugar allow I pint of water. J/b£?e.—Procure some Jargonelle pears, not too ripe; put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer them till rather tender, but do not allow them to break; then put them into cold water. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes, skim well, put in the pears, and simmer them gently for 5 minutes. Eepeat the simmering for 3 successive days, taking care not to let the fruit break, i'he last time of boiling, the syrup should be made rather richer, and the fruit boiled for 10 minutes. "When the pears are done, drain them from the syrup, and dry them in the sun, or in a cool oven; or they may be kept in the syrup, and dried as they are wanted. Time.—h hour to simmer the pears in water, 20 minutes in the syrup. Average cost^ Id. to 2d. each. - Seasonahle,—Most plentiful in September and October. STEWED PEARS. 1576. Ingkedie^tts.—8 large pears, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 6 cloves, 6 whole allspice, i pint of water, 5 pint of port wine, a few drops of prepared cochineal. Ifode.—TsLve the pears, halve them, remove the cores, and leave the stalks on ; put them into a lined saucepan with the above ingredients, and let them simmer very gently until tender, which will be in from 3 to 4 hours, according to the quality of the pears. They should be watched, and, when done, carefully lifted out on to a glass dish without breaking them. Boil up the syrup quickly for 2 or 3 minutes ; allow it to cool a little, pour it over the pears, and let them get per- fectly cold. To improve the colour of the fruit, a few drops of pre- pared cochineal may be added, which rather enhances the beauty of this dish. The fruit must not be boiled fast, but only simmered, and watched that it be not too much done.