MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 320 sheep." The sheep may be either with or without horns ; when present, however, they have always this peculiarity, that they spring from a triangular base, are spiral in form, and lateral, at the side of the head, in situation. Tiia fleece of the sheep is of two sorts, either short and harsh, or soft and woolly ; the wool always preponderating in an exact ratio to the care, attention, and amount of domestication bestowed on the animal. The generic peculiarities of the sheep are the triangular and spiral form of the horns, always larger in the male when j^rescnt, but absent in the most cultivated species ; having sinuses at the base of all the toes of the four feet, with two rudimentar}'' hoofs on the fore legs, two inguinal teats to the udder, with a short tail in the wild breed, but of varying length in the domesticated ; have no incisor teeth in the upper jaw, but in their place a hard elastic cushion along the margin of the gum, on which the animal nips and breaks the herbage on which it feeds ; in the lower jaw tliere are eight incisor teeth and six molars on each side of both jaws, making in all 82 teeth. The fleece consists of tv;o coats, one to keep the animal warm, the other to carry off the water without wetting the skin. The first is of wool, the weight and fineness of which depend on the quality of the pastm-e and the care bestowed on the flock ; the other of hair, that pierces the wool and overlaps it, and is in excess in exact proportion to the badness of the keep and inattention with which the animal is treated. 680. The great Object op th3 Grazier is to procure an animal that will yield the greatest pecuniary return in the shortest time ; or, in other words, soonest convert grass and tm'nips into good mutton and fine fleece. All sheep will not do this alike ; some, like men, are so restless and irritable, that no system of feeding, however good, will develop their frames or make them fat. The system adopted by the breeder to obtain a valuable animal for the butcher, is to enlarge the capacity and functions of the digestive organs, and reduce those of the head and chest, or the mental and respiratory organs. In the first place, the mind should be tranquillized, and those spaces that can never produce animal fibre curtailed, and greater room afforded, as in the abdomen, for those that can. And as nothing militates against the fattening process so much as restlessness, the chief wish of the grazier is to find a dull, indolent sheep, one who, instead of frisking himself, lea2:>ing his wattles, or even condescending to notice the butting gambols of his silly companions, silently fills his paunch with pasture, and then seeking a shady nook, indolently and luxuriously chews his cud with closed eyes and blissful satisfaction, only rising vv^hen his delicious repast is ended, to proceed silently and without emotion to repeat the pleasing process of laying in more provender, and then returning to his dreamy siesta to renew the delightful task of rumination. Such animals are said to have a li/mphcdic temperament, and are of so kindly a nature, that on good pasturage they may be said to grow daily. The Leicestershire breed is tlie best example of this lymphatic and contented animal, and the active Orkney, who is half goat in his habits, of the restless aiid unprofitable. The rich pasture of our midland counties