471 POULTRY. 901. Ingeedients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, 1 pint of 960. Ikgeedients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 2 gz. of butter, little curry-powder and salt; fry these nicely, pile them high in the centre of the dish, cover with the onion, and serve with a cut lemon on a plate. Care must he taken that the onions are not greasy: they should be quite dry, but not burnt. Ti7ne,—6 minutes to fry the onions, 10 minutes to fry the fowl. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl, 4J. Seasonable during the winter months. The Speckled HAMBUBG.--Of the specliled, or spangled Hamburg, whicli is a favourite breed witb many persons, there are two Tarieties,—the golden-speckled and the silver-speckled. The general colour of the former is golden, or orange-yel- low, each feather having a glossy dark brown or black tip, i)articularly remark- able on the hackles of the cock and the wing-coverts, and also on the darker feathers of the breast. The female is yellow, or orange-brown, the feathers in like manner being margined with black. The Silver-si:)eckied variety is distin- guished by the ground-colour of the plumage being of a silver-white, ynth. perhaps a tinge of straw-ycilow, every leather being margined with a semi-lunar mark of glossy black. Both of these varieties are extremely beautiful, the hens laying freely. First-rate birds com- mand a high price. FOWL SAUTS WITH PBAS (an IDntree). pepper, salt, and pounded mace to taste, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, -I pint of weak stock, 1 pint of green peas, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Cut the fowl into nice pieces; put the butter into a stev/- pan ; sautez or fry the fowl a nice brown colour, previously sprinkling it with pepper, salt, and pounded mace. Dredge in the flour, shake the ingredients well round, then add the stock and peas, and stev/ till the latter are tender, which will be in about 20 minutes; put in the pounded sugar, and serve, placing the chicken round, and the peas in the middle of the dish. .When liked, mushrooms may be substituted for the peas. IVy??e.—xiltogether 40 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the fovv^l, Id, Seasonable from June to August. BOUBIISr A LA BSIlSrS (an Entree). {M, Tide's Recipe.) Bechamel No. 367, salt and cayenne to taste, egg and bread crumbs. BPECKLED HAJ.1BUEGS.