PUDDINGS AND PASTRY, 645 FOLKESTOITH PUDDING-PIES. 1277. Ingeedients.—1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of ground rice, 3 oz. of butter, i lb. of sugar, flavouring of lemon-peel or bay-leaf, 6 eggs, puff-paste, currants. Mode.—Infuse 2 laurel or bay leaves, or the rind of i lemon, in the milk, and wlien it is well flavoured, strain it, and add the rice; boil these for ^ hour, stirring all the time; then take them off the fire, stir in the butter, sugar, and eggs, and let these latter be well beaten before they are added to the other ingredients; when nearly cold, line some patty-pans with puff-paste, fill with the custard, strew over each a few currants, and bake from 20 to 25 minutes in a moderate oven* Time,—20 to 25 minutes. Average costy Is. Id, Svficient to fill a dozen patty-pans. Seasonable at any time. FBUIT TUBNOVEHS (suitable for Pic-l^ricsj. 1278. IxGEEDiENTS.—Puff-paste 1^0. 1206, any kind of fruit, sugar to taste. IIode.—'Moke some puff-paste by recipe No. 1206 ; roll it out to the thickness of about i inch, and cut it out in pieces of a circular form ; pile the fruit on half of the paste, sprinkle over some sugar, wet the edges and turn the paste over. Press the ecl>;es together, ornament them,"and brush the turnovers over with the white of an egg ; sprinkle over sifted sugar, and bake on tins, in a brisk oven, for about 20 minutes. Instead of putting the fruit in raw, it may be boiled down I with a little sugar first, and then inclosed in the crust; or jam, of any kind, may be substituted for fresh fruit. Time.—20 minutes. Sufficient—^2. lb. of puff-paste will make a dozen turnovers. Seasonable at any time. GEBMAIT PUDDIHa. 1279. Ingeediei^ts.—2 teaspoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of arrow- root, 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, the rind of h lemon, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of brandy. 3fode.—Boil the milk with the lemon-rind until well flavoured; tlien strain it, and mix with it the flour, arrowroot, butter, and sugar. Boil these ingredients for a few minutes, keeping them well stirred; then take them off the fire and mix with them the eggs, yolks and whites, j beaten separately and added separately. Boil some sugar to candy ; line a mould with this, put in the brandy, then the mixture; tie dowa