MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. S30 2. Breast; 3. Shoulder; 4. Loin; 5. Leg; 1,2,3. Fore Quarter. months witii her young, about 152 days, or close on 22 weeks. The weanmg season commences on poor lands, about the end of the thu-d month^ but on rich pasture not till the close of the fourth—sometimes longer. 699. From the large Proportion of Moisture or Fluids contained in the tissues of all young animals, the flesh of lamb and veal is much more prone, in close, damp weather, to become tainted and spoil than the flesh of the more mature, drier, and closer-textured beef and mutton. Among epicures, -the most delicious sorts of lamb are those of the South-Down breed, known by their black feet; and of these, those v/hich have been exclusively suckled on the milk of the parent ewe, are considered the finest. Next to these in estimation are those fed on the milk of • several dams, and last of all, though the fattest, the grass-fed lamb ; this, how- m ever, implies an age much greater than either of the others. 700. Lamb, in the early part of the season, how- ever reared, is in London, and indeed generally, sold in quarters, divided with eleven ribs to the fore- quarter ; but, as the season advances, these are sub- divided into two, and the hind-quarter in the same manner ; the first consisting of the shoulder, and the neck an.d breast; the latter, of the leg and the loin,—as shown in the cut illustrative of mutton. As lamb, from the juicy nature of its flesh, is espe- cially liable to spoil in unfavourable weather, it should be frequently wiped, so as to remove any moistui-» that may form on it. 701. In the Purchasing of Lamb for the Table, there are certain signs by which the expe- rienced judgment is able to form an accurate opinion whether the animal has been lately slaughtered, and whether the joints possess that condition of fibre indicative of good and wholesome meat. The first of these doubts may be solved satisfactorily by the bright and dilated appearance of the eye; the quality of the fore- quarter can always be guaranteed by the blue or healthy ruddiness of the jugular, or vein of the neck ; while the rigidity of the knuckle, and the firm, compact feel of the kidney, will answer in an equally positive manner for the integrity of the hind-quarter. 702. Mode of cutting up a Side of Lamb in London.—1, 1. Eibs;