272 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Many, indeed, are injurious to him ; but most of tliem, in some shape or other, he turns to his service. Of these there is none he has made more subservient to his purposes than the common ox, of which there is scarcely a part that lie has not been able to convert into some useful purpose. Of the horns he makes drinking-vessels, knife-handles, combs, and boxes; and when they are softened by means of boiling water, he fashions them into transparent plates for lan- terns. This invention is ascribed to King Alfred, who is said to have been the first to use them to preserve his candle time-measures from the wind. Glue is made of the cartilages, gristles, and the finer pieces of the parings and cuttings of the hides. Their bone is a cheap substitute for ivory. The thhi- nest of the calf-skins are manufactured into vellum. Their blood is made the basis of Prussian blue, and saddlers use a fine sort of thread prepared from their sinews. The hair is used in various valuable manufactures; the suet, fat, and tallow, are moulded into candles ; and the milk and cream of the cow yield butter and cheese. Thus is every part of this animal valuable to man, who has spared no jDains to bring it to the highest state of perfection. 590. Amoxg the various Breeds of the Ox, upon which man hafs bestowed his highest powers of culture, there is now none takes a higlier place than that known by the name of Skort-Horns. From the earliest f.ges, Great Britain has been distinguished for the excellence of her native breeds of cattle, and there are none in England that have obtained greater celebrity than those which have this name, and which originated, about seventy years ago, on the banks of the Tecs. Thence they have spread into the valleys of the Tweed; thence to the Lothians, in Scotland; and south- ward, into the fine pastures of England. They are now esteemed the SEOKT-UOESr GOV/. tiUORT-nOEN BULL. most profitable breed of cattle, as there is no animal which attains sooner to maturity, and none that supplies meat of a superior quality. The value of some of the improved breeds is something enormous. At the sale of Mr. Charles Colling, a breeder in Yorkshire, in 1810, his bull Comet'* sold for 1,000 guineas. At the sale of Earl Spencer s herd in 1846, 104 cows, heifers, and calves, with nineteen bulls, fetched £8,468. 5s. ; being an average of £(^8. 17s. apiece. The value of such animals is scarcely to be estimated by