709 CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. remove every particle of scum as it rises. When it is well skimmed, boil it very gently for 6 or 7 hours, or until the liquor is reduced rather more than half; then strain it through a sieve into a basin, and put it in a cool place to set. As the liquor is strained, measure it, to ascertain the proportion for the jelly, allowing something for the sediment and fat at the top. To clarify it, carefully remove all the fat from the top, pour over a little warm water, to wash away any that may remain, and wipe the jelly with a clean cloth ; remove the jelly from the sediment, put it into a saucepan, and, supposing the quantity to be a quart, add to it 6 oz. of loaf sugar, the shells and well-whisked whites of 5 eggs, and stir these ingredients together cold; set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it heginsto tcarm. Let it boil about 10 minutes after it rises to a head, then throw in a teacupful of cold water; let it boil 5 minutes longer, then take the saucepan ofi^, cover it closely, and let it remain I hour near the fire. Dip the jelly-bag into hot water, wring it out quite dry, and fasten it on to a stand or the back of a chair, which must be placed near the fire, to prevent the jelly from setting before it has run through the bag. Place a basin underneath to receive the jelly; then pour it into the bag, and should it not be clear the first time, run it through the bag again. This stock is the foundation of all really good jelliesj which may be varied in innumerable ways, by colouring and flavouring with liqueurs, and by moulding it with fresh and preserved fruits. To insure the jelly being firm when turned out, i oz. of isinglass clarified might be added to the above proportion of stock. Substitutes for calf *s feet are now frequently used in making jellies, which lessen the expense and trouble in preparing this favourite dish; isinglass and gelatine being two of the principal materials employed; but, although they may look as nicely as jellies made from good stock, they are never so delicate, having very often an un- pleasant flavour, somewhat resembling glue, particularly when made with gelatine. Time.—Khowi 6 hours to boil the feet for the stock; to clarify it,— i hour to boil, i- hour to stand in the saucepan covered. Average cosf.—Calf *s feet may be purchased for 6c7. each when veal is in full season, but more expensive when it is scarce. Sufficient—2 calf's feet should make 1 quart of stock. Seasonable from Mai'ch to October, but may be had all the year. How TO MAKE A Jelly-bag.—The very stovit flannel called double-mill, used iov ironing-blankets, is the best material for a jelly-bag: those of home manufacture are the only ones to be relied on for thoroughly clearing the jelly. Care should be taken that the seam of the bag be stitched twice, to secure it against unequal filtration. The most convenient mode of using the bag is to tie it upon a hoop the exact size of the outside ot its mouth and, to do this, strings should be sewu rouud it at equal distances, Tho