659 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. pieces, soak tliem in a little brandy, and lay them cross-barred in a mould until full. Make a custard with the above proportion of milk and eggs, flavouring it with nutmeg or lemon-rind; fill up the mould with it; tie it dov/n with a cloth, and boil or steam it for an hour. Serve with a little of the custard poured over, to which has been added a tablespoonful of brandy. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the pudding, 6^. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. NESSELHODS PUDDING. {A fasliionaUe iced ])udding—Careme's Pi^eciioe.) I^^GEEDIENTS.—40 chestuuts, 1 lb. of sugar, flavouring of vanilla, 1 pint of cream, the yolks of 12 eggs, 1 glass of Maraschino, 1 oz. of candied citron, 2 oz. of currants, 2 oz. of stoned raisins, i pint of whipped cream, 3 eggs. Mode.—Blanch the chestnuts in boiling water, remove the husks, and pound them in a mortar until perfectly smooth, adding a few spoonfuls of syrup. Then rub them through a fine sieve, and miii them in a basin with a pint of syrup made from 1 lb. of sugar, clari- fied, and flavoured with vanilla, 1 pint of cream, and the yolks of 12 eggs. Set this mixture over a slow fire, stirring it without ceasing^ and just as it begins to boil, take it off and pass it through a tammy. When it is cold, put it into a freezing-pot, adding the Maraschino, and make the mixture set; then add the sliced citron, the currants, and stoned raisins (these two latter should be soaked the day previously in Maraschino and sugar pounded with vanilla); the whole thus mingled, add a plateful of whipped cream mixed with the whites of 3 eggs, beaten to a froth with a little syrup. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put it into a pineapple-shaped mould; close the lid, place it again in the freezing-pan, covered over with pounded ice and saltpetre, and let it remain until required for table; thei? turn the pudding out, and serve. Ti^ne,—4 hour to freeze the mixture. Seasonable from October to February. BAKED OBANGE PUDDING. 1314. Ingeedients.—6 oz. of stale sponge cake or bruised ratafias, 6 oranges, 1 pint of milk, 6 eggs, i lb. of sugar. Mode,—Bruise the sponge cake or ratafias into fine crumbs, and pour upon them the milk, which sh(Tuld be boiling. Eub the rinds of 2 of the oranges on sugar, and add this, with the juice of the remainder, to the other ingredients. Beat up the eggs, stir them in, sweeten to 2 u 2