HI FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. Flanders spinach, known by its large leaves. Jliey all foi*m a useful ingredient in soup; but the leaves are sometimes boiled alone, mashed, and eatcu as greens. TAPIOCA SOUP. Ingredients.—r5 oz. of tapioca, 2 quarts of stock No. 105 or 106. 3fode.—Put the tapioca into cold stock, and bring it gradually to a boil. Simmer g:ently till tender, md serve. Ti77ie,—Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, Is. or 6d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Tapiocx.—This excellent farinaeeoua food is :he produce of the pith of the cassava- tree, and is made in the East Indies, and also in Brazil. It is, by washing, procured »s a starch Irom the tree, then dried, either in the sun or on plates of hot iron, and afterwards broken into grains, in which form it is imported into this country. Its nutritive pro- perties are larg-,, and as a food for persons of delicate digestion, or for children, it is in great estimation. "No amylaceous substance," says Dr. Christison, is so much relished by infants about the time of weaning; and in them it is less apt to become sour during digestion than any other farinaceous food, even arrowroot not excepted." TURNIP SOUP. 157. Ingkedients.—3 oz. of butter, 9 good-sized turnips, 4 onions, 2 quarts of stock No. 106, seasoning to taste. 3fode.—Me[t the butter in the stewpan, but do not let it boil; wash, drain, and slice the turnips and onions very thin; put them in the butter, with a teacupful of stock, and stew very gently for an hour. Then add the remainder of the stock, and simmer another hour. Rub it through a tammy, put it back into the stew- pan, but do not let it boil. Serve very hot. 2Yme.—2^ hours. Average cost, 8d, per quart. Seasonable from October to March. Si/fficient for 8 persons. Note.—By adding a little cream, this soup will be much improved. Tke ruRNiP.—Although turnips grow wild in England, they arc not the original of the cultivated vegetable made use of in this country. In ancient times they were grown for cattle by the Eomans, and in Germany and the Low Countries they have from time immemorial been raised for the same purpose. In their cultivated state, they are generally supposed to have been intro- duced to England from Hanover, in the time of George 1.; but this has been doubted, as (xeorge II. caused a description of the Norfolk system to be sent to his flanoverian subjects, for their enlightenment in the art of turnip culture. As a culinary vegetable, it is excellent, whether eaten alone, mashed, or mixed with soups and itews. Its nutritious matter, however, is small, being only 42 parts in 1,000. VEQETABLE-MAimOW SOUP. 158. Ingredients.—4 young vegetable marrows, or more, if very small, J pint of cream, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 quarts of white stock, No. 107. a