DUTIES OF THE LAUNDRY-MAID. 1011 first, in one water, and rinsed out in a second; and afterwards boiled for two hours in water in which a little soda is dissolved. When taken out, they should be rinsed in cold water, and laid out or hung up to dry. 2383. Silk handkerchiefs require to be washed alone. When they contain snuff; they should be soaked by themselves in lukewarm water two or three hours; they should be rinsed out and put to soak with the others in cold crater for an hour or two; then washed in lukewarm water, being soaped as they are washed. If this does not remove all stains, they should be washed a SGCond time in similar water, and, when finished, rinsed in soft water in which a handful of cdmmon salt has been dissolved. In washing stuff or woollen dresses, the band at the waist and the lining at the bottom should be removed, and.wherever it is gathered into folds; and, in furniture, the hems and gatherings. A black silk dress, if very dirty, must "be washed; but, if only soiled, soaking for four-and-twenty hours will do ; if old and rustj, a pint of common spirits should be mixed with each gallon of water, which is an i'.npx'ovement under a^iy circumstances. AVhether soaked or washed, it should be hung up to drain, and dried without wringing. 2384. Satin and silk ribbons, both white and coloured, may* be cleaned in the same manner. 2385. Silks, when washed, should be dried in the shade, on a linen-horse, taking care that they are kept smooth and unwrinkled. If black or blue, they will be improved if laid again on the table, when dry, and sponged with gin, , or v/hiskey, or other white spirit. 2386. The operations should be concluded by rinsing the tubs, cleaning the coppers, scrubbing the floors of the washing-house, and restoring everything to order and cleanliness. 23S7. Thursday and . Friday, in a laundry in full employ, are usually devoted to mangling, starching, and ironing. 2388. Linen, cotton, and other fabrics, after being washed and dried, are made smooth and glossy by mangling and by ironing. The mangling process, which is simply passing them between rollers subjected to a very considerable pressure, produced by weight, is confined to sheets, towels, table-linen, and similar articles, which are without folds or plaits. Ironing is necessary to smooth body-linen, and made-up articles of delicate texture or gathered into folds. The mangle is too well known to need descr.'ption. 2389. Jro»%.—The irons cor.sist of the common flat-iron, which is of cUfferent sizes, Tarj.ing from 4 to 10 inches in length, triangular in form, and from 2^ to 4^ inches iu'svidth at the broad end; the oval iron, vihich is used for more delicate articleg j and the box-iron, which is hollow, and heated by.a red-hot iron inserted into the box. The ItaUan iron is a hollow tube, smooth on the outside, and raised on a slender pedestiil with a.footstalk. Into the hollow cylinder a red-hot iron is pushed, which heats it; and 3 T 2