74 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. butter or dripping, salt and pepper to taste, oatmeal for thickening* 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Chop the cabbage very fine, thicken the water with oatmeal, put in the cabbage and butter, or dripping; season and simmer for li hour. It can be made sooner by blanching and mashing the greens, adding any good liquor that a joint has been boiled in, and then further thicken with bread or pounded biscuit. Trme—l^ hour. Average cost, l^d. per quart. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Savoy.—This is a close-hearted wrinMe-leaved cabbage, sweet and tender, especially the'middle leaves, and in season from November to spring. The yeUow species bears hard weather without injury, whilst the dwarf kind are improved and rendered more tender by frost. PARSmP SOUP. 141. IiTGREDiEFTS.—1 lb. of sliced parsnips, 2 oz. of butter, salt and cayenne to taste, 1 quart of stock l^^o. 106. Mode.—Put the parsnips into the stewpan with the butter, which has been previously melted, and simmer them till quite tender. Then add nearly a pint of stock, and boil together for half an hour. Pass all through a fine strainer, and put to it the remainder of the stock. Season, boil, and serve immediately. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 6d. per quart. Seasonable from October to April. Sufficient for 4 persons. The Paesnip.—This is a biennial plant, with a root like a carrot, which, in nutritiv-e and saccharine matter, it nearly equals. It is a native of Britain, and, in its wild state, may be found, in many parts, growing by the road-sides. It is also to be found, generally distributed over Europe; and, in Catholic countries, is mostly used with salt fish, in Lent. In Scotland it forms an excellent dish, when beat up with butter and potatoes; it is, also, excellent when fried. In Ireland it is found to yield, in conjunction with the hop, a pleasant beverage; and it contains as much spirit as the carrot, and makes an excellent wine. Its proportion of nutritive matter is 99 parts in 1,000 j 9 being mucilage and 90 sugar. PEA SOUP (QBEEIT). 142. Ikgeedients.—3 pints of green peas, J lb. of butter, 2 or three thin slices of ham, 6 onions sliced, 4 shredded lettuces, the crumb of 2 French rolls, 2 handfuls of spinach, 1 lump of sugar, 2 quarts of common stock. Mode.—Put the butter, ham, 1 quart of the peas, onions, and let- tuces, to a pint of stock, and simmer for an hour; then add the remainder of the stock, with the crumb of the French rolls, and boil for another hour. Now boil the spinach, and squeeze it very dry. Rub the soup through a sieve, and the spinach with it, to colour it.