HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. and leave it for somo little time to'dry. "When pcrfectlj^ dry, brush it off qrdte clean with a soft plate-brush, and polish the plate with a dry leather. If the jolate be very dirty, or much tarnished, spirits of wine will bo found to answer better than the vrater for mixing the paste. Plate-ra,gs for daily use. 2318. Boil soft rag-s (nothing is better for the purpose than the tops of old cotton stockings) in a mixture of new milk and hartshorn powder, in the pro- jDortion of 1 oz. of powder to a pint of milk ; boil them for 5 minutes; wring them as soon as they are taken out, for a moment, in cold water, and dry them before the fire. AVith these rags rub the plate briskly as soon as it has been well washed and dried after daily use. A most beautiful deep polish will be produced, and the plate will require nothing more than merely to be dusted with a leather or a dry soft cloth, before it is again put on the table. 2319. For waiting at table, the housemaid should be neatly and cleanly dressed, and, if possible, her dress made with closed sleeves, the large open ones dipping and falling into everything on the table, and being very much in the way. She should not wear creaking boots, and should move about the room as noiselessly as possible, anticipating people's wants by handing thorn things without being asked for them, and altogether be as quiet as possible. It will be needless here to repeat what we have already said respecting waiting at table, in the duties of the butler and footman : rules that are good to be observed by them, are equally good for the parlour-maid or housemaid. 2320. The housemfiid having announced that dinner is on the table, will hand the soup, fish, meat, or side-dishes to the different members of the family; but in families who do not spend much of the day together, they will probably prefer being alone at dinner and breakfast: the housemaid will be required, after all are helped, if her master does not wish her to stay in the room, to go on with her work of cleaning up in the pantry, and answer the bell when rung. In this case she will jDlace a pile of plates on the table or a dumb- waiter, within reach of her master and mistress, and leave the room. 2321. Dinner over, the housemaid removes the plates and dishes on the tray, places the dirty knives and forks in the basket prepared for them, folds up the napkins in the ring which indicates by which member of the family it has been used, brushes off the crumbs on the hand- tray kept for the purpose, folds up the table- cloth in the folds already made, and places it in the linen-press to be sm.oothed out. After every meal the table should be rubbed, all marks from hot plates removed, and the table-cover thrown over, and the room restored to its usual order. If the family retire to the drawing- room, or any other room, it is a good x^ractice to throw up the sash to admiii fresh air and ventilate the room, ;