BREAD, BlttUUITS, AND CAKES. 849 BISCUIT POWDER, generaUy used for Infants' Food. 1737. This powder may be purchased in tin canisters, and may also be prepared at home. Dry the biscuits well in a slow oven; roll them and grind them with a rolling-pin on a clean board, until they are reduced to powder; sift it through a close hair sieve, and it is fit for use. It shou-ld be kept in well-covered tins, and in a dry place. ARROWilOOT BISCUITS OR DROPS. 1738. Ingredients.—I lb. of butter, 6 eggs, i lb. of fiour, 6 oz. of arrowroot, i lb. of pounded loaf sugar. Ifode.—Beat the butter to a cream; whisk the eggs to a strong froth, add them to the butter, stir in the flour a little at a time, and beat the mixture well. Break down all the lumps from the arrowroot, and add that with the sugar to the other ingredients. Mix all well together, drop the dough on a buttered tin, in pieces the size of a shilling, and bake the biscuits about i hour in a slow oven. Ti77ie.—5 hour. Average cost^ 2s, 6d Sufficient to make from 3 to 4 dozen biscuits. Seasonable at any time. NICE BREAKFAST CAKES. 1739. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of flour, i teaspoonful of tartaric acid, J teaspoonful of salt, \ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 1| break- fast-cupful of milk, 1 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, 2 eggs. ) Mode.—These cakes are made in the same manner as the soda bread I No. 1722, with the addition of eggs and sugar. Mix the flour, tar- taric acid, and salt well together, taking care that the two latter ingredients are reduced to the finest powder, and stir in the sifted sugar, which should also be very fine. Dissolve the soda in the milk, add the eggs, which should be well T,'hisked, and with this liquid work the flour, &c. into a light dough. Divide it into small cakes, put them into the oven immediately, and bake for about 20 minutes. . Time.—20 minutes. COCOA-NUT BISCUITS OR CAKES. 1740. Ikgeedients.—10 oz. of sifted sugar, 3 eggs, 6 oz. of grated cocoa-nut. 1 Mode.—Whisk the eggs until they are very light; add the sugar 1 gradually ; then stir in the cocoa-nut. Koll a tablespoonful of the ! paste at a time in your hands in the form of a pyramid ; place the I 3 I