MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 646 with a cloth, and boil for rather more than 1 hour. When turned out, the brandy and sugar make a nice sauce. Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost, Is, Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. DAMPFIsrUDEIjlSr, or GBRMAH PUDDINGS. 1280. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of flour, ilb. of butter, 5 eggs, 2 small tablespoonfuls of yeast, 2 tablespoonfuls of finely-pounded sugar, milk, a very little salt. Irfode.—Put the flour into a basin, make a hole in the centre, into which put the yeast, and rather more than J pint of warm milk ; make this into a batter with the middle of the flour, and let the sponge rise in a warm temperature. When sufficiently risen, mix the eggs, butter, sugar, and salt with a little more warm milk, and knead the whole well together with the hands, beating the dough until it is perfectly smooth, and it drops from the fingers. Then cover the basin with a cloth, put it in a warm place, and when the dough has nicely risen, knead it into small balls ; butter the bottom of a deep saute-pan, strew over some pounded sugar, and let the dampfnudeln be laid in, but do not let them touch one another; then pour over sufficient milk to cover them, put on the lid, and let them rise to twice their original- size by the side of the fire. JSTow place them in the oven for a few minutes, to acquire a nice brown colour, and serve them on a napkin, with custard sauce flavoured with vanilla, or a compote of any fruit that may be preferred. Time.—§ to f hour for the sponge to rise ; 10 to 15 minutes for the I puddings to rise; 10 minutes to bake them in a brisk oven. Sufficient for 10 or 12 dampfnudeln. Seasonable at any time. GINGEB PUDDING. ! 1281. Ingeedients.—I lb. of flour, Jib. of suet, | lb. of moistsugar, 2 large teaspoonfuls of grated ginger. Jfoc?^.—Shred the suet very fine, mix it with the flour, sugar, and ginger ; stir all well together ; butter a basin, and put the mixture in j dry; tie a cloth over, and boil for 3 hours. Time.—Z hours. Average cost, Qd. i Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. GOLDEN PUDDING. j 12B2. iNaEEDiENTS—I lb. of bread crumbs, I lb. of suet, ilb. of | marmalade, k lb. of sugar, 4 eggs. i