MODEjir HOUSEHOLD COOKERYi 210 1 pint of mushroom ketchup, 1 dozen anchovies, 1 dozen slialots, J pint of soy, i teaspoonful of cayenne. 3fode.—Pnt all the ingvfi'^M.n^ts into a saucepan, having previously chopped the shalots and anchovies very small; simmer for lo minutes, strain, and, when cold, bottle off for use: the corks should be well sealed to exclude the air. Time.—| hour. SeasonablQ at any time. BAVIGOTTE, a French Salad Sauce. Mors. Udts P^edi^e. 501. Ingrediekts.—1 teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tea- ^ spoonful of cavice, 1 teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of Beading sauce, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of thick Bechamel, No. 367, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, 3 tablespoonfals of cream ; salt and pepper to taste. ilfof/fe.—Scald the parsley, mince tjie leaves very fine, and add it to all the other ingredients ; after mixing the whole together thoroughly, the sauce wdll be ready for use. Average cost^ for this quantity, 10J. Seasonable dit diX) J iimQ. • BSADIITG- SAUCE. 502. Ingredients.—2i pints of walnut pickle, \\ oz. of shalotn," 1 quart of spring water, f pint of Indian soy, i oz. of bruised ginger, ^ oz. of long pepper, 1 oz. of mustard-seed, 1 anchovy, ^ oz. of cayenne, J oz. of dried sweet bay-leaves. Mode.—Bruise the shalots in a mortar, and put them in a stone jar with the walnut-liquor ; place it before the fire, and let it boil until reduced to 2 pints. Then, into another jar, put all the ingredients except the bay-leaves, taking care tha^t they are well bruised, so that the fl.avour may be thoroughly extracted ; put this also before the fire, and let it boil for 1 hour, or rather more. When the contents of both jars are sufficiently cooked, mix them together, stirring them well as you mix them, and submit them to a slow boiling for i hour; cover closely, and let them stand 24 hours in a cool place ; then open the jar and add the bay-leaves; let it stand a week longer closed down, svhen strain through a flannel bag, and it will be ready for use. Tho above quantities will make i gallon. Time.—Al-together, 3 hours. Seaso7iahle.—This sauce may be made at any time.