MODSRN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. cream 3 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of sugar, 4 eggs. dings requires a great deal of mixing, as the more it is beaten, the better will the pudding-s be. When served cold, they are usually called gateaux d la Madeleine, Time.—I hour. Average costj lOd. Snfficierit for 6 or 7 puddings. Seasoiiahle at any time. SUET PUDDIKa, to serve with. Boast Meat. 1375. Ingbedients.—1 lb. of fiour, 6 oz. of finely-chopped suet, i saltspoonful of salt, I saltspoonful of pepper, -2- pint of milk or water. Mode.—Qho^ the suet very fmely, after freeing it from skin, and mix it well with the flour ; add the salt and pepper (this latter ingre- dient may be omitted if the flavour is not liked), and make the whole into a smooth paste with the above proportion of milk or water. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, or put it into a buttered basin, and boil from 2 J to 3 hours. To enrich it, substitute 3 beaten eggs for some of the milk or water, and increase the proportion of suet. Time.—2\ to 3 hours. Average costy 6d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. I^ote.—When there is a joint roasting or baking, this pudding may be boiled in a long shape, and then cut into slices a few minutes before dinner is served: these slices should be laid in the dripping-pan for a minute or two^ and then browned before the fire. Most children like this accompaniment to roast meat. Where there is a large family of children, and the means of keex^ing them are limited, it is a most economical plan to serve up the pudding before the meat: as, in this case, the consumption of the latter article will be much smaller than it otherwise would be. SUSSEX, or HARD DUMPLmaS. <| 1376. Ingeedients.-—1 lb. of flour, ipint of water, h saltspoonful of salt. 3fode.—Mix the flour and water together to a smooth paste, previously adding a small quantity of salt. Form this into small round dumplings; drop them into boiling water, and boil from I to f hour. They may be served with roast or boiled meat; in the latter case they may be cooked with the meat, but should be dropped into the water when it is quite boiling. Ttme~i to f hour. Sufficient for 10 or 12 dumplings. Seasonable at any time. VEBMICELLI PUDDING. 1377. INGREDIENTS.--4 OZ. of vcrmicelli, 1^ pint of milk, 4 pint of