<JSi HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. wLich some gum-dragon and f5{?-blue have been dissolved, to pive it a proper con- sistence. To give the collar the same tint throughout, the ^vhole collar should be sponged with the same water, taking care not to touch the flowers. 2267. A multiplicity of accidents occur to soil and spot dresses, which should be removed at once. To remove— 2268. Grease-spots from cotton or woollen materials of fast colours, absorbent pastes, purilled buUock's-blood, and even common soap, are used, applied to the spot when dry. When the colours are not fast, use fuller's-earth or pulverized potter's-clay, laid in a layer over the sx?ot, and press it with a very hot iron. 22G9, For Silks, Moires, and x'llain or brocaded Satins, begin by pouring over the spot two drops of rectilied spirits of wine ; cover it over with a linen cloth, and press it with a hot iron, changing the linen instantly. The spot will look tarnished, for a portion of the grease still remains : this will be removed entirely by a little sulphuric ether dropped on the spot, and a very little rubbing. If neatly done, no perceptible mark or circle will remain; nor will the lustre of the richest silk be changed, the union of the two liquids ©iterating with no injurious effects from rubbing. 2270. Fruit-spots are removed from white and fast-coloured cottons by the use of chloride of soda. Commence by cold-soaping the article, then touch the spot with a hair-pencil or feather dipped in the chloride, dipping it immediately into cold water, to prevent the texture of the article being injured. 2271. TnJc-spofs are removed, when fresh applied to the spot, by a few drops of hofc water being poured on immediately afterwards. By the same process, iron-mould in linen or calico may be removed, dipping immediately in cold water to prevent injury ti> the fabric. 2272. Wax dropped on a shawl, table-cover, or cloth dress, is easily discharged by applying spirits of wine. 2273. Sirups or Preserved Fruits, by washing in lukewarm water with a dry cloth, and pressing the spot between two folds of clean linen. 2274. Essence of Lemon will remove grease, but will make a spot itself in a few days. To clean Silk or Hibbons. 2275. Ingredients.—\ pint of gin, § lb. of honey, | lb. of soft soap, J pint of water. Mode.—Mix the above ingredients together; then lay each breadth of silk upon a clean kitchen table or dresser, and scrub it well on the soiled side with the mixture. Have ready three vessels of cold water; take each piece of silk at two corners, and dip it up and down in each vessel, but do not wring- it ; and take care that each breadth has one vessel of quite clean water for the last dip. Hang it up dripping for a minute or two^ then dab it in a cloth, and iron it quickly with a very hot iron. To remove Paint-spots from Silk Cloth. 227v5. If the fabric will bear it, sharp rubbing will frequently entirely discharge a newly-made paint-stain ; but, if this is not successful, apply spirit of tui'pentine with a quill till the stains disappear. To make old Crape look nearly equal to new. 2277. Place a little water in a teakettle, and let it boil until there is plenty of steam from the spout; then, holding the crape in both hands, pass it to and fro several times through the steam, and it will bo clean and look nearly equal to new.