765 presehves, confectionary, etc. APPLE JELLY. I. 1518. Ingredients.—To 6 lbs. of apples allow 3 pints of water; to every quart of juice allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar ;—the juice of l lemon. 3Iode.—Pare, core, and cut the apples into slices, and put them into a jar, with wat^r in the above proportion. Place them in a cool oven, with the jar well covered, and when the juice is thoroughly drawn and the apples are quite soft, strain them through a jelly-bag. To every quart of juice allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, which should be crushed to small lumps, and put into a preserving-pan with the juice. Boil these together for rather more than i hour, remove the scum as it rises, add the lemon-juice just before it is done, and put the jelly into pots for use. This preparation is useful for garnishing sweet dishes, and may be turned out for dessert. Time—The apples to be put in the oven over-night, and left till morning; rather more than i hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, for this quantity, 3s. Sufficient for 6 small pots of jelly. Seasonahle—Thi^ should be made in September, October, or No- vember. II. 1519. Ingredients.—Apples, water: to every pint of syrup allow f lb. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Pare and cut the apples into pieces, remove the cores, and put them in a preserving-pan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let them boil for an hour; then drain the syrup from them through a hair sieve or jelly-bag, and measure the juice; to every pint allow I lb. of loaf sugar, and boil these together for | hour, removing every particle of scum as it rises, and keeping the jelly well stirred, that it may not burn. A little lemon-rind may be boiled with the apples, and a small quantity of strained lemon-juice may be put in the jelly just before it is done, when the flavour is liked. This jelly may be ornamented with preserved greengages, or any other preserved fruit, and will turn out very prettily for dessert. It should be stored away in small pots. Tinie.—l hour to boil the fruit and water; f hour to boil the juice with the sugar. Average cost, for 6 lbs. of apples, with the other ingredients in pro- portion, 3s. Sufficient for 6 small pots of jelly. SeasonableMoke this in September, October, or November.