818 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. fingers about 4 inches in length. Bake them in a moderate oven a- very light colour, and serve very hot. Time.—ld to 20 minutes. Average cost, Is. 4:d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. TO MAKE A FONDUE. •1643. Ingeediei^ts.—4 eggs, the weight of 2 in Parmesan or good Cheshire cheese, the weight of 2 in butter; pepper and salt to taste. Mode,—Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs ; beat the former in a basin, and grate the cheese, or cut it into very thin flakes. Parmesan or Cheshire cheese may be used, whichever is the most con- venient, although the former is considered more suitable for this dish; or an equal quantity of each may be used. Break the butter into small pieces, add it to the other ingredients, with sufficient pepper and salt to season nicely, and beat the mixture thoroughly. Well whisk the whites of the eggs, stir them lightly in, and either bake the fondue in a souffle-dish or small round cake-tin. Fill the dish only half full, as the fondue should rise very much. Pin a napkin round the tin or dish, and serve very hot and very quickly. If allowed to stand after it is withdrawn from the oven, the beauty and lightness of this preparation will be entirely spoiled. Time,—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, 10c/. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. BBILLAT SAVABIN'S FONDUE. {An excellent Mecipe.) 1644. Iiq-GEEDIENTS.—Eggs, chcese, butter, pepper and salt. Mode.—Take the same number of eggs as there are guests ; weigh 1 the eggs in the shell, allow a third of their weight in Cruyere cheese, and a piece of butter one-sixth of the weight of the cheese. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well; add the cheese, which should be grated, and the butter, which should be broken into small pieces. Stir these ingredients together with a wooden spoon; put the mixture into a lined saucepan, place it over the Are, and stir until the sub- stance is thick and soft. Put in a little salt, according to the age of the cheese, and a good sprinkling of pepper, and serve the fondue on a very hot silver or metal plate. Do not allow the fondue to remain on the fire after the mixture is set, as, if it boils, it wiU be entirely spoiled. Brillat Savarin recommends that some choice Burgundy should be handed round with this dish. We have given this recipe exactly as he recommends it to be made; but we have tried it with good Cheshire cheese, and found it answer remarkably well.