MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 658 EXCBLI.ENT MmCEMEAT. 1310. Ikgbedients.—3 large lemons, 3 large apples, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of suet, 2 lbs. of moist sugar, 1 oz. of sliced candied citron, 1 oz. of sliced candied orange-peel, and the same quantity of lemon-peel, 1 teacupful of brandy, 2 tablespoonfuls of orange marmalade. Mode.-—QTa.te the rinds of the lemons; squeeze out the juice, strain it, and boil the remainder of the lemons until tender enough to pulp or chop very finely. Then add to this pulp the apples, which should be baked, and their skins and cores removed; put in the remaining ingredients one by one, and, as they are added, mix every- thing very thoroughly together. Put the mincemeat into a stone jar with a closely-fitting lid, and in a fortnight it will be ready for use. Seasonable,—This should be made the first or second week in De- cember. MINCE PIES. 1311. iNGEEDiEjrTS.—Good puff-paste No. 1205, mincemeat No. 1309. Mode.—Make some good puff-paste by recipe No. 1205; roll it out to the thickness of about | inch, and line some good-sized pattypans with it; fill them with mincemeat, cover with the paste, and cut it off all round close to the edge of the tin. Put the pies into a brisk oven, to draw the paste up, and bake for 25 minutes, or longer, should the pies be very large; brush them over with the white of an egg, beaten with the blade of a knife to a stiff froth; sprinkle over pounded sugar, and put them into the oven for a minute or two, to dry the egg; dish the pies on a white d'oyley, and serve hot. They may be merely sprinkled with pounded sugar instead of being glazed, when that mode is preferred. To re-warm them, put the pies on the pattypans, and let them remain in the oven for 10 minutes or j hour, and they will be almost as good as if freshly made. Time.—25 to 30 minutes; 10 minutes to re-warm them. Average cost, 4d each. Sufficient—^ lb. of paste for 4 pies. SeasonaUe at Christmas time. MONDAY'S PUDDING. 1312. In-gredients.—The remains of cold plum-pudding, brandy, custard made with 5 eggs to every pint of milk. Mode.—Qvii the remains of a good cold plum-pudding into finger-