153 FISH. To Cure Salmon.—This proeesi consists in splitting the fish, rubbing it with salt, and then putting it into pickle in tubs provided for the purpose. Here it is kept for about six weeks, when it is taken out, pressed and packed in casks, with layers of salt. POTTED SALMOIT. 309. Ingeedieists.—Salmon ; pounded mace, cloves, and pepper to taste; 3 bay-leaves, ^Ib. butter. 3fode.—Skin the salmon, and clean it thoroughly by wiping with a cloth (water would spoil it); cut it into square pieces, which rub with salt; let them remain till thoroughly drained, then lay them in a dish with the other ingredients, and bake. When quite done, drain them from the gravy, press into pots for use, and, when cold, pour over it clarified butter. Time.—| hour. Ait Aveesion m the Salmon".—The salmon is said to have an aversion to anything red ; hence, fishermen engaged in catching it do not wear jackets or caps of that colour. Pontoppidan also says, that it has an abhorrence of carrion, and if any happens to be thrown into the places it haunts, it immediately forsakes them. The remedy adopted for this in ISTorway, is to throw into the polluted Avater a lighted torch. As food, salmon, w^heu in perfection, is one of tJie most delicious and nutritive of our fish. BAKED SEA-BBEAM. 310. Ingredients.—1 bream. Seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and cayenne ; 5 lb. of butter. 3Iode.—Well wash the bream, but do not remove the scales, and wipe away all moisture with a nice dry cloth. Season it inside and out with salt, pepper, and ca3^enne, and lay it in a baking-dish. Place the butter, in small pieces, upon the fish, and bake for rather more than i an hour. To stuff this fish before baking, vrill bo found a great improvement. Time.—Kather more than J an hour. Seasonable in summer. Note.—This fish may be broiled over a nice clear fire^ and served with a good brown gravy or white sauce, or it may bo stewed in wine. TuE Sea-Bream.—This is an abundant fish in CornAvall, and it is frequently found in the fish- market of Hastings during the summer mouths, but it is not in nauch esteem. ME. TAERELL's EECIPE. ''When gioroughly cleansed, the fish shouldbe wiped dry, but none of the scales should be taken off In this state it should be broiled, turning it often, and if the skin cracks, nour It a httle to keep the outer case entire. When on table, the whole skin and ecales turn ott without difilculty, and the muscle beneath, saturated in its own natural iuices. wiiich the outside covering has retained, will be of good flavour." THE SEA-BEEAM.