615 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. butter, wring it in a cloth, and roll out the paste; place the butter on this, and fold the edges of the paste over, so as to hide it; roll it out again to the thickness of j inch ; fold over one third, over which again pass the rolling-pin ; then fold over the other third, thus forming a square; place it with the ends, top, and bottom before you, shaking a little flour both under and over, and repeat the rolls and turns twice again, as before. Flour a baking-sheet, put the paste on this, and let it remain on ice or in some cool place for i hour; then roll twice more, turning it as before ; place it again upon the ice for i hour, give it 2 more rolls, making 7 in all, and it is ready for use when required. Average cost^ Is. 6d. per lb. VEBY GOOD SHOKT CRUST FOB FBUIT TARTS. 1210. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of flour allow | lb. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of sifted sugar, J pint of water. Mocle—B^uh the butter into the flour, after having ascertained that the latter is perfectly dry; add the sugar, and mix the whole into a stiff" paste, with about J pint of water. Roll it out two or three times, folding the paste over each time, and it will be ready for use. Aver^age cosfy Is. Id. per lb. ANOTHER GOOD SHORT CRUST. 1211. Ikgeedieitts.—To every lb. of flour allow 8 oz. of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, 2 oz. of sifted sugar, about J pint of milk. Mode,—'Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, and mix the whole as lightly as possible to a smooth paste, with the yolks of eggs well beaten, and the milk. The proportion of the latter ingredient must be judged of Fy the size of the eggs: if these are large, so much will not be required, and more if the eggs are smaller. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sugar and Beetboot.—There are two sorts of Beet,—white and red; occasionally, in the southj a yellow variety is met with. Beetroot contains twenty parts sugar. Everybody knows that the beet has competed with the sugar-cane, and a great part of the French su gar is manufactured from beet. Beetroot has a refreshing, composing, and slightly pur- gative quality. The youngleaves, when cooked, are a substitute for spinach; they are also useful for mixing with sorrel, to lessen its acidity. The large ribs of the leaves are ser- viceable in various culinary preparations; the root also may be prepared in several ways, but its most general use is in salad. Some writers upon the subject have expressed their opinion that beetroot is easUy digested, but those who have taken pains to carefully analyze its qualities make quite a contrary statem-cnt. Youth, of course, can digest it; but to persons of a certain age beet is very indigestible, or rather, it does not digest at all. It is not the sugary pulp which is indigestible, but its fibrous network that resists the action of the gastric organs. Thus, when the root is reduced to a puree, almost any person may eat it. Feench Sugar.—It had long been thought that tropical heat was not necessary to form sugar, and, about 1740, it was discovered that many plants of the temperate zone, and amongst others the beet, contained it. Towards the beginning of the 19th century, circumstances having, in France, made sugar scarce, and consequently dear, the govern-