434 MODERN EOUSEHOLD COOKERY. buttons (when obtainable), 6 hard-boiled eggs, 4 gherkins, 8 quenelles or forcemeat balls, No. 422 or 423,12 crayfish, 12 croutons. Jfof^e.—Half a calf s head is sufficient to make a good entree, and if there are any remains of a cold one left from the preceding day, it * will answer very well for this dish. After boiling the head until tender, remove the bones, and cut the meat into neat pieces ; put the stock into a stewpan, add the wine, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne; fry the mushrooms in butter for 2 or 3 minutes, and add these to the gravy. Boil this quickly until somewhat reduced ; then put in the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs wJioIe, the v/hites cut in small pieces, and the gherkins chopped. Have ready a few veal quenelles, made by recipe Fo. 422 or 423; add these, with the slices of head, to the other ingredients, and let the whole get thoroughly hot, ivithout hoiling. Arrange the pieces of head as high in the centre of the dish as possible; pour over them the ragout, and garnish with the crayfish and croutons placed alternately. A little of the gravy should also be served in a tureen. Time—IiJoovii \ hour to reduce the stock. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Average cost, exclusive of the calf's head, 2s, dd. Seasonable from March to October. A Frenchman's Opinion Veal.—great authority in his native Paris tells us, that veal, as a meat, is but little nourishing, is relaxing, and sufficiently difficult of digestion. Lending itself, as it does, he says, in all the iIo\Yery imagery of the French tongue and manner, '* to so many metamorphoses, it may be called, without exaggeration, the chameleon of the kitchen. Who has not eaten calf's head mc naturel, simply boiled with the skin on, its ilavour heightened by sauce just a little sharp ? It is a dish as wholesome as it is agreeable, and one that the most inexperienced cook may serve with success. Calf s feet a lapmdette, au gratin, fried, &c.; les cervelles, served in the same manner, and under the same names; sweetbreads en fricandeau, piques enfm,—all these offer most satisfactory entrees, which the art of the cook, more or less, varies for the grati- ^cation of his glory and the well-beirjg of our appetites. We have not spoken, in the cbove catalogue, either of the liver, or of ih.efraise, or of the ears, which also share the honour of appearing at our tables. Where is the man not acquainted with calf's liver h la bourgeoise, the most frequent and convenient dish at unpretentious tables ? The/mise, cooked in water, and eaten with vinegar, is a wholesome and agreeable dish, and contains a mucilage well adapted for dehcate persons. Calf's ears have, in common with the feet and cervelles, the advantage of being able to bo eaten either fried or a la poulette; and besides, can be made into a, farce, witli the addition of peas, onions, cheese, &c. Neither is it confined to the calf's tongue, or even the eyes, that these shall dispute alone the glory of awakening the taste of man; thus, the fressure (which, as is known, comprises the heart, the moii, and the rate), although not a very recherche dish, lends itself to all the caprices of an expert artist, and m.ay, under various marvellous disguises, deceive, and please, and even awaken our appetite!"—Verily, we might say, after this rhapsody olf our neighbour, that his country's weal will not suffer in him as an able and eloquent exponent and admirer.