PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 639 then form the mixture into round balls or egg-shaped pieces ; fry these in hot butter or lard, letting them stew in it until thoroughly done, and turn them two or three times, till of a fine light brown; drain them on a piece of blotting-paper before the fire ; dish, and serve with wine sauce. Time.—15 to 20 minutes. Average cost. Is, . Siifflcient for 7 or 8 puddings. Seasonable at any time. CUEKANT DUMPLINGS. 1264, Ingeedtents.—1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of suet, ilb. of currants, rather more than i pint of water. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix it with the flour, and add the currants, which should be nicely washed, picked, and dried; mix the whole to a limp paste with the water (if wanted very nice, use milk); divide it into 7 or 8 dumplings; tie them in cloths, and boil for li hour. They may be boiled without a cloth : they should then be made into round balls, and dropped into boiling water, and should be moved about at first, to prevent them from sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. Serve with a cut lemon, cold butter, and sifted sugar. Time.—In a cloth, 1 j hour ; without, f hour. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. Zante Cuerants.—The dried fruit which goes by the name of currants in grocers' shops is not a currant really, but a small kind of grape, chiefly cultivated in the Morea and the Ionian Islands, Corfu, Zante, &c. Those of Zante are cultivated in an I immense plain, under the shelter of mountains, on the. shore of j the island, where the sun has great power, and brings them to maturity. When gathered and dried by the sun and air, on 1 mats, they are conveyed to magazines, heaped together, and left to cake, until ready for shipping. They are then dug out by iron crowbars, trodden into casks, and exported. The fer- tile vale of "Zante the woody" produces about 9,000,000lbs, of currants annually. In cakes and puddings this delicious [uttJe grape is most extensively used; in fact, we could not make ZANTE cueean-TS. aplum pudding without the currant. . BOILED CUBBANT PUDDING-. {Plain and Economical.) 1265. Ii^GEEDiEi^TS.—1 lb. of flour, h lb. of suet, i lb. of currants, milk. Ifoc/e.—Wash the currants, dry them thoroughly, and pick away any stalks or .grit; chop the suet finely; mix all the ingredients together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding into a stiff batter ; tie it up in a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil for 3J hours ; serve with a cut lemon, cold butter, and sifted sugar.