MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 608 1183. Lard should be perfectly sweet, which may be ascertained by cutting the bladder through, and, if the knife smells sweet, the lard is good. 1184. Stiet should be finely chopped, perfectly free from sldn, and quite sweet; during the process of chopping, it should be lightly dredged with flour, which prevents the pieces from sticking together. Beef suet is considered the best; but veal suet, or the outside fat of a loin or neck of mutton, makes good crusts; as also the skimmings in which a joint of mutton has been boiled, but without vegetables. 1185. Clarified Beef Dripping^ directions for which will be found in recipes Nos. 621 and 622, answers very well for kitchen pies, puddings, cakes, or for family use. A very good short crust may be made by mixing with it a small quantity of moist sugar; but care must be taken to use the dripping sparingly, or a very disagreeable flavour will be imparted to the paste. 1186. Strict cleanliness must be observed in pastry-making; all the utensils used should be perfectly free from dust and dirt, and the things re- quired for pastry, kept entirely for that purpose. 1187. In mixing paste, add the water very gradually, work the whole together with the knife-blade, and knead it until perfectly smooth. Those who are inexpe- rienced in pastry-making, should work the butter in by breaking it in small I pieces and covering the paste rolled out. It should then be dredged with flour, and the ends folded over and j, rolled out very thin again: this i process must be repeated until all the butter is used. 1188. The art of making paste, requires much practice, dexte- rity, and skill: it PASTE-BOAKD AND BOLLING-PIN. PASTE-PIN-CEKS AND JAGGER, TOE - ^ t '^^ ~ -t. \ ^A Vin OENAMENTING THE EDGES OF PIE-CKUSTS. rlty, aud Sklll : it SilOUia DL touched as lightly as possible, made with cool hands and in a cool place (a marble slab is better than a board for the purpose), and the coolest part of the house should be selected for the process during warm weather.