HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMEKT. 1018 powder, possibly also to repeat the dose for once or twice every three hours ; in which case the following prescription is to be employed. Take or Powdered scammony . . , 6 grains. Grey powder . , « . , 6 grains. Antimonial powder , • . , 4 grains. Lump sugar , , , . , 20 grains. Mix thoroughly, and divide into three powders, which are to be taken as ad- vised for an infant one year old ; for younger or weakly infants, divide into four powders, and give as the other. For thirst and febrile symptoms, give drinks of barley-water, or cold water, and every three hours put ten to fifl eea drops of spirits of sweet nitre in a dessert-spoonful of either beverage. THBUSH, AlvTD ITS TREATMENT. 2523. This is a disease to which infants are peculiarly subject, and in whom alone it may be said to be a disease ; for when thrush shows itself in adult or advanced life, it is not as a disease proper, but only as a symptom, or accessory, of some other ailment, generally of a chronic character, and should no more be classed as a separate affection than the petechsg, or dark-coloured spots that appear in malignant measles, may be considered a distinct affection. 2524. Thrush is a disease of the follicles of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, whereby there are formed small vesicles, or bladders, filled with a thick mucous secretion, which, bursting, discharge their contents, and form minute ulcers in the centre of each vessel. To make this formal but unavoidable description intelligible, we must beg the reader's patience while v/e briefly explain terms that may appear to many so unmeaning, and make the pathology of thrush fully familiar. -2525. The whole digestive canal, of which the stomach and bowels are only a ipart, is covered, from the lips, eyes, and ears downwards, with a thin glairy tissue, like the skin that lines the inside of an egg, called the mucous membrane ; this membrane is dotted all over, in a state of health, by im- perceptible points, called follicles, through which the saliva, or mucus secreted by the membrane, is poured out. 2526. These follicles, or little glands, then, becoming enlarged, and filled with a congealed fluid, constitute thrush in its first stage; and when the child's lips and mouth appear a mass of small pearls, then, as these break and discharge, the second stage, or that of ulceration, sets in. 2527. Symptoms.—Thrush is generally preceded by considerable irritation, by the child crying and fretting, showing more than ordinary redness of the