MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 568. The Hot-plate is a modern improvement on the old kitchen ranges, being used for boiling and stewing. It is a plate of cast iron, having a closed fire burning beneath it, by which it is tho- roughly well heated. On this plate are set the various saucepans, stewpans, &c.; and, by this convenient and economical method, a number of dishes may be prepared at one time. The culinary processes of braising and stewing are, in this manner, rendered more gradual, and consequently the substance acted on becomes more tender, and the gravy is not so much reduced. BEOILING-. 569. Generally speaking, small dishes only are prepared by this mode of cooking; amongst these, the beef-steak and mutton chop of the solitary English diner may be mentioned as celebrated all the world over. Our beef-steak, indeed, has long crossed the Channel; and, with a view of jDleasing the Britons, there is in every carte at every French restaurant, by the side of d la Marengo, and d la Mayonnaise,—hifteh d'Angleierre. In order to succeed in a broil, the cook must have a bright, clear fire ; so that the surface of the meat may be quickly heated. The result of this is the same as that obtained in roasting; namely, that a crust, so to speak, is formed outside, and thus the juices of the meat are retained. The appetite of an invalid, so difiicult to minister to, is often pleased with a broiled dish, as the flavour and sapidity of the meat are so well EEVOLVING GEIDIROli. 5 70. The Utensils used for Broiling need but little description. The com- mon gridiron, for which see engraving at No. 68, is the same as it has been for ages past, although some little variety has been introduced into its manufacture, by the addition of grooves to the bars, by means of which the liquid fat is carried into a small trough. One point it is well to bear in mind, viz., that the grid- iron should be kept in a direction slanting towards the cook, so that as little fat as possible may fall into the fire. It has been observed, that broiling is the most difiicult manual ofiice the general cook has to perform, and one that requires the most unremitting attention ; for she may turn her back upon the «tewpan or the spit, but the gridiron can never be left with impunity. The Tv8volving gridiron, shown in the engraving, possesses some advantages of convenience, which will be at once apparent.