I 00^" MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. And we may well say. Who, indeed, would suppose it ? The gulf between the Croat, with a steak under his saddle, and Alexis Soyer getting up a great dinner at the Eeform Club, or even Thackeray's Mrs. Raymond Gray giving " a little dinner " to Mr. Snob (with one of those famous roly-poly puddings'* of hers),—what a gulf it is ! 1881. That Adcim's ^'ration," however, was '^simple," is a matter on which we have contrary judgments given by the poets. When Raphael paid that memorable visit to Paradise,—which we are expressly told by Milton he did exactly at dinner-time,—Eve seems to have prepared a little dinner" not wholly destitute of complexity, and to have added ice-creams and perfumes* Nothing can be clearer than the testimony of the poet on these point'k ;— *' And Eve witliin, due at her home prepared Por dinner savoury fruits, of taste to please True appetite, and not disrelish thirst Of nectarous draughts between . . , With dispatebful looks in haste She turns, on hospitable thoughts iutent, What choice to choose for delicacy best, What order so contrived as not to mix Tastes not well join'd, inelegant, but bring Taste after taste, upheld v/ith kindliest change— * * * ^ * ^ / She tempers dulcet creams then stretvs ilie grGund With rose and odours." It may be observed, in passing, that the poets, though they have more to say about wine than solid food, because the former more directly stimulates the 4 intellect and the feelings, do not flinch from t?ie subject of eating and drinking, J| There is infinite zest in the above passage from Milton, and even more in the " famous description of a dainty supper, given by Keats in his ^^Eve of Saint Agnes." Could Queen M?ib herself desire to sit down to anything nicer, both as to its appointments and serving, and as to its quality, than the collation seiwed by Porphyro in the la'iy's bedroom v/liile she slept ?— " There by the bedside, where the faded moon Made a dim silver twilight, soft he set A table, and, half-anguish'd, threw thereor A cloth of woven crimson, gold, and jet. ***** While he, from forth the closet, brought a heap Of candied apple, quince, and plum, and gourd j With jellies smoother than the creamy curd, And lucent syrups tinct with cinnamon ; Manna and dates, in argosy transferred From Fez ; and spiced dainties, every one, Prom silken Samarcand to cedar'd Lebanon.** But Tennyson has ventured beyond dates, p.nd quinces, and syrups, which may be thought easy to be brought in by a poet. In his idyl of ^' Audley Court" he gives a most appetizing description of a pasty at a pic-nic :— *' There, on a slope of orchard, Francis laid A damask napkin wrought with horse and hound; Brought out a dusky loaf that smelt of home, And, half cut down, a pasty costly made, Where quail and pigeon, lark and leveret, lay Like fossils of the rock, with golden yolks Imbedded and injellied."