MODEKJSr HOUSEHOIJ) COOKERY, 958 2143.—BILL OF PARE FOR A BALL SUPPER, Or a Cold Collation for a Summer Entertainment, or Wedding or Christening Breakfast for 70 or 80 Persons (July). III o o ^» CO i=0 Dish of Lobster, cut up. Charlotte Eusse a la VauiUe. Pigeon Pie. Veal-and-Ham Pie. Tongue. Eibs of Lamb. Two Koast Fowls. ^ Mayonnaise of Salmon. g I i i I Epergne, with Flowers. ^ ^ Savoy Cake. » § Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue, garnished. Boiled Fowls and Bechamel Sauce. Collared Eel. Ham. Raised Pie. Two Roast Fowls. Shoulder of Lamb, stuffed. Mayonnaise of Salmon. Dish of Lobster, cut up. Dish of Lobster, cut up. I Epergne, with Flowers, g S Pigeon Pie, S CB I __l 03 fcd ^n"^ Pigeon Pie. o S ai Dish of Q„^^„ cut up. Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue. Boiled Fowls and Bechamel Sauce. Raised Pie. Ham, decorated. Shoulder of Lamb, stuffed. Two Roast Fowls. Mayonnaise of Salmon. Epergne, with Flowers. Mayonnaise of Trout. Tongue, garnished. Boiled Fowls and Bechamel Sauce. Collared Eel. Dish of Lobster, cut up. Char- -rj, Kusse > 1 Ham a la p. Dish of Lobster, cut up. © is O c3 Pi 0) 43 iVo^e.—The length of the page will not admit of our giving the dishes as they should be placed on the table; they should be arranged with the large and high dishes down the ceutre, and the spaces filled up with the smaller dishes, fruit, and flowers, taking care that the flavours and colours contrast nicely, and that no two dishes of a sort come together. This bill of fare may be made to answer three or four purposes, placing a wedding cake or christening cake in the centre on a high stand, if required for either of these occasions. A few dishes of fowls, lobster salads, &c. &c., should be kept in reserve to replenish those that are most likely to be eaten first. A joint of cold roast and boiled beef ihould be placed on the buffet, as being something substantial for the gentlemen of the party to partake of. Besides the articles enumerated in the bill of fare, biscuits and wafers will be required, cream-and-water ices, tea, coffee, wines, liqueurs, soda- water, ginger-beer, and lemonade.