MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 902 sugar, and pour over the boiling water. Let it cool, then strain it j add the wine, lemon-juice, and eggs, previously well beaten, and also strained, and the beverage will be ready for use. If thought desirable, the quantity of sherry and water could be lessened, and milk substi- tuted for them. To obtain the flavour of the lemon-rind properly, a few lumps of the sugar should be rubbed over it, until some of the yellow is absorbed. Tme.—Altogether 1 hour to make it. Average cost, Is. 8d, Sufficient to make 2^ pints of lemonade. Seasonable at any time. TO MAKE MUTTOIT BROTH. 1872. Ijtgredients.—1 lb. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton, 1 onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, i turnip, 3 pints of water, pepper and salt to taste. Mode,—Put the mutton into a stewpan ; pour over the water cold and add the other ingredients. When it boils, skim it very carefully, cover the pan closely, and let it simmer very gently for an hour; strain it, let it cool, take off all the fat from the surface, and warm up as much as may be required, adding, if the patient be allowed to take it, a teaspoonful of minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Pearl barley or rice are very nice additions to mutton broth, and should be boiled as long as the other ingredients. When either of these is added, the broth must not be strained, but merely tho- roughly skimmed. Plain mutton broth v/ithout seasoning is made by merely boiling the mutton, water, and salt together, straining it, letting the broth cool, skimming all the fat off, and warming up as much as is required. This preparation would be very tasteless and insipid, but likely to agree with very delicate stomachs, whereas the least addition of other ingredients would have the contrary effect. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, 7d. Sufficient to make from l| to 2 pints of broth. Seasonable at any time. IVote.—Veal broth may be made in the same manner ; the knuckle of a leg or shoulder is the part usually used for this purpose. It is very good with tho addition of the inferior joints of a fowl, or a few shank-bones. MUTTOIsT BROTH, QUICKLY MADE. 1873, IiMGREDiENTS.—1 or 2 chops from a neck of mutton, 1 pint of water, a small bunch of sweet herbs, J of an onion, pepper and salt to taste. Mode. —Cut the meat into small pieces , put it into a saucepan with the bones, but no skin or fat; add the other ingredients ; cover the