MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 482 the eggs, but destroy the birds. The platform should be painted white, and renewed aa the paint wears off, white being a favourite colour with pigeons, and also most couspic-uou3 as a mark to enable them to find their house. The boxes ought also to be similarly- painted, and renewed when necessary, for which purpose lime and water will do very well. The Necessity of Cleanliness.—As cleanliness in human habitations is of the first importance, so is it in the pigeon-house. There the want of it will soon render the place a nuisance not to be approached, and the birds, both young and old, will be so covered with vermin and filth, that they will neither_ enjoy health nor comfort, whilst early mortality amongst them will be almost certain. In some cases, the pigeon-house is cleaned daily; but it should always be done, at any rate, once a week, and the floor covered with sifted gravel, frequently renewed. _ Pigeons being exceedingly fond of water, and having a prescience of the coming of rain, they may be seen upon the house- tops waiting upon it until late in the evening, and then spreading their wings to receive the luxury of the refreshing shower. When they are confined in a room, therefore, they should be allowed a wide pan of water, to be often renewed. This serves them for a bath, which cools, refreshes, and assists them to keep their bodies clear of vermin. Breeding Pigeons.—In breeding pigeons, it is necessary to match a cock and hen, and shut them up together, or place them near to each other, and in the course of a day or two there is little doubt of their mating. Various rules have been laid down for the purpose of assisting to distinguish the cock from the hen pigeon; but the mascu- line forwardness and action of the cock is generally so remarkable, that he is easily ascertained. The pigeon being monogamous, the male attaches and confines himself to one female, and the attachment is reciprocal, and the fidelity of the dove to its mate is proverbial. At the age of six months, young pigeons are termed squeakers, and then begin to breed, when properly managed. Their courtship, and the well-known tone of voice in the cock, just then acquired and commencing, are indications of their approach- ing union. Nesthngs, while ted by cock and hen, are termed squabs, and are, at that age, sold and used for the table. The dove-house pigeon is said to breed monthly, when well supplied with food. At aU events, it may be depended on, that pigeons of almost any healthy and well-established variety will breed eight or ten times in the year; whence it may readilj' be conceived how vast are the numbers that may be raised. The Caerieb Pigeon.—Without doubt the carrier is entitled to raijk first in the • pigeon family, with the exception, perhaps, of the blue-rock pigeons. ISTo domestic fowl can be traced to so remote an antiquity. When Greece was in its glory, carrier pigeons were usedto convey to distant parts the nanies of the victors at the Olympian games. During the holy war, when Acre was besieged by King Richard, Saladin habitually correspondeil with the besieged by means of carrier pigeons. A shaft from an English crossbow, however, happened to bring one of these feathered mes- sengers to the ground, and the stratagem \Ya9 discovered, the design of the Saracens re- vealed, and so turned against the designers, that Acre was in the hands of the Christiana before the wily Saladin dreamt of such a thing. PIGEON PIE (Epsom Grand-Stand Eecipe). • srs. IisGEEDiENTS.—lb. of rump-steak, 2 or 3 pigeons, 3 slices of ham, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 4 eggs, puff crust. Ilode,—Cut the steak into pieces about 3 inches square, and with it line the bottom of a pie-dish, seasoning it well with pepper and salt. Clean the pigeons, rub them with pepper and salt inside and out, and put into the body of each rather more than i oz. of butter; lay them on the steak, and a piece of ham on each pigeon. Add the yolks of 4 eggs, and half fill the dish with stock ; place a border of puff paste round the edge of the dish, put on the cover, and ornament CAKKIES PlGiiOjSe.