210 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. St. Vincent's, and Trinidad. The clove contains al)Out 20 per cent, of volatile aromatic oil* to whieli it owes its peculiar pungent flavour, its other parts being composed of woody fibre, water, gum, and resin. BUOWN GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. 437. Ingbedients.—2 large onions, 1 large carrot, 2 oz. of butter, 8 pints of boiling water, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, a wineglassfiil of good beer; salt and pepper to taste. 3fode.—Slice, flour, and fry the onions and carrots in the butter until of a nice light-brown colour; then add the boiling water and the remaining ingredients; let the whole stew gently for about an hour ; then strain, and when cold, skim o& all the fat. Thicken it in the same manner as recipe No. 436, and, if thought necessary, add a few drops of colouring No. 108. Time,—! hour. Average cost, 2d. per pint. Note.—The addition of a small quantity of musliroom ketchup or Harvey's sauce very much improves the flavour of this gravy. illOH GRAVY FOU HASHES, RAGOUTS, &c. 438. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 1 large onion or a few shalots, a little flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 blades of mace, 2 or 3 cloves, 4 whole allspice, I teaspoonful of whole pepper, 1 slice of lean ham or bacon, i a head of celery (when at hand), 2 pints of boiling water ; salt and cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the beef into thin slices, as also the onions, dredge them with flour, and fry of a pale brown, but do not allow them to get black ; pour in the boiling water, let it boil up ; and skim.' Add the ''emaining ingredients, and simmer the whole very gently for 2 hours, or until all the juices are extracted from the meat; put it by to get cold, when take off all the fat. This gravy may be flavoured with ketchup, store sauces, wine, or, in fact, any- thing that may give additional and suitable relish to the dish it is intended for. Tune.—Rather more than 2 hours. Average cost, Sd. per pint. Allspice.—This is the popular name given to pimento, or Jamaica pepper, known to natiiralists as Eugeniapimentay and belonging to the order of Myrtaceaa. It is the berrjr of a fine tree in the West Indies and South America, riMENTO. which attains a height of from fifteen to twenty feet: the berries are no^t allowed to ripen, but, being gathered green, are then dried in the sun, and then become black. It is an inexpensive spice, and. is considered more mild and innocent than most other spices; consequently, it is Hiuch used for domestic purposes, combining a very agreeable variety of flavours.