500 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. v/hite peppercorns, and any trimmings or bones of undressed veal which may be at hand; cover the whole with good veal broth, add salt, if needed, and stew it very softly, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half; let it cool in the liquor in which it was stewed ; and after it is lifted out, boil down the gravy to a jeliy and strain it; let it become cold, clear off the fat, and serve it cut into large dice oi roughed, and laid round the fowl, which is to be served cold, it restored to its form, instead of being rolled, it must be stewed gently for an hour, and may then be sent to table hot, covered with mush- room, or any other good sauce that may be preierred ; or it may be left until the following day, and served garnished with the jelly, which should be firm, and very clear and well-iiavoured : the liquoi in which a calf s foot has been boiled down, added to the broth, wiiJ give it the necessary degree of consistence. TO BONE POWIiS FOU FRICASSEES, CUBBIES, & PIES. 995. First carve them entirely into joints, then remove the bones, beginning with the legs and wings, at the head of the largest bone; hold this with the lingers, and work the knife as directed in the recipe above. The remainder of the birds is too easily done to require any instructions. TO DRESS WHEATEARS. 996. Ingredients.—-Wheatears; fresh butter. After the birds are picked, gutted, and cleaned, truss them like larks, put them down to a quick tire, and baste them well with fresh butter. When done, which will be in about 20 minutes, dish them on fried bread crumbs, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon. Time—20 minutes. Seasonable from July to October. The Wheateae.—Tlie wheatear is an annual visitor of England: it arrives about the middle of March and leaves in September. The females come about a fortnight before the males, and continue to arrive till the middle ot May. They are in sea-^oa from July to October, and are taken in large numbers on the'South Downs, iu the neighbourhood of Eastbourne, Brighton, and other parts of Sussex. They are taken by means of snares and nets, and numbers of them are eaten on the spot by the inhabi- tants. The larger ones are sent to London and potted, where they are by many as much esteemed as the ortolans of the continent, Mr, Pennant assigns as the reason of their abounding on the downs about Eastbourne, the existence of a species of fly v,hich forms their favourite food, and which feeds on the wild thyme on the adjacent hills. 097.. The Guinea-Ptg,—This common hutch-companion of the rabbit, although origi- r ally a native of Brazil, propagates freely in England and other European countries, Vv ero it not that they sufl'er cruelly from eats, and numerous other enemies, and that it is the habit of the males to devour their own offspring, their numbers would coon become over- Tvnelmmg. Eats, however, it is said, carefully avoid thein; and for this reason they are