878 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, A VERY SIMPLE METHOD OF MAKING COFFEE. 1811. Ingredients.—Allow i oz., or 1 tablespoonful, of coffee to eacli person; to every oz. allow J pint of water. Mode.—ILBYe a small iron ring made to fit the top of the coffee-pot inside, and to this ring sew a small muslin bag (the muslin for the purpose must not be too thin). Fit the bag into the pot, pour some boiling water in it, and, when the pot is well warmed, put the ground coffee into the bag ; pour over as much boiling water as is required, close the lid, and, when all the water has filtered through, remove the bag, and send the coffee to table. Making it in this manner pre- vents the necessity of pouring the coffee from one vessel to another, which cools and spoils it. The water should be poured on the coffee gradually, so that the infusion may be stronger; and the bag must be well made, that none of the grounds may escape through the seams, and so make the coffee thick and muddy. Sttfficient,—'Allow 1 tablespoonful, or i oz., to each person. The Copfei: Plant grows to tlie height of about twelve or fifteen feet, with leaves not unlike those of the common laurel, although more pointed, and not so dry and thick. The blossoms are white, much like those of jasmine, and issue from the angles of the leaf- stalks. AYhen the flowers fade, they are succeeded by the coflFee- bean, or seed, which is inclosed in a berry of a red colour, when ripe resembling a cherry. The coffee-beans are prepared by ex- posing them to the sun for a few days, that the pulp may ferment and throw off a strong acidulous moisture. They are then gradually dried for about three weeks, and put into a miU to separate the husk COFFEE. from the seed. CAFE AU LAIT. 1812. This is merely very strong coffee added to a large pro- portion of good hot milk; about 6 tablespoonfuis of strong coffee being quite sufficient for a breakfast-cupful of milk. Of the essence No. 1808, which answers admirably for cafe au lait, so much would not be required. This preparation is infinitely superior to the weak watery coffee so often served at English tables. A little cream mixed with the milk, if the latter cannot be depended on for richness, im- proves the taste of the coffee, as also the richness of the beverage. Sufficient.—6 tablespoonfuis of strong coffee, or 2 tablespoonfuis of the essence, to a breakfast-cupful of milk. Tea and Cofpee.—It is true, says Liebig, that thousands have lived without a know- ledge of tea and coffee; and daily experience teaches us that, under certain circum- stances, they may be dispensed with without disadvantage to the merely animal functions ; but it is an error, certainly, to conclude from this that they may be altogether dispensed with in reference to their effects; and it is a question whether, if we had no tea and no coffee, the popular instinct would not seek for and discover the means of replacing them. Science, which accuses us of so much in these respects, will have, in the first