741 CP.EAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ICO. a gentle oven until perfectly tender, but do not allow them to break. "When done, lay the pears in a plain mould, which should be well wetted, and boil i pint of the liquor the pears were baked in with tlie wine, lemon-peel, strained juice, and gelatine. Let these ingredients boil quickly for 5 minutes, then strain the liquid warm over the pears; put the mould in a cool place, and when the jelly is firm, turn it out on a glass dish. Time—2 hours to bake the pears in a cool oven. Average costy Is. Zd, Sufficient for a quart mould. Seasonable from August to February PINEAPPLE FRITTERS. {An elegant Dish.) 147-. iKcrtEDiENTS.—A small pineapple, a small wineglassful of brandy or liqueur, 2 oz. of sifted sugar; batter as for apple fritters IN'o. 1393. Mode.—This elegant dish, although it may appear extravagant, is really not so if made when pineapples are plentiful. "We receive them now in such large quantities from the West Indies, that at times they may be purchased at an exceedingly low rate; it would not, of course, be economical to use the pines which are grown in our English pineries for the purposes of fritters. Pare the pine with as little waste as possible, cut it into rather thin slices, and soak these slices in the above proportion of brandy or liqueur and pounded sugar for 4 hours ; then 1 make a batter the same as for apple fritters, substituting cream for 1 the milk, and using a smaller quantity of flour; and, when this is I ready, dip in the pieces of pine, and fry them in boiling lard from 5 to 8 minutes ; turn them when sufficiently brown on one side, and, when done, drain them from the lard before the fire, dish them on a white d'oyley, strew over them sifted sugar, and serve quickly. Time.—5 to 8 minutes. Average costy when cheap and plentiful. Is. Gd, for the pine. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonalle in July and August. Pineapple.—The pineapple hi\s not been known in Europe above two hundred year?, I and has not been cultivated in England much above a century. It is stated tliat the first : pineapples raised in Europe were by M. La Cour, of Leyden, alioiU the middle of the 17th century ; and it is said to have been first cultivated in England by Sir Matthew Decker, of Kichmond. In Kensington Palace, there is a picture in which Charles II. is j represented as receiving a pineapple from his gardener Eose, who is presenting it on his knees, PLAIN FRITTERS. 1473. Ingredients.—3 oz. of flour, 3 eggs, j- pint of milk, j 3Jof7e.—Mix the flour to a smooth batter with a small quantity of I the milk ; stir in the eggs, which should be well whisked, and thea