HOUSEHOLD MANAGEJIElsT. particularly imperative towards the close of tlie disease,—two of these powders given at once, according to the age, will be found to produce that effect; that is, two of the twelve for a child under four years, and two of the eight, and two of the six, according to the age of the patient. ^55^- When the difficulty of breathing becomes oppressive, as it generally does towards night, a hot bran poultice, laid on the chest, will be always found highly beneficial. The diet throughout must be light, and consist of farinaceous food, such as rice and sago puddings, beef-tea and toast; and not till convalescence sets in should hard or animal food be given. -557- When measles assume the malignant form, the advice just given must be broken through ; food of a nutritious and stimulating character should bo at once substituted, and administered in conjunction with wine, and even spirits, and the disease regarded and treated as a case of typhus. But, as this form of measles is not frequent, and, if occurring, hardly likely to be treated without assistance, it is unnecessary to enter on the minutice of its practice here. What we have prescribed, in almost all cases, will be found sufficient to meet every emergency, without resorting to a multiplicity of agents. 2558. The great point to remember in measles is, not to give up the treat- ment with the apparent subsidence of the disease, as the after-consequences of measles are too often more serious, and to be more dreaded, than the measles themselves. To guard against this danger, and thoroughly purify the system, after the subsidence of all the symptoms of the disease, a corrective course of medicine, and a regimen of exercise, should be adopted for some weeks after ihe cure of the disease. To effect this, an active aperient powder should be given every three or four days, with a daily dose of the subjoined tonic mix- ture, with as much exercise, by walking, running after a hoop, or other bodily exertion, as the strength of the child and the state of the atmosphere will admit, the patient being, wherever possible, removed to a purer air as soon as convalescence warrants the change. 2559. ^onic Ilixlure.—Take of infusion of rose-leaves, 6 ounces ; quinine, ^ grains; diluted sulphuric acid, 15 drops. Mix. Dose, from half a tea- spoonful up to a dessertspoonful, once a day, according to the age of the patient. Scarlatina, or Scarlet Fever. 2560. Though professional accuracy has divided this disease into several forms, we shall keep to the one disease most generally met with, the common or simple scarlet fever, which, in all cases, is characterized by an excessive heat on the skin, sore throat, and a peculiar speckled appearance of the tongue. 2561. Sym])toms.—Cold chills, shivering, nausea, thirst, hot skin, quick pulse, with difficulty of swallowing; the tongue is coated, presenting through