907 DINNERS AND DINING. We gladly quote passages like these, to show how eatmg and drinking may be surrounded with poetical associations, and how man, using his privilege to turn any and every repast into a feast of reason," with a warm and plentiful flow of soul," may really count it as not the least of his legitimate prides, that he is a dining animal." 1882. It has been said, indeed, that great men, in general, are great diners. This, however, can scarcely be true of any great men but men of action ; and, in that case, it would simply imply that persons of vigorous constitution, who •work hard, eat heartily; for, of course, a Hfe of action requires a vigorous constitution, even though there may be much ilhiess, as in such cases as William III. and our brave General Napier. Of men of thought, it can scarcely be true that they eat so much, in a general way, though even they eat more than they are apt to suppose they do ; for, as Mr. Lewes observes, ^' nerve- tissue is very expensive." Leaving great men of all kinds, however, to get their own dinners, let us, who are not great, look after ours. Dine we must, and we may as well dine elegantly as well as wholesomely. 1883. There are plenty of elegant dinners in modern days, and they were not wanting in ancient times. It is well known that the dinner-party, or symposium, was a not unimportant, and not unpoetical, feature in the life of the sociable, talkative, tasteful Greek. Douglas Jerrold said that such is the British humour for dining and giving of dinners, that if London were to be destroyed by an earthquake, the Londoners would meet at a public dinner to consider the subject. The Greeks, too, were great diners : their social and religious polity gave them many chances of being merry and making others merry on good eating and drinking. Any public or even domestic sacrifice to one of the gods, was sure to be followed by a dinner-party, the remains of the slaughtered offering " being served up on the occasion as a -pious 2nece de resistance ; and as the different gods, goddesses, and demigods, worshipped by the community in general, or by individuals, were very numerous indeed, and some very rehgious people never let a day pass without offering up something or other, the dinner-parties were countless. A birthday, too, was an excuse for d dinner; a birthday, that is, of any person long dead and buried, as well as of a living person, being a member of the family, or otherwise esteemed. Dinners were, of course, eaten on all occasions of public rejoicing. Then, -among the young people, subscription dinners, very much after the manner ^f modern times, were always being got up ; only that they would be eaten not at an hotel, but probably at the house of one of the heterce. A Greek dinner-party was a handsome, well-regulated affair. The guests came in elegantly dressed and crowned with flowers. A slave, approaching each person as he entered, took off his sandals and washed his feet. During the repast, the guests reclined on couches with pillows, among and along which were set small tables. After the solid meal came the *^ symposium " proper, a scene of music, merriment, and dancing, the two latter being supplied chiefly by young girls. There was a chairman, or sjTnposiarch, appointed by the