MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 6U serve very hot. Boiling milk substituted for the boiling water would . very much improve this pudding. Ti77ie.—li hour. Average cost, ed,, exclusive of the bread. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. SeasonaUe at any time BOILED BREAD PUDDIITa. 1252. Ingeedients.—1^ pint of milk, f pint of bread crumbs, sugar to taste, 4 eggs, 1 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of currants, J teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mode.—Make the milk boiling, and pour it on the bread crumbs; let these remain till cold; then add the other ingredients, taking care that the eggs are well beaten and the currants well w^ashed, picked, and dried. Beat the pudding well, and put it into a buttered basin; tie it down tightly wdth a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for Ij hour; turn it out of the basin, and serve with sifted sugar. Any odd pieces or scraps of bread answer for this pudding; but they should be soaked overnight, and, when wanted for use, should have the water well squeezed from them. Time,—1^ hour. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. SeasonaUe at any time. Beead.—Bread contains, in its composition, in the form of vegetable albumen and vegetable fibrine, two of the chief constituents of flesh, and, in its incombustible con- stituents, the salts which are indispensable for sanguification, of the same quality and in the same proportion as flesh. But flesh contains, besides these, a number of sub- stances which are entirely wanting in vegetable food; and on these peculiar constituents of flesh depend certain effects, by which it is essentially distinguished from other articles of food. BBOWN-BBEAD PUDDITsTG. 1253. Ingredients.—| lb. of brown-bread crumbs, i lb. of currants, 1 lb. of suet, i lb. of moist sugar, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, , 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, grated nutmeg to taste. 3£ode.—Grrate | lb. of crumbs from a stale brown loaf; add to these \ the currants and suet, and be particular that the latter is finely | chopped. Put in the remaining ingredients ; beat the pudding well for a few minutes; put it into a buttered basin or mould; tie it down tightly, and boil for nearly 4 hours. Send sweet sauce to table with it. Time.—Nearly 4 hours. Average cost, Is. 6d, Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time ; but more suitable for a winter pudding. MINIATUBE BREAD PUDDINGS. 1254. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, i lb. of bread crumbs, 4 j eggs, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 1^. teaspoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel.