MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 2U not to burn them; tie them up in paper bags, and keep in a dry plaj^e. This is a very general way of preserving dried herbs ; but we would recommend the plan described in a former recipe. Seasonable.—From the month of July to the end of September is the proper time for storing herbs for winter use. HERB POWDEB FOB FLAVOUBIlSra, wlien Fresh Herbs are not obtainable. 446. Iis^GREDiENTS.—1 oz. of dried lemon-thyme, 1 oz. of dried winter savory, 1 oz. of dried sweet marjoram and basil, 2 oz. of dried parsley, 1 oz. of dried lemon-peel. Mode.—Prepare and dry the herbs by recipe No. 445; pick the leaves from the stalks, pound them, and sift them through a hair-sieve; mix in the above proportions, and keep in glass bottles, carefully excluding the air. This, we think, a far better method of keeping herbs, as the flavour and fragrance do not evaporate so much as when they are merely put in paper bags. Preparing them in this way, you have them ready for use at a moment's notice. Mint, sage, parsley, &c., dried, pounded, and each put into separate bottles, will be found very useful in winter. COrvK WITH CoEKS WITH V/ooDEisT Tops.—Tliese are tlie best corks to use •WOODEK TOP. when it is indispensable tlia,t the air should not be admitted to the ingredients contained in bottles which are in constant use. The top, which, as will be seen by the accompanying .little cut, is larger than the cork, is made of wood; and, besides effectually covering the whole top of the bottle, can be easily removed and again used, as no corkscrew is necessary to pull it out. Savort.—This we find described by Columella, a voluminous Eoman writer on agri- culture, as an odoriferous herb, which, "in the brave days of old," entered into the seasoning of nearly every dish. Verily, there are but few new things under the sun, and we don't find that we have made many discoveries in gastronomy, at least beyond what was known to the ancient inhabitants of Italy. We possess two varieties of this aromatic herb, known to naturalists as Satureja. They are called summer and winter savory, according to the time of the year when they are fit for gathering. Both sorts are in general cultivation throughout England. HOBSEBADISH SAUCE, to serve with Boast Beef. 447. INGREDIE:^TTS.—4 tablespooufuls of grated horseradish, 1 tea- spoonful of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of made mustard ; vinegar. Mode,—Grate the horseradish, and mix it well with the sugar, salt, pepper, and mustard ; moisten it with sufficient vinegar to give it the consistency of cream, and serve in a tureen : 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of cream added to the above, very much improve the appearance and flavour of this sauce. To heat it to serve with hot