EEAP.ING, ETC.^ OF CHILDREN. 1041 readers to understand us perfectly ou this head ; all we desire to prove is the fact that a child can be brought up as well on a spoon dietary as the best examiDle to be found of those reared on the breast; having more strength, in- deed, from the more nutritious food on which it lives. It will be thus less liable to infectious diseases, and more capable of resisting the virulence of any danger that may attack it; and without in any way depreciating the nutriment of its natural food, we wish to impress on the mother's mind that there are many cases of infantine debility which might eventuate in rickets, curvature of the spine, or mesenteric disease, where the addition to, or total substitution ol", an artificial and more stimulating aliment, would not only give tone and strength to the constitution, but at the same time render the employment of mechanical means totally unnecessary. And, finally, though we would never —where the mother had the strength to suckle her child—supersede the breast, we would insist on making it a rule to accustom the child as early as possible to the use of an artificial diet, not only that it may acquire more vigour to help it over the ills of childhood, but that, in the absence of the mother, it might not miss the maternal sustenance ; and also for the parent's sake, that, should the milk, from any cause, become vitiated, or suddenly cease, the child can be made over to the bottle and the spoon without the slightest appre- hension of hurtful consequences. 2498. To those persons unacquainted with the system, or who may have been erroneously informed on the matter, the rearing of a child by hand may seem surrounded by innumerable difficulties, and a large amount of personal trouble and anxiety to the nurse or mother who undertakes the duty. This, iiowever, is a fallacy in every respect, except as regards the fact of preparing the food ; but even this extra amount of work, by adopting the course we shall lay down, may be reduced to a very small sum of inconvenience ; and as respects anxiety, the only thing calling for care is the display of judgment in the preparation of the food. The articles required for the purpose of feeding an mfant are a night-lamp, with its pan and lid, to keep the food warm ; a nursing-bottle, with a prepared teat; and a small pai3 saucepan, for use by day. Of the lamp we need hardly speak, most mothers being acquainted with its operation : but to those to whom it is unknown we may observe, that the ilame from the floating rushlight heats the v/ater in the reservoir above, in which the covered pan that contains the food floats, keeping it at such a heat that, when thinned by milk, it will be of a temperature suitable for immediate use. Though many kinds of nursing-bottles have been lately invented, and some mounted with India-rubber nij^ples, the common glass bottle, with the calf's teat, is equal in cleanliness and utility to any; besides, the nipple put into the child's mouth is so white and natural in appearance, that no child taken from the breast will refuse it. The black artificial ones of caoutchouc or gutta-percha are unnatural. The prepared teats can be obtained at any chemist's, and as they are kept in spirits, they will require a little soaking in warm water, and gentle washing, before being tied securely, by means of fin<> twine, round the neck of the bottle, just sufficient being left projecting for 3 X