1004 HOUSSnOTJ) MxVITAGEMENT. yet we sliould advise all housekeepers, to whom the outlay is not a difficultj-, to avail themselves of the services of a machine. We have already spoken of its management in the ^'Duties of the Footman," No. 2177. 2352. When the servant is dressed, she takes in the tea, and after tea turns Aown the beds, sees that the water-jugs and bottles are full, closes the windows, ftnd draws down the blinds. If the weather is very warm, these are usually left open until the last thing at night, to cool the rooms. 2353. The routine of a general servant's duties depends upon the khid of situation she occupies ; but a systematic maid-of-all-work should so contrive to divide her work, that every day in the week may have its proper share. By this means she is able to keep the house clean with less fatigue to herself than if she left all the cleaning to do at the end of the week. Sui:)posing there are five bedrooms in the house, two sitting-rooms, kitchen, scullery, and the usual domestic offices :—on Monday she should thoroughly clean the drawing- room ; on Tuesday, two of the bedrooms; on Wednesday, two more; on Thursday, the other bedroom and stairs; on Friday morning she should sweep the dining-room very thoroughly, clean the hall, and in the afternoon her kitchen tins and bright utensils. By arranging her work in this manner, no undue proportion will fall to Saturday's share, and she will then have this day for cleaning plate, cleaning her kitchen, and arranging everything in nice order. The regular work must, of course, be performed in the usual manner, as we have endeavoured to describe. 2354. Before retiring to bed, she will do well to clean up glasses, plates, &c. which have been used for the evening meal, and prepare for her morning's work by placing her wood near the fire, on the hob, to dr}', taking care there is no danger of it igniting, before she leaves the kitchen for the night. Before retiring, she will have to lock and bolt the doors, unless the master undertakes this office himself. 2355. If the washing, or even a portion of it, is done at home, it will be im- X^ossible for the m.aid-of-all-work to do her household duties thoroughly, daring the time it is about, unless she have some assistance. Usually, if all the washing is done at home, the mistress hires some one to assist at the wash-tub, and sees to little matters herself, in the way of dusting, clearing uv/ay breakfast things, folding, starching, and ironing the fine things. With a little management much can be accomplished, provided the mistress be in- dustrious, energetic, and willing to lend a helping hand. Let washing-week be not the excuse for having everything in a muddle ; and although '^things'* cannot be cleaned so thoroughly, and so much time spent upon them, as ordinarily, yet the house may be kept tidy and clear from litter without a great deal of exertion either on the part of the mistress or servant. We will conclude our remarks with an extract from an admirably-written book, called ** Home Truths for Home Peace." The authoress says, with respect to the