TISH. Ajtcient mode 01? CooKiJTG THE LoBSTEK.—"When this fish was to be served for lha table, among the ancients, it was opened len^^thwise, and filled with a gravy composed of coriander and pepper. It was then pnton the gridiron and slowly cooked, whiiit it was being basted with the same kind of gravy witli which the flesh had become impregnated. TO DBESS LOBSTEKS, 276. When the lobster is boiled, rub it over with a little salad-oil, which wipe off again; separate the body from the tail, break off the great claws, and crack them at the joints, without injuring the meat; split the tail in halves, and arrange all neatly in a dish, with the body upright in the middle, and garnish with parsley. {See Coloured Plate, H.) LOBSTEB PATTIES (an Entree). 277. I^^GHELiENTS.—Mincod lobstor, 4 tablespoonfuls of bechamel, 6 drops of anchovy sauce, lemon-juice, cayenne to taste. Ilode.—Line the patty-pans with puff-paste, and.put into each a small piece of bread ; cover with paste, brush over with egg, and bake of a light colour. Take as much lobster as is required, mince the meat very fine, and add the above ingredients ; stir it over the fire for 5 minutes ; remove the lids of the patty-cases, take out the bread, fill with the mixture, and replace the covers. Seasonahle at any time. Local Attachment op the Lobster.—It is said that the attachment of this animal is strong to some particular parts of the sea, a circumstance celebrated in the following lines:— Konght like their home the constant lobsters prize, And foreign shores and seas unknown despise. Though cruel hands the banish'd wretch expel, And force the captive from his native cell. He will, if freed, return Avith anxious care, Pind the known rock, and to his home repair; No novel customs learns in different seas. But wonted food and home-taught manners please.** POTTED LOBSTEE. 278. Ingeediexts.—2 lobsters ; seasoning to taste, of nutmeg, pounded mace, white pepper, and salt; i lb. of butter, 3 or 4 bay-leaves. 3Iode.—Take out the meat carefully from the shell, but do not cut it up. Pat some butter at the bottom a dish, lay in the lobster as evenly as possible, with the bay-leaves and seasoning between. Cover with butter, and bake for f hour in a gentle oven. When done, drain the whole on a sieve, and lay the pieces in potting-jars, with the seasoning about them. When cold, pour over it clarified butter, and, if very highly seasoned, it v/ill keep some time. Time,— f hour. Average cost for this quantity, 45. 4cl, Seasojiahle at any time. ^ote.—Potted lobster may be used cold, or as fricassee with cream sr.ixo..