GAME. 515 EOAST WILD DTrCK, feet; some twist eacli leg at the knuckle, and rest tlie claws on each side of the breast; others truss them as shown in our illustration, lloast the birds before a quick fire, and, when they are first put down, let them remain for 5 minutes without basting (this will keep the gravy in); afterwards baste plen- tifully with butter, and a few minutes before serving dredge them lightly with flour; baste well, and send them to table nicely frothed, and full of gravy. If overdone, the birds will lose their flavour. Serve with a good gravy in the dish, or orange gravy, "No. 488 ; and send to table with them a cut lemon. To take ofi" the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, baste them for a few minutes with hot water to which have been added an onion and a little salt; then take away the pan, and baste with butter.—See coloured plate, Gr 1. Time.—"When liked underdressed, 20 to 25 minutes; well done, 25 to 35 minutes. Average cost, 4s. to 5s. the couple. Sufficient,—2 for a dish. Seasonable from November to February. The Wild Duck.—The male of tlie wild duck is called a mallard; and the young ones are called flappers. The time to try to find a brood of these is about the month of July, among the rushes of the deepest and most retired parts of some brook or stream, where, if the old bird is sprung, it may be taken as a certainty that its brood is not far off. When once found, flappers are easily killed, as they attain their full growth before their wings are fledged. Consequently, the sport is more like hunting water-rats than shoot- ing birds. When the flappers take wing, they assume the name of wild ducks, and about the month of August repair to the corn-fields, where they remain lentil they are disturbed by the harvest- people. They then frequent the rivers pretty early in the evening, and give excellent sj)ort to those who have pa- tience to wait for them. In order to know a wild due' the claws, which should be black. TES WILD DUCK. , it is necessary only to look at HASHED GAME (Cold Meat Cookery). 1023. Ii^GEEDiEjiTTS.—The remains of cold game, 1 onion stuck with 3 cloves, a few whole peppers, a strip of lemon-peel, salt to taste, thickening of butter and flour, 1 glass of port wine, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 pint of water or weak stock. Mode.—Cnt the remains of cold game into joints, reserve the best 2 L 2