MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. dish may eventuate in the placing a quantity of the gravy in the lap of the right or left-hand supporter of the host. We will endeavour to assist those who are unacquainted with the ** gentle art of carving," and also those who are but slightly acquainted with it, by simply de- scribing the rules to follow, and referring to the dis- tinctly-marked illustrations of each dish, which will further help to bring light to the minds of the unini- tiated. If the bird be a young duckling, it may be carved like a fowl, viz., by first taking off the leg and the wing on either side, as described at Fo. 1000; but i^iibr, wijNw, ill cases where the duckling is very small, it Vvill be ^^OT^ucK^^^ ^''^"^^ separajte the leg from the wing, as they will not then form too large a portion for a single serving. After the legs and wings are disposed of, the remainder of the duck will be also carved in the same manner as a fowl; and not much difficulty will be experienced, as ducklings are tender, and the joints are easily broken by a little gentle forcing, or penetrated by the knife. In cases where the duck is a large bird, the better plan to pursue is then to carve it like a goose, that is, by cutting pieces from the breast in the direction indicated by the lines marked from 1 to 2, commencing to carve the slices close to the wing, and then proceeding upwards from that to the breastbone. If more should be wanted than can be obtained from both sides of the breast, then the legs and wings must be attacked, in the same way as is described in connection with carving a fowl. It may be here remarked, that as the legs of a duck are placed far more backward than those of a fowl, their position causing the waddling motion of the bird, the thigh-bones will be found considerably nearer towards the backbone than in a chicken: this is the only difference worth mentioning. The carver should ask each guest if a portion of stuffing would be agreeable ; and in order to get at this, a cut should be made below the breast, as shown by the line from 3 to 4, at the part called the " apron," and the spoon inserted. (As described in the recipe, it is an excellent plan, when a couple of ducks are served, to have one with, and the other without stuffing.) As to the prime parts of a duck, it has been said that " the wing of o, ffier and the leg of a swimmer" are severally the best portions. Some persons are fond of the feet of the duck ; and, in trussing, these should never be taken off. The leg, wing, and neckbone are here shown ; so that it will be easy to see the shape they should be when cut Q^,