MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 686 it; prick a few holes at the bottom with a fork, and bake the tart in a brisk oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Let the paste cool a little ; then fill it with preserve, place a few stars or leaves on it, which have been previously cut out of the paste and baked, and the tart is ready for table. By making it in this manner, both the tavour and colour of the jam are preserved, which would otherwise be lost, were it baked in the oven on the paste ; and, besides, so much jam is not required. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, ^d. Sufficient,—1 tart for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. Strawbeery.—The name of this favourite fruit is said to be derived from an ancient custom ol putting straw beneath the fruit when it began to ripen, which is very useful to keep it moist and clean. The strawberry belongs to temperate and rather cold cUmates; and no fruit of these latitudes, that ripens without the aid of artificial heat, is at all com- parable with it in point ot flavour. The strawberry is widely diffused, being found in most parts of the world, particularly in Europe and America. QUICKLY-MADE PUDDINGS. 1366. Ingeedients.—J lb. of butter, i lb. of sifted sugar, I lb. of flour, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, a little grated lemon-rind. Mode.—Make the milk hot; stir in the butter, and let it cool before the other ingredients are added to it; then stir in the sugar, flour, and eggs, which should be well whisked, and omit the whites of 2; flavour with a little grated lemon-rind, and beat the mixture well. Butter some small cups, rather more than half fill them; bake from 20 minutes to ^ hour, according to the size of the puddings, and serve with fruit, custard, or wine sauce, a little of which may be poured over them. Time.—20 minutes to i hour. Average cost. Is. 2d, Sufficient for 6 puddings. Seasonable at any time. - • SAGO PUDDING. i3^>7. Ikgeedients.—1^ pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sago, the rind of i lemon, 3oz. of sugar, 4 eggs, l-J oz. of butter, grated nutmeg, pufi'-paste. Mode.—Put the milk and lemon-rind into a stewpan, place it by the side of the fire, and let it remain until the milk is well flavoured with the lemon ; then strain it, mix with it the sago and sugar, and simmer gently for about 15 minutes. Let the mixture cool a little, and stir to it the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the butter. Line the edges of a pie-dish with pufi'-paste, pour in the pudding, grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake from f to 1 hour. Time.—f to 1 hour, or longer if the oven is very slow. Average cost, Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time.