£08 MODEBN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. some ; but it should be quite free from rancidity. If slightly salted when it is fresh, its wholesomeness is probably not at all impaired ; but shguld it begin to turn rancid, salting will not correct its unwholesonieness. When salt butter is put into casks, the upper part next the air is very apt to become rancid, and this rancidity is also liable to affect the whole cask. 1618. Eppmg butter is the kind most esteemed in London. Fresh butter comes to London from Buckinghamshire, Suffolk, Oxfordshire, Yorkshire, Devonshire, &c. Cambridge butter is esteemed next to fresh ; DevoJisJiire butter is nearly similar in quality to the latter ; Irish butter sold in London is all salted, but is generally good. The number of firkins exported annually from Ireland amounts to 420,000, equal to a million of money. Butch butter is in good repute all over Europe, America, and even India ; and no country in the world is so successful in the manufacture of this article, Holland supplying more butter to the rest of the world than any country whatever. 1619. There are two methods pursued in the manufacture of butter. In one, the cream is separated from the milk, and in that state it is converted into but- ter by churning, as is the practice about Epping ; in the other, milk is subjected to the same process, which is the method usually followed in Cheshire. The first method is generally said to give the richest butter, and the latter the largest quantity, though some are of opinion that there is little difference either in quality or quantity. O !Ej S ]Ej • 1620. Cheese is the curd formed from milk by artificial coagulation, pressed and dried for use. Curd, called also casein and caseous matter, or the basis ot cheese, exists in the milk, and not in the cream, and requires only to be sepa- rated by coagulation. The coagulation, hov/ever, supposes some alteration of the curd. By means of the substance employed to coagulate it, it is rendered insoluble in water. When the curd is freed from the whey, kneaded and pressed to expel it entirely, it becomes cheese. This assumes a degree of transparency, and possesses many of the properties of coagulated albumen. If it be well dried, it does not change by exposure to the air; but if it contain moisture, it soon putrefies. It thereibre requires some salt to preserve it, and this acts likewise as a kind oi seasoning. All our cheese is coloured more or less, except that made from skim milk. The colouring substances employed are arnatto, turmeric, or marigold, all perfectly harmless unless they arc adulterated ; and it is said that arnatto sometimes contains red lead. 1621. Cheese varies in quality and richness according to the materials of which it is composed. It is made—1. Of entire milk, as in Cheshire ; 2. of milk and cream, as at Stilton ; 3. of new milk mixed with skimmed milk, as in Glou* cestershire; 4. of skimmed milk only, as in Suffolk, Holland, and Italy.