800 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. nice soft corks or bungs. Pick the stalks from the strawberries, drop them into the bottles, sprinkling amongst them pounded sugar in the above proportion, and when the fruit reaches to the neck of the bottle, fill up with sherry or Madeira. Cork the bottles down with new corks, and dip them into melted resin. tSeasonahle.—Make this in June or July. TO PBESERVE STEAWBEHRIES WHOLE. 1596. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of fruit allow li lb. of good loaf sugar, 1 pint of red-currant juice. 3fode.—'Choose the strawberries not too ripe, of a fine large sort and of a good colour. Pick off the stalks, lay the strawberries in a dish, and sprinkle over them half the quantity of sugar, which must be finely pounded. Shake the dish gently, that the sugar may be equally distributed and touch the under-side of the fruit, and let it remain for 1 day. Then have ready the currant-juice, drawn as for red-currant jelly 'No. 1533 ; boil it with the remainder of the sugar until it forms a thin syrup, and in this simmer the strawberries and sugar, until the whole is sufficiently jellied. Great care must be taken not to stir the fruit roughly, as it should be preserved as whole as possible. Strawberries prepared in this manner are very good served in glasses and mixed with thin cream. Time.—j hour to 20 minutes to simmer the strawberries in the syrup. Seasoiiahle in June and July. TO MAKE EVERTON TOPPEE. 1597. Ingkedients.—1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, 1 teacupfal of water, | lb. of butter, 6 drops of essence of lemon. Mode.—Vut the v/ater and sugar into a brass pan, and beat the butter to a cream. When the sugar is dissolved, add the butter, and keep stirring the mixture over the fire until it sets, when a little is poured on to a buttered dish ; and just before the toffee is done, add the essence of lemon. Butter a dish or tin, pour on it the mixture, and when cool, it will easily separate from the dish. Butter-Scotch, an excellent thing for coughs, is made with brown, instead of white sugar, omitting the water, and flavoured with | oz. of powdered ginger. It is made in the same manner as toffee. Time.—18 to 35 minutes. Average cost, 10c?. Sufficient to make a lb. of toftee. i