VEAL. 407 parsley in layers, with a little pepper between each, and when the mould is full, get some strong stock, and fill up the shape. Bake for ^ hour, and when cold, turn it out. Time.—i hour. Seasonable at any time. BOILED CALF'S FEET AND PABSLEY^AND BUTTEK. 860. Ingredients.—2 calf's feet, 2 slices of bacon, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon-juice, salt and whole pepper to taste, 1 onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, 4 cloves, 1 blade of mace, water, parsley and butter No. 493. Mode.—FioGuve 2 white calf s feet; bone them as far as the first joint, and put them into warm water to soak for 2 hours. Then put the bacon, butter, lemon-juice, onion, herbs, spices, and seasoning into a stewpan ; lay in the feet, and pour in just sufficient water to cover the whole. Stew gently for about 3 hours ; take out the feet, dish them, and cover with parsley and butter, made by recipe No. 493. The liquor they were boiled in should be strained and put by in a clean basin for use : it will be found very good as an addition to gravies, &c. &c. Time.—Rather more than 3 hours. Average cost^ in full season, 9d, each. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from March to October. When a Calf should be Killed.—The age at which a calf ought to be killed should not be under four weeks : before that time the flesh is certainly not wholesome, wanting firmness, due development of muscular fibre, and those animal juices on wliich the flavour and nutritive properties of the flesh depend, whatever the unhealthy palate of epicures may deem to the contrary. In France, a law exists to prevent the slaughtering of calves under six weeJcs of age. The calf is considered in prime condition at ten weeks, when he wiU weigh from sixteen to eighteen stone, and sometimes even twenty. FBICASSEED CALF'S FEET. 861. Ingeedients.—A set of calf's feet; for the batter allow for each egg 1 tablespoonful of fiour, 1 tablespoonful of bread crumbs, hot lard or clarified dripping, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—If the feet are purchased uncleaned, dip them into warm water repeatedly, and scrape off the hair, first one foot and then the other, until the skin looks perfectly clean, a saucepan of water being kept by the fire until they are finished. After washing and soaking in cold water, boil them in just sufficient water to cover them, until the bones come easily away. Then pick them out, and after straining the liquor into a clean vessel, put the meat into a pie-dish until the next day. Now cut it down in slices about k inch thick, lay on them a