MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, teaspoonful of salt, i lb. of rice. IFIIiLET OF VEAIi AU BSOHAMEL (Cold Meat Cookery). 883. Ii^GREDiENTS.—A small fillet of veal, 1 pint of Becliamel sauce Ho. 367, a few bread crumbs, clarified butter. 3fode,—A fillet of veal that has been roasted the preceding day will ans v/er very well for this dish. Cut the middle out rather deep, leaving a good margin round, from which to cut nice slices, and if there should be any cracks in the veal, fill them up with forcemeat. Mince finely the meat that was taken out, mixing with it a little of the forcemeat to flavour, and stir to it sufficient Bechamel to make it of a proper consistency. Warm the veal in the oven for about an hour, taking care to baste it well, that it may not be dry; put the mince in the place where the meat was taken out, sprinkle a few bread crumbs over it, and drop a little clarified butter en the bread crumbs; put it into the oven for i hour to brown, and pour Bechamel round the sides of the dish. Time.—Altogether li hour. Seasonahle from March to October. TO BAGOUT A KNUCKLE OF VEAL. 884. IiTGEEDiENTS.—Kuuckle of vcal, pepper and salt to taste, flour, 1 onion, 1 head of celery, or a little celery-seed, a faggot of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, thickening of butter and flour, a few young carrots, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of tomato sauce, 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry, the juice of | lemon. Mode—Qwi the meat from a knuckle of veal into neat slices, season with pepper and salt, and dredge them with flour. Fry them in a little butter of a pale brown, and put them into a stewpan vrith the bone (which should be chopped in several places); add the celery, herbs, mace, and carrots; pour over all about 1 pint of hot water, and let it simmer very gently for 2 hours, over a slow but clear fire. Take out the slices of meat and carrots, strain and thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour ; add the remaining ingredients, give one boil, put back the meat and carrots, let these get hot through, and serve. When in season, a few green peas, hoiled separately, and added to this dish at the moment of serving, would be found a very agreeable addition. Time,—2 hours. Average cost, 5d. to 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. STEWED KNUCKLE OP VEAL AND BICE. 885. Ingredients.—Knuckle of veal, 1 onion, 2 blades of mace, 1