PREBERVES^ CO^'FECTIONARY; ETC. 773 Mode.—Pick the currants from the stalks, and put them into a jar ; place this jar in a saucepan of hoiling- water, and simmer until the juice is well drawn from the fruit, which will be in from f to 1 hour. Then strain -the currants through a fine cloth or jelly-hag; do not squeeze them too much, or the jelly will not he clear, and put the juice into a very clean preserving-pan, with the sugar. Let this simmer gently over a clear fire until it is firm, and keep stirring and skimming until it is done; then pour it into small pots, cover them, and store away in a dry place. Time.—'I hour to draw the juice ; ^ hour to boil the jelly. Average cost, from Sd. to lOt^. per -^-Ib. pot. Sufficient—From 3 pints to 2 quarts of fruit should yield 1 pint of juice. Seasonable in July and August. BAKED DAMSONS FOB WINTEB USS. 1535. iNaREDiENTS.—To cvery lb, of fruit allow 6 oz. of pounded sugar ; melted mutton suet. Mode.—Choose sound fruit, not too ^ipe ; pick off the stalks, weigh it, and to every lb. allow the above proportion of pounded sugar. Put the fruit into large dry stone jars, sprinkling the sugar amongst it ; cover the jars with saucers, place them in a rather cool oven, and bake the, fruit until it is quite tender. Yfhen cold, cover the top of the fruit with a piece of white paper cut to the size of the jar; pour over this melted mutton suet about an inch thick, and cover the tops of the jars with thick brown paper, well tied down. Keep the jars in a cool dry place, and the fruit will remain good till the following Christmas, but not much longer. Time.—From 5 to 6 hours to bake the damsons, in a very cool oven. Seasonable in September and October. DAMSON CHEESE. 1536. Ii^GEEDiEi^TS.—Damsons; to every lb. of fruit pulp allow I lb. of loaf sugar. 3£ode.—Tick the stalks from the damsons, and put them, into a preserving-pan ; simmer them over the' fire until they are soft, occa • sionally stirring them; then beat them through a coarse sieve, and put the pulp and juice into the preserving-pan, with sugar in the above proportion, having previously carefully weighed them. Stir the sugar well in, and simmer the damsons slowly for 2 hours. Skim well; then boil the preserve quickly for ^ hour, or until it looks firm and hard in the spoon ; put it quickly into shallow pots,