SAUCES, ETC. 225 For a fisli Mayonnaise, this sauce may be coloured with lobster- spawn, pounded ; and for poultry or meat, where variety is desired, a little parsley-juice may be used to add to its appearance. Cucumber, Tarragon, or any other flavoured vinegar, may be substituted for plain, where they are liked. Average cost, for this quantity, 7d. Sufficient for a small salad. Note.—In mixing the oil and vinegar with the eggs, put in first a few drops of oil, and then a few drops of vinegar, never adding a large quantity of either at one time, By this means, you can be more certain of the sauce not curdling. Patience and practice, let us add, are two essentials for making this sauce good. MINT SAUCE, to serve with. Koast Lamb. 4^9. Inghedients.—4 dessertspoonfuls of chopped mint, 2 dessert- spoonfuls of pounded white sugar, J pint of vinegar. Mode.—"Wash the mint, which should be young and fresh-gathered, free from grit; pick the leaves from the stalks, mince them very fine, and put them into a tureen; add the sugar and vinegar, and stir till the former is dissolved. This sauce is better by being made 2 or 3 hours before wanted for table, as the vinegar then becomes impreg- nated with the flavour or the mint. By many persons, the above pro- portion of sugar would not be considered sufficient; but as tastes vary, we have given the quantity which we have found to suit the general palate. Average cost, Sd. Sufficient to serve with a middling-sized joint of lamb. licte.—Where green mint is scarce and not obtainable, mint vinegar may be substituted for it, and will be found very acceptable in early spring. Mtin't.—The common mint criltivated in our gardens is known as the Mentha viridis, and is employed in diiferent culinary processes, heing sometimes boiled with certain dishes, and ai'terwards with- drawn. It has an agree'able aromatic flavour, and forms an in- gredient in soups, and sometimes is used in spring salads. It is MIUT. valuable as a stomachic and antispasmodic; on which account it is generally served at table with pea-soup. Several of its species grow wild iu low situations iu the country. MINT VIHEGAS. 470. IiTGREDiEKTS.—Yiuegar, mint. IfocZe,—Procure some nice fresh mint, pick the leaves from the stalks, and fill a bottle or jar with them. Add vinegar to them until Q