6-14 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. * Mode.—Vnt the bread crumbs into a basin with tlie sago, suet, sugar, minced lemon-peel, rum, and 4 eggs; stir these ingredients well together, then add 3 more eggs and the cream, and let the mix- ture be well beaten. Then butter a mould, strew in a few bread crumbs, and cover the bottom with a layer of ratafias ; then put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of sliced sponge cake spread thickly with any kind of jam ; then add some ratafias, then some of the mixture and sponge cake, and so on until the mould is full, taking care that a layer of the mixture is on the top of the pudding. Bake in a good oven from f to 1 hour, and serve with the following sauce :—Put 3 tablespoonfuls of black-currant jelly into a stewpan, add 2 glasses of sherry, and, when warm, turn the pudding out of the mould, pour the sauce over it, and serve hot. Time.—From 1 to Ij hour. Average cost, 2s. Gd. - Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. SeasonaUe at any time. Fia PUDDING. I. 1275. I]s-Gr.EDiENTS.—2 Ibs. of figs, 1 lb. of suet, i lb. of fiour, i lb. of bread crumbs, 2 eggs, milk. Irlodc—Qxit the figs into small pieces, grate the bread -finely, and chop the suet very small; mix these well together, add the flour, the eggs, which should be well beaten, and sufiicient milk to form the whole into a stiff paste; butter a mould or basin, press the pudding into it very closely, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 3 hours, or rather longer; turn it out of the mould, and serve with melted butter, wiiie-sauce, or cream. Time.—3 hours, or longer. Average cost, 2s. ■■. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. i.. Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter pudding. ^ ^. II. {Staff0 rdshire Recip e.) 1276. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of figs, 6 oz. of suet, f lb. of flour, milk. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix with it the flour, and make these into a smooth paste with milk; roll it out to the thickness of about § inch, cut the figs in small pieces, and strew them over the paste; roll it up, make the ends secure, tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil it from 14 to 2 hours. Time.—1-^- to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. Id.