DUTIES OF THE COACHMAN, ETC. 973 thoji take another hair-clotli, and rub all his legs exceeding well from the knees and hocks downwards to his hoofs, picking and dressing them very carefully about the fetlocks, so as to remove all gravel and dust which will sometimes lie in the bending of the joints." In addition to the practice of this old writer, modern grooms add wisping, which usually follows brushing. The best wisp is made from a hayband, untwisted, and again doubled up after being mois- tened with water: this is applied to every part of the body, as the brushing had been, by changing the hands, taking care in all these operations to carry the hand in the direction of the coat. Stains on the hair are removed, by sponging, or, when the coat is very dirty, by the water-brush; the whole being finished off by a linen or flannel cloth. The horsecloth should now be put on by taking the cloth in both hands, with the outside next you, and, with your right hand to the off side, throw it over his back, placing it no farther back than will leave it straight and level, which will be about a foot from the tail. Put the roller round, and the pad-piece under it, about six or eight inches from the fore legs. The horse's head is now loosened ; he is turned about in his stall to have his head and ears rubbed and brushed over every part, including throat, with the dusting-cloth, finishing by pulling his ears," which all horses seem to enjoy very much. This done, the mane and foretop should be combed out, passing a wet sponge over them, sponging the mane on both sides, by throwing it back to the midriff, to make it lie smooth. The horse is now returned to his headstall, his tail combed out, cleaning it of stains with a v/et brush or sponge, trimming both tail and mane, and forelock when'necessary, smoothing them down with a brush on which a little oil has been dropped. 2213. "Watering usually follows dressing; but some horses refuse their food imtil they have drunk : the groom should not, therefore, hiy down exclusive rules on this subject, but study the temper and habits of his horse. 2213. jExercise.—All horses not in work require at least two hours* exercise daily; and in exercising them a good groom will put them through the paces to which they have been trained. In the case of saddle-horses he will walk, trot, canter, and gallop them, in order to keep them up to their work. With draught horses they ought to be kept up to a smart walk and trot. 2214. Feeding must depend on their work, but they require feeding three thnes a day, with more or less corn each time, according to their work. In the fast coaching days it was a saying among proprietors, that " his belly was the measure of his food ;" but the horse's appetite is not to be taken as a criterion of the quantity of food under any circum- stances. Horses have been known to consume 40 lbs. of hay in twenty-four hours, whereas 16lbs. to 18 lbs. is the utmost which should have been given. Mr. Croall, an extensive coach proprietor in Scotland, limited his horses to 4-o-lbs. cut straw, 8 lbs. bruised oats, and 24lbs. bruised beans, in the morning and noon, giving them at night 23 lbs. of the following; viz., 560lbs. steamed potatoes,36lbs. barley-dust, 4/)lbs. cut straw, and 6lbs. salt, mixed up together : under this the horses did their work well. The ordinary measure given to a horse is a peck of oats, about 40 lbs. to the bushel, twice a day, a third feed and a rack-ful of hay, which may be about 15 lbs. or 18 lbs., when he is in full work. 2215. You cannot take up a paper without having the question put, *' Do you bruise your oats Well, that depends on circumstances: a fresh young horse can bruise its own oats when it can get them; but aged horses, after a time, lose the power of masti- cating and bruising them, and bolt them whole ; thus much impeding the work of diges- tion. For an old horse, then, bruise the oats ; for a young one it does no harm and little good. Oats should be bright and dry, and not too new. Where they are new, sprinkle them with salt and water ; otherwise, they overload the horse's stomach. Chopped straw mixed with oats, in the proportion of a third of straw or hay, is a good food for horses in full work; and carrots, of which horses are remarkably fond, have a perceptible effect in a short time on the gloss of the coat.