880 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. TEA. mixed tea, the usual proportion is four spoonfuls of black to one of green; more of the latter when the llavour is very much liked; but strong green tea is highly pernicious, and should never be partaken of too freely. Time.—2 minutes to warm the teapot, 5 to 10 minutes to draw the strength from the tea. Sufficient,—Allow 1 teaspoonful to each person, and one over. Tea.—The tea-tree or slirub belonf^s to the class and order of JMonadelphia polyandria in the Linu£ean system, and to the natural order of Aurmifiacece in the system of J ussieu. Lately it has been made into a new order, the Theasia, which includes the Camellia and some other plants. It commonly grows to the height of from three to six feet; but it is said, that, in its wild or native state, it reaches twenty feet or more. In Ctiina it is cultivated in numerous small plantations. In its general appearance, and the form of its leaf, it resembles the myrtle. The blossoms are white and fragrant, not unlike those ot the wild rose, but smaller; and they are succeeded by soft green capsules, containing each from one to three white seeds. These capsules are crusnea for oil, which is in general use in China. A3Sr EXOBLIiBHT SUBSTITUTli FOB MILik Oii CUE AM IN TEA OS, COFFEE. 1815. Ingeedients.—Allow I new-laid egg to every large hreakfast- cupful ol tea or coffee. llode—Jjeat up the whole of the egg in a basin, put it into a cup (or a portion of it, if the cup be small), and pour over it the tea or coffee very hot* These should be added very gradually, and stirred all the time, to prevent the egg from curdling. In point of nourish- ment, both these beverages are much improved by this addition. Sufficieiit.—Allow 1 egg to every large breakfast-cuptul of tea or coffee. TO MAKE COCOA. 1816. IngPvEDIENTS.—Allow 2 teaspoonfuis of the prepared cocoa to 1 breakfast-cup ; boiling milk and boiling water. Mode.—Pat the cocoa into a breakfast-cup, pour over it suiHcient cold milk to make it into a smooth paste; then add equal quantities ot boiling milk and boiling water, and stir all well together. Care must be taken not to allow the milk to get burnt, as it will entirely spoil tne llavour of the , preparation. The above directions are usually | given for making the prepared cocoa. The rock | cocoa, or that bought in a solid piece, should be scraped, and made in the same mannei, taking care to rub down all the lumps before the boil- , cocoA-BiSAir. ing liquid is added.