VEGETABLES. 577 Time.—\ hour. Average cost^ from 9d. to 25. per pint. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable—Mesidoyf miishrooms in September and October. To PEOCTJEE MtrsHEOOMS.—In order to obtain mushrooms at all seasons, several methods of propagation have been had recourse to. It is said that, in some parts of Italy, a species of stone is used for this purpose, which is described as being of two different kinds; the one is found in the chalk hills near IN'aples, and has a white, porous, stalactical appearance; the other is a hardened turf from some volcanic moantaina near Florence. These stones are kept in cellars, and occasionally moistened with water which has been used in the washing of mushrooms, and are thus supplied with their minute seeds. In this country, gardeners provide themselves with what is called spawn, either from the old manure of cucumber-beds, or purchase it from those whose business it is to propagate it. When thus procured, it is usually made up for sale in quadriis, consisting of numerous white fibrous roots, having a strong smell of mushrooms. This is planted in rows, in a dry situation, and carefully attended to for five or six weeks, when the bed begins to produce, and continues to do so for several months. STEWED MUSHROOMS IN GBAVY. na8. Ingeedients.—1 pint of mushroom-buttons, 1 pint of brown gravy ITo. 436, i teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, cayenne and salt to taste. 3fode.-~Meike a pint of brown gravy by recipe 436 ; cut nearly all the stalks away from the mushrooms and peel the tops; put them into a stewpan, with the gravy, and simmer them gently from 20 minutes to i hour. Add the nutmeg and a seasoning of cayenne and salt, and serve very hot. Thiie.—20 minutes to i hour. Average costy del. to 2s. per pint. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seaso7iahle.—Kedidiow mushrooms in September and October. Analysis of Fungi.—The fungi have been examined chemically with much caro, both by MM. Bracannot and Vauquelin, who designate the insoluble spongy matter by the name of fungiu, and the soluble portion is found to contain the bolotic and the fuugic acids, BAKED SPANISH ONIONS. 1129. Ingredients.—4 or 5 Spanish onions, salt, and water. Mode.—Put the onions, with their skins on, into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and let them boil quickly for an hour. Then take them out, wipe them thoroughly, wrap each On: in a piece of paper separately, and bake them in a moderate oven for 2 hours, or longer, should the onions be very large. They may be served in their skins, and eatefl with a piece of cold butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt; or they may be peeled, and a good brown gravy poured over them. 2 P