282 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. oysters or mushrooms. The above recipe was contributed to this work by a Sussex lady, in which county the inhabitants are noted for their savoury puddings. It differs from the general way of making them, as the meat is cut up into very small pieces and the basin is differently shaped : on trial, this pudding will be found far nicer, and more full of gravy, than when laid in large pieces in the dish. Bad Meat.—In the flesh of animals slaughtered whilst suffering acute inflammation or fever, the hollow fibres, or capillaries, as they are called, which form the substance of the Iyer, are filled with congested and unassimilated animal fluid, which, from its impurity, gives the Iyer a dark colour, and produces a tendency to rapid putrefaction. In a more advanced stage of such disease, serous, and sometimes purulent matter, is formed in the cellular tissues between the muscles of the flesh; and when such is the case, nothing can be more poisonous than such abominable carrion. In the flesh of animals killed whilst under the influence of any disease of an emaciating effect, the Iyer adheres but slightly to the bones, with its fibres contracted and dry; and the little fat that there may be is friable, and shrunk within its integuments. The flesh of animals slaughtered whilst under considerable depression of vital energy (as from previous bleeding) has a a diminished tendency to stifi'en after death, the feebleness of this tendency being in proportion to the degree of depression. It presents, also, an unnatural blue or pallid appearance, has a faint and slightly sour smell, and soon becomes putrid. When an animal has died otherwise than by slaughtering, its flesh is flaccid and clammy, emits a peculiar faint and disagreeable smell, and, it need scarcely be added, spontaneous 'decomposition proceeds very rapidly. BEEP-STEAKS WITH PBIED POTATOES, or BIPTEK AUX POMMES-DE-TEUBE (a la mode Prancaise). 606. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of steak, 8 potatoes, i lb. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of minced herbs. Mode—Vut the butter into a frying or saiite pan, set it over the fire, and let it get very hot; peel, and cut the potatoes into long thin slices ; put them into the hot butter, and fry them till of a nice brown colour. ISfow broil the steaks over a bright clear fire, turning them frequently, that every part may be equally done: as they should not be thick, 5 minutes will broil them. Put the herbs and seasoning in the butter the potatoes were fried in, pour it under the steak, and place the fried potatoes round, as a garnish. To have this dish in perfection, a portion of the fillet of the sirloin should be used, as the meat is generally so much more tender than that of the rump, and the steaks should be cut about g of an inch in thickness. Time»—5 minutes to broil the steaks, and about the same time to fry the potatoes. Average cost^ Is, per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable all the year ; but not so good in warm weather, as the meat cannot hang to get tender. BOILED AITCH-BONE OP BEEP. 607. Ingeedients.—Beef, water. Mode.—Aiter this joint has been in salt 5 or 6 days, it will be