THE CLOVE, inch in length, situate below. MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 182 Time.—Altogether, f hour. Average cost^ 5d. per pint. J/w?^.—Altogether, 2 hours. Average cost, Is. per pint. The Clove.—The clove-tree is a native of the Molucca Islands, particularly Amboyna, and attains the height of a laurel-tree, and no verdure is ever seen under it. From the extremities of the branches quantities of flowers grow, first white; then they become green, and next red and hard, when they have arrived at their clove state. "When they become dry, they assume a yellowish hue, which sub- sequently changes into a dark brown. As an aromatic, the clove is highly stimulating, and yields an abundance of oil. There are several varieties of the clove; the best is called the royal clove, which is scarce, and which is blacker and smaller than the other kinds. It is a curious fact, that the flowers, when fuUy developed, are quite in©dorous, and that the real fruit is not in the least aromatic. The form is that of a nail, having a globular head, formed of the four petals of the corolla, and four leaves of the calyx not expanded, with a nearly cylindrical germen, scarcely an BECHAMEL MAIGHE, or WITHOUT MEAT. 368. Ii^GEEDiENTS.—2 onions, 1 blade of mace, mushroom trim- mings, a small bunch of parslej^ 1 oz. of butter, flour, i pint of water, 1 pint of milk, salt, the juice of i lemon, 2 egg;s. 3fode.—'Pxd in a stewpan the milk, and J pint of water, with the onions, mace, mushrooms, parsley, and salt. Let these simmer gently for 20 minutes. In the mean time, rub on a plate 1 oz. of flour and butter; put it to the liquor, and stir it v/ell till it boils up; then place it by the side of the fire, and continue stirring until it is perfectly smooth. Now strain it through a sieve into a basin, after which put it back in the stev/pan, and add the lemon-juice. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with about 4 dessertspoonfuls of milk; strain this to the sauce, keep stirring it over the fire, but do not let it boil, lest it curdle. This is a good sauce to pour over boiled fowls wlien they are a bad colour. PICKLED BEETROOT. 369. Ikgeedients.—Sufficient vinegar to cover the beets, 2 oz. of whole pepper, 2 oz. of allspice to each gallon of vinegar. 3fode,—Wash the beets free from dirt, aiid be very careful not to prick the outside skin, or they would lose their beautiful colour. Put them into boiling water, let them simmer gently, and when about three parts done, which will be in H hour, take them out and let them cool. Boil the vinegar with pepper and allspice, in the above proportion, for ten minutes, and when cold, pour it on the beets, which must be peeled and cut into slices about J inch thick.