GAME. 525 ratlier underdone, and cover tliem with paper, as tliey should not he browned; cut them into joints, take off the skin from the wings, legs, and breasts; put these into a stcwpan, cover them up, and set by until the gravy is ready. Cut a slice of ham into small pieces, and put them, with the carrots sliced, the shalots, mushrooms, herbs, cloves, and pepper, into a stewpan; fry them lightly in a little butter, pour in the stock, add the bones and trimming from the partridges, and simmer for i hour. Strain the gravy, let it cool, and skim off every particle of fat; put it to the legs, wings, and breasts, add a glass of sherry or Madeira and a small lump of sugar, let all gradually warm through by the side of the fire, and when on the point of boiling, serve, and garnish the dish with croutons. The remains of roast partridge answer very well dressed in this wa}'', although not so good as when the birds are in the first instance only half-roasted. This recipe is equally suitable for pheasants, moor- game, &c.; but care must be taken always to skin the joints. Time.—Altogether 1 hour. SifdJicient.—2 or 3 partridges for an entree. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. BOAST PARTBIDGE. 1039. Ikgeedieis'TS.—Partridge ; butter. Choosing and Trussing,—Choose young birds, with dark-coloured bills and yellowish legs, and let them hang a few days, or there will be no fiavour to the fiesh, nor will it be tender. The time they should be kept, entirely depends on the taste of those for v/hom they are intended, as what some persons would consider delicious, would be to others disgusting and offensive. They may be trussed with or without the head, the latter mode being noYi^ considered the most fashionable. Pluck, draw, and wipe the partridge care- fully inside and out; cut ofi^ the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back ; bring the legs close to the breast, between it and the side-bones, and pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. Y»^hen the head is left on, it should be brought round and fixed on to the point of the skewer. Mode.—When the bird is firmly and plumply trussed, roast it before a nice bright fire; keep it well basted, and a few minutes before serving, fiour and froth it well. Dish it, and serve with gravy and bread sauce, and send to table hot and quickly. A little of the gravy should be poured over the bird.—See coloured plate, D1.