PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. 759 1507. The last-mentioned, but not the least-important preparation of fruit, is the compote, a confiture made at the moment of need, and with much less sugar than would be ordinarily put to preserves. They are most wholesome things, suitable to most stomachs which cannot accommodate themselves to raw fruit or a large portion of sugar : they are the happy medium, and far better than ordinary stewed fruit. COITFECTIONARY. 1508. In speaking of confectionary, it should be remarked that all the vai'ious preparations above named come, strictly speaking, under that head; for the various fruits, flowers, herbs, roots, and juices, which, when boiled with sugar, were formerly employed in pharmacy as well as for sweetmeats, were called confections, from the Latin word conficere, 'to make up but the term confectionary embraces a very large class indeed of sweet food, many kinds of which should not be attempted in the ordinary cuisine. The thousand and one ornamental dishes that adorn the tables of the wealthy should bo purchased from the confectioner : they cannot profitably be made at home Apart from these, cakes, biscuits, and tarts, &c., the class of sweetmeats called confections m.ay be thus classified:—1. Liquid coiifects, or fruits either whole or in pieces, preserved by being immersed in a fluid transparent syrup ; as the liquid confects of apricots, green citrons, and many foreign fruits. 2. Dry confects are those which, after having been bciled in the syrup, are taken out and put to. dry in an oven, as citron and orange-peel, &c. 3. Mar- malade, jams, and pastes, a kind of soft compounds made of the pulp of fruits or other vegetable substances, beat up with sugar or honey; such as oranges, apricots, pears, &c. 4. Jellies are the juices of fruits boiled with sugar to a pretty thick consistency, so as, upon cooling, to form a trembling jelly; as currant, gooseberry, apple jelly, &c. 5. Conservc-5 are a kind of dry confects, made by beating up flowers, fruits, &c., with sugar, not dissolved. 6. Candies are fruits candied over with sugar after having been boiled in the syrup. DESSERT DISHES. 1509. With moderns the dessert is not so profuse, nor does it hold the same relationship to the dinner that it held with the ancients,—the Romans more especially. On ivory tables they would spread hundreds of different kinds of raw, cooked, and preserved fruits, tarts and cakes, as substitutes for the more substantial comestibles with which the guests were satiated. However, as late as the reigns of oui' two last Georges, fabulous sums were often expended upon fanciful desserts. The dessert certainly repays, in its general effect, the expenditure upon it of much pains ; and it may be said, that if there bo any poetry at all in meals, or the process of feeding, there is poetry in the