PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 655 TVme.—f hour to simmer the macaroni; f hour to bake the pudding. Average cosff lid. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Macaeoni is composed of wheaten flour, flavoured with other articles, and worked up with water into a paste, to which, by a peculiar process, a tubular or pipe form is given, in order that it may cook more readily in hot water. That of smaller diameter than macaroni (which is about the thickness of a goose-quill) is called vermicelli; and when smaller ^ii)!, fideliyii. The finest is made from the flour of the hard-grained Black-Sea wheat. Macaroni is the principal article of food in many parts of Italy, particularly Naples, where the best is manufactured, and from whence, also, it is exported in considerable quantities. In this country, macaroni and vermicelli are frequently used in soups. MANITA KROUP PUDDING. 1302. Ingeedients.—3 tablespoonfuls of manna kroup, 12 bitter almonds, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, 3 eggs. Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar; mix them with the manna kroup; pour over these a pint of boiling milk, and let them steep for about J hour. "When nearly cold, add sugar and the well-beaten eggs; mix all well together; put the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake for | hour. Time.—i hour. Average costy Suffi^cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. Manna Kroup, Semora, or Semolina, are three names given to a flour made from ground wheat and rice. The preparation is white -^hen it is made only of these mate- rials ; the yellow colour which it usually has, is produced by a portion of saffron and yolks of eggs. Next to vermicelli, this preparation is the most useful for thickening either meat or vegetable soups. As a food, it is light, nutritious, wholesome, and easily digested. The best preparation is brought from Arabia, and, next to that, from Italy. MANSFIELD PUDDINa. •1303. In"geedieitts.—The crumb of 2 rolls, 1 pint of milk, sugar to taste, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 6 oz. of chopped suet, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, i lb. of currants, ^ teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Mode.—Slice the roll very thin, and pour upon it a pint of boiling milk ; let it remain covered close for i hour, then beat it up with a fork, and sweeten with moist sugar; stir in the chopped suet, flour, currants, and nutmeg. Mix these ingredients well together, moisten with the eggs, brandy, and cream; beat the mixture for 2 or 3 minutes, put it into a buttered dish or mould, and bake in a moderate oven for 1^ hour. Turn it out, strew sifted sugar over, and serve. T{7ne.~l~ hour. Average cost, Is. '6d. \ Sufficietit for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time.