110 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, decay of those thatlive and more and have their being" on the land, their bodies continue to grow with each succcediDg supply of food^ and the conduits of life to perform their functions unimpaired. The age of fishes has not been properly ascertained, although it is believed that the most minute of the species has a longer lease of life than man. The mode in which they die has been noted by the Rev. Mr. White, the eminent naturalist of Selbourne. As soon as the fish sickens, the head sinks lower and lower, till the animal, as it were, stands upon it. After this, as it becomes weaker, it loses its poise, till the tail turns over, when it comes to the surface, and floats with its belly upwards. The reason for its floating in this manner is on account of the body being no longer balanced by the fins of the belly, and the broad muscular back preponderating, by its own gravity, over the belly, from this latter being a cavity, and consequently hghter. 210. Fishes are either Solitary or Gregarious, and some of them migrate to great distances, and into certain rivers, to deposit their spawn. Of sea-fishes, the cod, herring, mackerel, and many others, assemble in immense shoals, and migrate through different tracts of the ocean ; but, whether con- sidered in their solitary or gregarious capacity, they are alike wonderful to all who look through Nature up to Nature's God, and consider, with due humilitj'-, yet exalted admiration, the sublime variety, beauty, power, and grandeur of His productions, as manifested in the Creation. PISH AS AjST ABTICIiS OF HUMAN FOOD. 211. As the Nutritive Properties of Fish are deemed inferior to those of what is called butchers' meat, it would appear, from all we can learn, that, in all ages, it has held only a secondary place in the estimation of those who have considered the science of gastronomy as a large element in the happiness of mankind. Among the Jews of old it was very little used, although it seems not to have been entirely interdicted, as Moses prohibited only the use of such as had neither scales nor fins. The Egyptians, however, made fish an article of diet, notwithstanding that it was rejected by their priests. Egypt, however, is not a country favourable to the production of fish, although we read of the people, when hungry, eating it raw ; of epicures among them having dried it in the sun ; and of its being salted and preserved, to serve as a repast on days of great solemnity. The modern Egyptians are, in general, extremely temperate in regard to food, lilven the richest among them take little pride, and, perhaps, experience as little delight, in the luxuries of the table. Their dishes mostly consist of pilaus, soups, and stews, prepared principally of onions, cucumbers, and other cold vegetables, mixed with a little meat cut into small pieces. On special occasions, however, a whole sheep is placed on the festive board; but during several of the hottest months of the year, the richest restrict thems>:;lves entirely to a vegetable diet. The poor are contented with a little oil or sour milk, in which they may dip their bread. ^13. Passing from Africa to Europe, we come amongst a people who