PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. C81 Time—'I to 1 Lour for the rice to swell; to be baked 1 hour in a slov/ oven. Average costy Is. Sd, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. BAKED OR BOILED GBOUND BICE PUDDING. 1353. Ingredients.—2 pints of milk, 6 tablespoonfuls of ground rice, sugar to taste, 4 eggs, flavouring of lemon-rind, nutmeg, bitter almonds or bay-leaf. 3Iocle.—Put 1J pint of the milk into a stewpan, with any of tlie above flavourings, and bring it to the boiling-point, and, with the other \ pint of milk, mix the ground rice to a smooth batter; strain the boiling milk to this, and stir over the fire until the mixture is tolerably thick; then pour it into a basin, leave it uncovered, and when nearly or quite cold, sweeten it to taste, and add the eggs, which should be previously well beaten, with a little salt. Put the pudding into a well-buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and boil for 1| hour. For a baked pudding, proceed in precisely the same manner, only using half the above proportion of ground rice, with the same quantity of all the other ingredients : an hour will bake the pudding in a moderate oven. Stewed fruit, or preserves, or marmalade, maybe served with either the boiled or baked pudding, and will be found an improvement. Time,—li hour to boil, 1 hour to bake. Average cost, 10c?. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. ICED BICE PUDDING-. 1354. Ingredients.-—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, ilb. of sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, 1 small teaspoonful of essence of vanilla. Mode.—FvLt the rice into a stewpan, with the milk and sugar, and let these simmer over a gentle fire until the rice is sufficiently soft to break up into a smooth mass, and should the milk dry away too much, a little more may be added. Stir the rice occasionally, to prevent its burning, then beat it to a smooth mixture; add the yolks of the eggs, which should be vv^ell whisked, and the vanilla (should this flavouring not be liked, essence of bitter almonds may be substituted for it); put this rice custard into the freezing-pot, and proceed as directed in recipe No. 1290. When wanted for table, turn the pudding out of the mould, and pour over the top, and round it, a compote of oranges, or any other fruit that may be preferred, taking care that the flavouring in the pudding harmonizes well with the fruit that is served with it.