PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 657 of marrow, 4 eggs, ^ lb. of raisins or currants, or 2 oz. of each; sugar and grated nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Make the milk boiling, pour it hot on to the bread crumbs, and let these remain covered for about J hour; shred the marrow, beat up the eggs, and mix these with the bread crumbs; add the remaining ingredients, beat the mixture well, and either put it into a buttered mould and boil it for 21- hours, or put it into a pie-dish edged with puff-paste, and ,bake for rather more than % hour. Before sending it to table, sift a little pounded sugar over, after being turned out of the mould or basin. Time.—2-2- hours to boil, ^ hour to bake. Average cost, Is. 2d, Svfflcicnt for o or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MILITARY PUDDINGS. 1303. Ingeedients.—I lb. of suet, i lb. of bread crumbs. Jib. of moist sugar, the rind and juice of 1 large lemon. Mode.—Chop the suet finely, mix it with the bread crumbs and sugar, and mince the lemon-rind and strain the juice ; stir these into the other ingredients, mix well, and put the mixture into small buttered cups, and bake for rather more than ^} hour; turn them out on the dish, and serve with lemon-sauce. The above ingredients may be made into small balls, and boiled for about J hour; they should then be served with the same sauce as when baked. Ti7ne.—]X2it\\ev more than ^ hour. Average cost, 9d. Sufficient to fill 6 or 7 moderate-sized cups. Seasonable at anytime. MINCEMEAT. 1309. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of raisins, 3 lbs. of currants, Ih, lb. of lean beef, 3 lbs. of beef suet, 2 lbs. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of citron, 2 oz. of candied lemon-peel, 2 oz. of candied orange-peel, 1 small nutmeg, 1 pottle of apples, the rind of 2 lemons, the juice of 1, t piut of brandy. J/o<:?6\—Stone and cut the raisins once or twice across, but do not chop them; wash, dry, and pick the currants free from stalks and grit, and mince the beef and suet, taking care that the latter is chopped very fine; slice the citron and candied peel, grate the nut- meg, and pare, core, and mince the apples; mince the lemon-peel, strain the juice, and when all the ingredients are thus prepared, mix them well together, adding the brandy when the other things arc well blended ; press the whole into a jar, carefully exclude the air, and the mincemeat will be ready for use in a fortnight. Average cost for this quantity, 8c7. Seasonable.—IsldikQ this about the beginning of December. 2u