SAUCES; ETC. 255 •WALNUT KETCHUP. I. 535. Ingredients.—100 walnuts, l handful of salt, 1 quart of vinegar, i oz. of mace, i oz. of nutmeg, i oz. of cloves, i oz. of ginger, i oz. of whole black pepper, a small piece of horseradish, 20 shalots, I lb. of anchovies, 1 pint of port wine. If ode.—'Proeme the walnuts at the time you can run a pin through them, slightly bruise, and put them into a jar with the salt and vinegar, let them stand 8 days, stirring every day ; then drain the liquor from them, and boil it, with the above ingredients, for about i hour. It may be strained or not, as preferred, and, if required, a little more vinegar or wine can be added, according to taste. When bottled well, seal tha corks. Time —I hour. Seasonable.—yL^^Q this from the beginning to the middle of July, when walnuts are in perfection for pickling purposes. IT. 536. Ingeedients.—i sieve of walnut-shells, 2 quarts of water, salt, i lb. of shalots, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of mace, 1 oz. of whole pepper, 1 oz. of garlic. Mode.—Put the walnut-shells into a pan, with the water, and a large quantity of salt; let them stand for 10 days, then break the shells up in the water, and let it drain through a sieve, putting a heavy weight on the top to express the juice ; place it on the fire, and remove all scum that may arise. Now boil the liquor with the shalots, cloves, mace, pepper, and garlic, and let all simmer till the shalots sink; then put the liquor into a pan, and, when cold, bottle, and cork closely. It should stand 6 months before using: should it ferment during that time, it must be again boiled and skimmed. Time.—About | hour. Seasonable in September, when the wahiut- shells are obtainable. The Walnut.—This nut is a native of Persia, and wa3 introduced into England from France. As a pickle, it is much used in the green state; and grated walnuts iu Spain are much employed, both in tarts and other dishes. On the continent it is occasionally employed as a substitute for olive oil in cooking ; but it is apt, under such circumstances, to become rancid. The matter which remains after the oil is extracted is considered highly nutritious for poultry. It is called marey and in Switzerland is eaten under the name of pain amer by the poor. The oil is frequently manufactured into a kind of soap, and the leaves and green husks yield an extract, which, as a brown dj'3, is used to stain hair, wool, and wood.