rBESERYES, CONrECTIONARY, ETC. 779 tkem boil from 2 to J hour ; then turn the whole into an earthen pan, and let it remain for 2 days. Boil the jam up again until it looks clear; put it into pots, and when cold, cover with oiled popper, and over the jars put tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg-, and store away in a dry place. Care must be taken, in making this, to keep the jam well stirred and well skimmed, to prevent it burning at the bottom of the pan, and to have it very clear. Time.—5 minutes to bail the currant-juice and sugar after the latter is dissolved ; from ^ to | hour to simmer the gooseberries the first time> J hour the second time of boiliug. Average cost, from Qd. to 106?. per lb. pot. Sufficient,-—Allow l-h pint of fruit for a lb. pot. Seasoncible.—Make this in June or July. V^THITE CB GPvESI^ GOOSEEEKIIY JAM. 1549. Ingredients.—Equal weight of fruit and sugar. Mode,—Select the gooseberries not very ripe, either white or greenj and top and tail them. Boil the sugar with water (allowing |- pint to every lb.) for about i:hour, carefully removing the scum as it rises j then put in the gooseberries, and simmer gently till clear and firm : try a little of the jam on a plate; if it jellies when cold, it is done, and should then be poured into pots. When cold, cover with oiled paper, and tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the unbeaten white of an egg, and store away in a dry place. Time,—\ hour to boil the sugar and water,, | hour the jam. Average cost, from Qd. to 8c/. per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow 1^ pint of fruit for a lb. pot. Seasonahle.—Make this in June. GOOSEBBEBY JELLY. 1550. Ingkehients.—Grooseberries ; to every pint of juice allow fib. of loaf sugar. Mode.—Put the gooseberries, after cutting off the tops and tails, into a preserving-pan, and stir them over the fire until they are quite soft then strain them through a sieve, and to every pint of juice allow fib. of sugar. Boil the juice and sugar together for nearly % hour, stirring and skimming ail the time ; and if the jellj^ appears firm Vvdien a little of it is poured on to a plate, it is done, and should then be taken up and put into small pots. Cover the pots with oiled and egged papers, the same as for currant jelly l^o. 1533, and store away in a dry place.