MODERN HODSEHOLD COOKERY. 674: veal, and then one of ham, and then another layer of forcemeat, and roll the fowl over, making the skin meet at the back. Line the pie with forcemeat, put in the fowl, and fill up the cavities with slices of seasoned veal and ham and forcemeat; wet the edges of the pie, put on the cover, pinch the edges together with the paste-pincers, and decorate it with leaves; brush it over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. In the mean time, make a good strong gravy from the bones, pour it through a fun- nel into the hole at the top ; cover this hole with a small leaf, and the pie, EAisED PIE. when cold, will be ready for use. Let it be remembered that the gravy must be considerably reduced before it is poured into the pie, as, when cold, it should form a firm jelly, and not be the least degree in a liquid state. This recipe is suitable for all kinds of poultry or game, using one or more birds, according to the size of the pie intended to be made; but the birds must always be boned. Truf3.es, mushrooms, &c., added to this pie, make it much nicer; and, to enrich it, lard the fleshy parts of the poultry or game with thin strips of bacon. This method of forming raised pies in a mould is generally called a timhaley and has the advantage of being more easily made than one where the paste is raised by the hands; the crust, besides, being eatable. {See coloured plate N 1.) Time.—Large pie, 4 hours. Average cost, 6s. 6d, Seasonable, with poultry, all the year; with game, from September to March. BAISED PIE OF VEAL AHD HAM. 1341. Ingredients.—3 or 4 lbs. of veal cutlets, a few slices of bacon or ham, seasoning of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and allspice, forcemeat ^0.415,2 lbs. of hot-water paste No. 1217, i pint of good strong gravy. Mode.—To raise the crust for a pie with the hands is a very dif- ficult task, and can only be accomplished by skilled and experienced cooks. The process should be seen to be satisfactorily learnt, and plenty of practice given to the making of raised pies, as by that means only will success be insured. Make a hot-water paste by | recipe No. 1217, and from the mass raise the pie with the hands; if | this cannot be accomplished, cut out pieces for the top and bottom, ; and a long piece for the sides; fasten the bottom and side-piece together by means of egg, and pinch the edges well together; then ! line the pie with forcemeat made by recipe No. 415, put in a layer of |