MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 94 take off all the fat, reduce the liquor in a shallow pan, by setting it over a sharp lire, hut he particular that it does not burn ; boil it fast and uncovered for 8 hours, and keep it stirred. Put it into a deep dish, and set it by for a day. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, place the dish in it, and keep it boiling ; stir occasionally, and when the soup is thick and ropy, it is done. Form it into little cakes by pouring a small quantity on to the bottom of cups or basins; when cold, turn them out on a flannel to dry. Keep them from the air in tin canisters. Average cost of this quantity, 165. Note.—Soup can be made in 5 minutes with this, by dissolving a small piece, about the size of a walnut, in a pint of warm water, and simmering for 2 minutes. Vermicelli, macaroni, or other Italian pastes, may be added. The Laueel, oe Bat.—The leaves of this tree frequently enter into the recipes of cookery; but they ought not to be used without the greatest caution, and not at all, iinless the cook is perfectly aware of their effects. It ought to be known, that there are two kinds of bay-trees,—the Classic laurel, whose leaves are comparatively harmless, and the Cherry-laurel, which is the one whose leaves are employed in cookery. They have a kernel-hke flavour, and are used in blanc-mange, puddings, custards, &c.; but, when acted upon by water, they develop prussic acid, and, therefore, but a small number of the leaves should be used at a time. KABEIT SOUP. i8i. Ingeedients.—2 large rabbits, or 3 small ones; a faggot of savoury herbs, f head of celery, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 1 blade of mace, salt and white pepper to taste, a little pounded mace, | pint of cream, the yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard, the crumb of a French roll, nearly 3 quarts of water. ilibi?6^.—Make the soup with the legs and shoulders of the rabbit, and keep the nice pieces for a dish or entree. Put them into warm v/ater, and draw the blood ; when quite clean, put them in a stewpan, vv ith a faggot of herbs, and a teacupful, or rather more, of veal stock or water. Simmer slowly till done through, and add the 3 quarts of water, and boil for an hour. Take out the rabbit, pick the meat from the bones, covering it up to keep it white; put the bones back in the liquor, add the vegetables, and simmer for 2 hours; skim and strain, and let it cool. Now pound the meat in a mortar, with the yolks of the eggs, and the crumb of the roll previously soaked ; rub it through a tammy, and gradually add it to the strained liquor, and sim- mer for 15 minutes. Mix arrowroot or rice-flour with the cream (say 2 dessert-spoonfuls), and stir in the soup ; bring it to a boil, and serve. This soup must be very white, and instead of thickening it with arrowroot or rice-flour, vermicelli or pearl barley can be boiled ia a little stock, and put in 5 minutes before serving.