323 THE siJEr^r. down the front of each log, as low as tlie sJiank. Tho norns, unlike the character of the order generally, have a quadrangular base, and, sweeping inwards, terminate in a sharp point. The tail, about seven inches long, ends in a tuft of stiff hairs. From this remarkable muffler-looking beai*d, the French have given the species the name of Moufion cl manchcites. From the primitive stock eleven varieties have been reared in this country, of the domesticated sheep, each supposed by their advocates to possess some one or more special qualities. These eleven, embracing the Shetland or Orkney ; the Dun-woolled ; Black-faced, cr heath-bred ; the Moorland, of Devonshire; the Cheviot; the Horned, of Norft)lk ; the Ryeland; South-Down; the Merino; the Old Leicester, and the Teeswater, or New Leicester, have of late years been epitomized ; and, or all useful and practical purposes, reduced to the following four orders :— 686. The South-Down, the Leicester, the Black-faced, and tho Cheviot. 687. South-Downs.—It appears, as far as our investigation can trac^the fact, that from the very earliest epoch of agricultural history in England, the breezy range of light chalky hills running through the south-west and SOVTJI-DOVfl\ EAM. south of Sussex and Hampshire, and known as the South-Downs, has been famous for a superior race of sheep ; and we find the Romans early estab- lished mills and a cloth-factory at Winchester, where they may be said to terminate, which rose to such estimation, from the fineness of the wool and texture of the cloth, that the produce was kept as only worthy to clothe emperors. From this, it may be inferred that sheep have alv/ays been indi- genous to this hilly tract. Though boasting so remote a reputation, it is comparatively v/ithin late years that the improvement and present state of perfection of this breed has been effected, the South-Down now ranking, for symmetry of shape, constitution, and early maturity, v/ith any stock in the kingdom. The South-Down has no horns, is covered with a fine wool from y2