MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 700 apples, in the insides of which, and between each, place some of the marmalade; then place another layer of apples, and fill up the cavities with marmalade as before, forming the whole into a raised oval shape. "Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, mix with them the pounded sugar, and cover the apples very smoothly all over with the icing; blanch and cut each almond into 4 or 5 strips; place these strips at equal distances over the icing sticking up; strew over a little rough pounded sugar, and place the dish in a very slow oven, to colour the almonds, and for the apples to get warm through. This entremets may also be served cold, and makes a pretty supper-dish. Time.—From 20 to 30 minutes to stew the apples. Average cost, \s, 9d to 25. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. THICK APPLE JELIiT OB MARMALADE, for Entremets or Dessert Dishes. 1395. IjSTGEEDIENTS.—Apples; to every lb. of pulp allow | lb. of sugar, i teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel. Mode.—Peel, core, and boil the apples with only sufficient water to prevent them from burning; beat them to a pulp, and to every lb. of about 20 minutes, or until the apples cease to stick to the bottom of the pan. The jelly is then done, and may be poured into moulds which have been previously dipped in water, when it will turn out nicely for dessert or a side-dish ; for the latter a little custard should be poured round, and it should be garnished with strips of citron or stuck with blanched almonds. Time.—Fiom \ to f hour to reduce the apples to a pulp ; 20 minutes to boil after the sugar is added. Sufficient.—1^ lb. of apples sufficient for a small mould. Seasonable from July to March; but is best in September, October or November. 1396. Ingredients.—2 dozen apples, 1^ pint of spring-water; to every pint of juice allow i lb. of loaf sugar, | oz. of isinglass, the rind of i lemon. APPLE JELLY STUCK WITH ALMONDS. pulp allow the above proportion of sugar in lumps. Dip the lumps into water; put these into a saucepan, and boil till the syrup is thick and can be well skimmed; then add this syrup to the apple pulp, with the minced lemon-peel, and stir it over a quick fire for CLEAR APPLE JELLY.