982 HOUSEHOLD MA!<rAGEMEIsT. make the stock bottle^ and when any is required for use, it is merely necessary to dihite it with a little cold water until the desired consistency is obtained, and to keep it in a small bottle, well corked, for use. This bandoline, instead of injuring the hair, as many other kinds often do, improves it, by increasing its growth, and making it always smooth and glossy. An excellent Pomatum. ■2256. Ingredients.—1^ lb. of lard, I pint of olive-oil, g pint of caste r-oil, 4 oz. of spermaceti, bergamot, or any other scent; elder-flov/er water. Mode.—¥/ash the lard well in the elder-flower water ; drain, and beat it to a cream. Mix the two oils together, and heat them sufficiently to dissolve the spermaceti, which should be beaten fine in a mortar. Mix all these ingredients together with the brandy and whatever kind of scent may be preferred ; and whilst warm pour into glass bottles for use, keeping them well corked. The best way to liquefy the pomatum is to set the bottle in a saucepan of warm water. It v/ill remain good for many months. To promote tlie Growth, of Hair. 2257. Inghei^ients.—Equal quantities of olive-oil and spirit of rosemary; a few drops of oil of nutmeg. Mode.—Mix the ingredients together, rub the roots of the hair every night with a little of this liniment, and the growth of it will very soon sensibly increase. 2258. Our farther remarks on dressing must be confined to some general advice. In putting on a band, see that it is laid quite flat, and is drawn tightly round the waist before it is pinned in front; that the pin is a strong one, and that it is secured to the stays, so as not to slip up or down, or crease in the folds. Arrange the folds of the dress over the crinoline petticoats; if the dress fastens behind, put a small pin in the slit to prevent it from opening. See that the sleeves fall well over the arms. If it is finished with a jacket, or other upper dress, see that it fits smoothly under the arms; pull out the flounces, and spread out the petticoat at the bottom with the hands, so that it falls in graceful folds. In arranging the petticoat itself, a careful lady's-maid will see that this is firmly fastened round the waist. 2259. Where sashes are worn, pin the hows securely on the inside with a pin, so as not to be visible; then raise the bow v/ith the fingers. The collar is arranged and carefully adjusted with brooch or bow in the centre. 2260. Having dressed her mistress for brea,kfast, and breakfasted herself, the further duties of the lady's-maid will depend altogether upon the habits of the family, in which hardly two will probably agree. Where the duties are entirely connned to attendance on her mistress, it is probable that the bed- room and dressing-room will be committed to her care; that, the housemaid will rarely enter, except for the weekly or other peiiodlcal cleaning ; she will, therefore, have to make her mistress's bed, and keep it in order ; and as her duties are light and easy, there can be no allowance made for the slightest approach to uncleanliness or want of order. Every morning, immediately after her mistress has left it, and while breakfast is on, she should throw the bed open, by taking off the clothes ; open the windows (except in rainy weather), and leave the room to air for half an hour. After breakfast, except her attendance