103(5 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT, range of the];)liysician^s art; and, in cases of deficient quantity, is the most certain, speedy, and the healthiest means that can be employed to insure a quick and abundant flow. In cases where malt liquor produces flatulency, a few grains of the "carbonate of soda" may advantageously be added to each glass immediately before drinking, which will have the efl'ect of neutralizing any acidity that may be in the porter at the time, and will also prevent its after-disagreement with the stomach. The quantity to be taken must depend upon the natural strength of the mother, the age and demand made by tlio infant on the parent, and other causes ; but the amount should vary from one to two pints a day, never taking less than half a pint at a time, which should be repeated three or four times a day. 2477. "We have said that the period of suckling is a season of penance to the mother, bub this is not invariably the case ; and, as so much must depend upon the natural strength of the stomach, and its power of assimilating all kinds of food into healthy chyle, it is impossible to define exceptions. Where a woman feels she can cat any kind of food, without inconvenience or detri- ment, she should live during her suckling as she did before ; but, as a general rule, wo are bound to advise all mothers to abstain from such articles as pickles, fruits, cucumbers, and all acid and slowly digestible foods, unless they wish for restless nights and crying infants. 2478. As regards exercise and amusement, we would certainly neither prohibit a mother's dancing, going* to a theatre, nor even from attending an assembly. The first, however, is the best indoor recreation she can take,, and a young mother will do well to often amuse herself in the nursery with this most excellent means of healthful circulation. The only precaution necessary is to avoid letting the child suck the milk that has lain long in the breast, or is heated by excessive action. 2479. Every mother who can, should be i^rovided with a breast-pump, or glass tube, to draw off the superabundance that has been accumulating in her absence from the child, or the first gush excited by undue exertion: the subsequent supplj'- of milk will be secreted under the invigorating influence oi a iDrevious healthy stimulus. 2480. As the first milk that is secreted contains a large amount of the saline elements, and is thin and innutritions, it is most admirably adapted for the purpose Nature designed it to fulfil,—that of an aperient; but which, un- fortunately, it is seldom permitted, in our artificial mode of Hving, to perlbrm. 2481. So opposed are we to the objectionable plan of physicking new-born children, that, unless for positive illness, we would much rather advise that medicine should be administered through the mother for the first eight or ten weeks of its existence. This practice, which few mothers will object to, is