MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 484 The Trumpetek Pigeoit.—From tlie circumstance of this "bird imitatincj the sound of a trumpet, instead of cooing, like other pif<eons,it has receivedits designation. It is of the middle size, having its legs and feet covered with feathera, and its plumage generally of a mottled black-and-white. It has a tuft springing from the root of its beak, and the larger this topknot is, the higher the estimation in which the breed is held. In their powers of trumpet- ing some are more expert than others; and whether this has any effect in influ- encing their own estimate of themselves, we cannot say 5 but they are rather select in the choice of their company. If two of them are put in a pigeon-house with other doves, it will be found that they conline their association almost entirely to each other. As much as two guineas have been pr.id for a well4rained docile bird of this kind. The Wood, or Wild Pigeon".—Bufibn enumerates upwards of thirty varieties of the pigeon, which he derives from one root,— viz. the stockdove, or common wild pigeon. All the varieties of colour and form which we witness, he attributes to human con- trivance and'fancy, Nevertheless, there exist essentially specific diffei'ences in these birds, which would appear to be attri- butable rather to the nature of the region, soO, and climate to which they are indige- nous, than to the art and ingenuity of man. The stockdove, in its wild state, is still found in some parts of Britain, forming its nest in the holes of rocks, old towers, and in the hollows of trees; it never, however, like the ringdove, nestles in the branches. Multitudes of wild pigeons still visit our shores in the winter, coming from their more northerly retreats, making their appearance about November, and retiring again in the spring. When forests of beechwood covered large tracts of the ground of this country, these birds used to haunt them in myriads, frequently covering a mile of ground in extent when they went out in the morning to feed. STEWED PIGEONS. 976. Ingeedients.—6 pigeons, a few slices of bacon, 3 oz. of butter, 2 table spoonfuls of minced parsley, sufficient stock No. 10-1 to cover the pigeons, thickening of butter and flour, 1 tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup, 1 tablespoonful of port wine. Mode.—Empty and clean the pigeons thoroughly, mince the livers, add to these the parsley and butter, and put it into the insides of the birds. Truss them with the legs inward, and put them into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon placed under and over them; add the stock, and stew gently for rather more than | hour. Dish the pigeons, strain the gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, add the ketchup and port wine, give one boil, pour over the pigeons, and serve. Time.—Rather more than ^ hour. Average cost^ 6d. to 9d. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from April to September TEUaiPETEB PiaEONS, WOOD-riGEON'.