MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 70 Time.—1^ hour. Average cost^ Is, Zd. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—In summer, green peas, asparagus-tops, French beans, &c. can be added. When the vegetables are very strong, instead of frying them in butter at first, they should be blanched, and afterwards simmered in the stock. SoRBEL.—This is one of the spinaceous plants, which take their name from spinach, which is the chief among them. It is little used in English cookery, but a great deal in French, in which it is employed for soups, sauces, and salads. In English meadows it is ■usually left to grow wild j but in France, where it is cultivated, its flavour is greatly improved. KALE BBOSE (a Scotch Recipe). 132. Ikgbedients.—Half an ox-head or cow-heel, a teacupful of toasted oatmeal, salt to taste, 2 handfuls of greens, 3 quarts of water. Mode,—Make a broth of the ox-head or cow-heel, and boil it till oil floats on the top of the liquor, then boil the greens, shred, in it. Put the oatmeal, with a little salt, into a basin, and mix with it quickly a teacupful of the fat broth: it should not run into one doughy mass, but form knots. Stir it into the whole, give one boil, and serve very hot. Time,—4 hours. Average costj 8d. per quart. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. Sufficient for 10 persons. IiEEK SOUP. I. 133. Ikgeedieitts.—-A sheep's head, 3 quarts of water, 12 leeks cut small, pepper and salt to taste, oatmeal to thicken. Ilode.—Prepare the head, either by skinning or cleaning the skin very nicely; split it in two ; take out the brains, and put it into boiling water; add the leeks and seasoning, and simmer very gently for 4 hours. Mix smoothly, with cold water, as much oatmeal as will make the soup tolerably thick; pour it into the soup; continue stirring till the whole is blended and well done, and serve. Time.—4i hours. Average cost, 4:d, per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 10 persons. II. COMMOHLY CALLED COCK-A-LEEKIE. 134. iNaREDiENTS.—A capon or large fowl (sometimes an old cock, from which the recipe takes its name, is used), which should be