GAME. 537 and to return to their home at pleasure. *' Here, during winter, they arc assisted with roots and hay, but in summer they have nolhinp; but the pasture of tlie park; so that, in point of expense, they cost no more than cattle of the best description." Travellers and sportsmen say that the male eland is unapproached in the quality of his flesh by any ruminant in South Africa ; that it grows to an enormous size, and lays on fat with as prcat facility as a true short-horn ; while in texture and flavour it is inflnitely superior. The lean is remarkably fine, the fat firm and delicate. It was tried in every fashion,— braised brisket, roasted ribs, broiled steaks, filet saute, boiled aitchbone, &c.,—and in all, gave evidence of the fact, that a new meat of surpassing value had been added to the products of the English park. When we hear such a gratifying account of the eland, it is pleasing to record that lord Hastings has a herd of the Canadian wapiti, a herd of Indian nylghaus, and another of the small Indian hog-deer; that the Earl of Ducie has been successful in breeding the magnificent Persian deer. The eland was first acclimated in England by the lato Earl of Derby, between the years 1835—1851, at his menagerie at Knowsley. On his death, in 1851, he bequeathed to the Zoological Society his breed of elands, consisting oi two males and three females. Here the animals have been treated with the greatest success, and from the year 1853 to the present time, the females have regularly repro- duced, without the loss of a single calf. ROAST WIDGEON. 1052. Ingredients.—Widgeons, a little flour, butter. Mode,—These are trussed in the same manner as wild duck, No. 1022, but must not be kept so long before they are dressed. Put them, down to a brisk fire ; flour, and baste them continually with butter^ and, when browned and nicely frothed, send them to table hot and quickly. Serve with brown gravy, or orange gravy, No. 483, and a cut lemon. Time.—I hour; if liked well done, 20 minutes. Average costy Is. each ; but seldom bought. Sufficient,—2 for a dish. Seasonable from October to February. ROAST WOODCOCK. 1053. InGKEDIENTS.-—Woodcocks ; butter, flour, toast. iffoi/e.—Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trails are, by epi- cures, considered a great delicacy. Pluck, and wipe them well out- side ; truss them with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs ; skin the neck and head, and bring the beak round under the wing. Place some slices of toast in the dripping- pan to catch the trails, allowing a piece of toast for each bird. Roast before a clear fire from 15 to 25 minutes; keep them well basted, and flour and froth them nicely. When done, dish the pieces of toast with the birds upon them, and pour round a very little gravy; send some more to table in a tureen. These are most delicious birds when well cooked, but they should not be kept too long: when the feathers drop, or easily come out, they are fit for table.—See coloured plate, I 1.