S41 MUTTO^r. verdant turf; but tlie layer of soil wMeh rests upon the chalk ia too thin to support trees and shrubs. The hills have rounded summits, and their smooth, undulated outlines are unbroken save by the sepulchral monuments of the early inhabitants of the country. The coombes and furrows, which ramify and extend into deep valleys, appear like dried-up channels of streams and rivulets. From time immemorial, immense flocks of sheep have been reared on these downs. The herbage of these hills is remarkably nutritious; and whilst the natural healthiness of the climate, consequent on the dryness of the air and the moderate elevation of the land, is eminently favourable to rearing a superior race of sheep, the arable land in the immediate neighbourhood of the Downs affords the means of a supply of other food, when the natural produce of the hills fails. The mutton of the South-Down breed of sheep is highly valued for its delicate flavour, and the wool for its fineness; bvit the best specimens of this breed, when imported from England into the West Indies, become miserably lean in the course of a year or two, and their woolly ileece gives place to a covering of short, crisp, brownish hair. BROILED KIDlsTBYS (a Breakfast or Supper Dish). 724. Ingkedients.—Sheep kidneys, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—Ascertain that the kidneys are fresh, and cut them open very evenly, lengthwise, down to the root, for should one half be thicker than the other, one would be underdone whilst the other would be dried, but do not separate them; skin them, and pass a skewer under the white part of each half to keep them flat, and broil over a nice clear fire, placing the inside downwards; turn them when done enough on one side, and cook them on the other. Eemove the skewers, place the kidneys on a very hot dish, season with pepper and salt, and put a tiny piece of butter in the middle of each; serve very hot and quickly, and send very hot plates to table. Ti7ne,—6 to 8 minutes. Average cost, ijc/. each. Sufficient.—Allow 1 for each person. Seasonable at any time. JSfote.—A prettier dish than the above may be made by serving the kidneys each on a piece of buttered toast cut in any fanciful shape. In this case a little lemon-juice will be found an improvement. FBIED KIDNEYS. 725. IiTGHEDiENTS.—Kidneys, butter, pepper and salt to taste. 3Iode.—Cut the kidneys open without quite dividing them, remove the skin, and put a small piece of butter in the frying-pan. When the butter is melted, lay in the kidneys the flat side downwards, and fry them for 7 or 8 minutes, turning them when they are half-done. Serve on a piece of dry toast, season with pepper and salt, and put a small piece of butter in each kidney ; pour the gravy from the pan over them, and serve very hot. Time.—7 or 8 minutes. Average cost^ lid. each. Sufficient.—Allow 1 kidney to each person. Seasonable at any time.