PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. 785 at first how to appreciate this present as it deserved; for the cherry-tree was propagateii 60 slowly in Italy, that more than a century after its introduction it was far from beinjj generally cultivated. The Romans distin<];uished three principal species of cherries—the Apronian, of a bright red, with a firm and delicate pulp ; the Lutatian, very black and sweet; the Ccecilian, round and stubby, and much esteemed. The cherry embellished the third course in Rome and the second at Athens. PEE SERVED NECTARINES. 1562. Ingredients.—To every lb. of sugar allow i pint of water ; nectarines. Mode.—DWidiQ the nectarines in two, take out the stones, and make a strong" syrup with sugar and water in the above proportion. Put in the nectarines, and boil them until they have thoroughly imbibed the sugar. Keep the fruit as whole as possible, and turn it carefully into a pan. The next day boil it again for a few minutes, take out the nectarines, put them into jars, boil the syrup quickly for 5 minutes, pour it over the fruit, and, when cold, cover the preserve down. The syrup and preserve must be carefully skimmed, or it will not be clear. Time—10 minutes to boil the sugar and water ; 20 minutes to boil the fruit the first time, 10 minutes the second time ; o minutes to boil the syrup. Seasoriahle in August and September, but cheapest in September. STEWED NORMANDY PIPPINS. 1563. Ingredients.—1 lb. of Normandy pippins, 1 quart of water, i teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, I teaspoonful of ground ginger, 1 lb. of moist sugar, 1 lemon. Mode—Woil wash the pippins, and put them into 1 quart of water with the above proportion of cinnamon and ginger, and let them stand 12 hours ; then put these all together into a stewpan, with the lemon sliced thinly, and half the moist sugar. Let them boil slowly until the pippins are half done ; then add the remainder of the sugar, and sim- mer until they are quite tender. Serve on glass dishes for dessert. Time.—2 to 3 hours. Average cost^ Is. Qd, Seasonable.—Suitable for a winter dish. ICED ORANGES. 1564. Ingredients.—Oranges; to every lb. of pounded loaf sugar allow the whites of 2 eggs. Mode.—Whisk the whites of the eggs well, stir in the sugar, and beat this mixture for ^ hour. Skin the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible without injuring the pulp of the fruit; pass a thread through the centre of each orange, dip them into the sugar, and tie them to a stick. Place this stick across the oven, and let the 3 R