POULTRY. KABBIT PIE. 981. Ingeedients.—I rabbit, a few slices of ham, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, i teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, a few forcemeat balls, 3 hard-boiled eggs, | pint of gravy, puff crust. Mode.—Cut up the rabbit (which should be young), remove the breastbone, and bone the legs. Put the rabbit, slices of ham, force- meat balls, and hard eggs, by turns, in layers, and season each layer with pepper, salt, pounded mace, and grated nutmeg. Pour in about i pint of water, cover with crust, and bake in a well-heated oven for about ij hour. Should the crust acquire too much colour, place a piece of paper over it to prevent its burning. Yv^hen done, pour in at the top, by means of the hole in the middle of the crust, a little good gravy, which may be made of the breast- and leg-bones of the rabbit and 2 or 3 shank-bones, flavoured with onion, herbs, and spices. Time.—li hour. Average cost^ from Is. to Is. Qd. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle from September to February. Note.—The liver of the rabbit may be boiled, minced, and mixed with the forcemeat balls, when the flavour is liked. FECirNDiTY OF THE Eabbit.—The fruitfulness of this animal has been the subject of •wonder to all naturalists. It breeds seven times in the year, and generally begets seven or eight j^oimg ones at a time. If we suppose this to happen regularly for a period of four years, the progeny that would spring from a single pair would amount to more than a million. As the rabbit, however, has many enemies, it can never be permitted to increase in numbers to such an extent as to prove injurious to mankind; for it not only lurnishes man with an article of food, but is, by_ carnivorous animals of every descrip- tion, mercilessly sacrificed. Notwithstanding this, however, in the time of the Koman power, they once infested the Balearic islands to such an extent, that the inhabitants were obliged to implore the assistance of a miUtary force from Augustus to exterminate them. KAGOUT OF RABBIT OR HARE. 982. Ingredients.—1 rabbit, 3 teaspoonfuls of flour, 3 sliced onions, 2 oz. of butter, a few thin slices of bacon, pepper and salt to taste, 2 slices of lemon, 1 bay-leaf, 1 glass of port wine. Mode.—Slice the onions, and put them into a stewpan with the flour and butter; place the pan near the fire, stir well as the butter melts, till the onions become a rich brown colour, and add, by degrees, a little v>^ater or gravy till the mixture is of the consistency of cream. Cut some thin slices of bacon; lay in these with the rabbit, cut into neat joints; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, the lemon and bay-leaf, and let the whole simmer until tender. Pour in the port wine, give one boil, and serve. Time.-—KhoMt \ hour to simmer the rabbit.