374 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. body and tlie order to feed, when the herdsman proceeds to form himself a shelter, and look after his own comfort for the rest of the day._ As soon as twilight sets in, the whip is again heard echoing the signal for muster; and in the same order in which they were collected, the swine are driven back, each group tailing off to its respective sty, as the herd approaches the villages, till the last grunter, having found his home, the drover seeks his cottage and repose. POBK CUTLETS OB CHOPS. I. 797. lKaj[iEDiENTS.—Loin of pork, pepper and salt to taste. 3fode.—Cut the cutlets from a delicate loin of pork, bone and trim them neatly, and cut away the greater portion of the fat. Season them with pepper; place the gridiron on the tire; when quite hot, lay on the chops and broil them for about ^ hour, turning them 3 or 4 times; and be particular that they are thoroughly done, but not dry. Dish them, sprinkle over a little fine salt, and serve plain, or with tomato sauce, sauce piquante, or pickled gherkins, a few of which should be laid round the dish as a garnish. Time,—About ^ hour. Average cost, lOd, per lb. for chops. Sufficient—Allow 6 for 4 persons. Seasonable from October to March. n. {Another Way.) 798. IiTGEEDiEiTTS.—^Loin,or fore-loin, of pork, egg and bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste; to every tablespoonful of bread crumbs allow \ teaspoonful of minced sage ; clarified butter. Mode,—Qui the cutlets from a loin, or fore-loin, of pork; trim them the same as mutton cutlets, and scrape the top part of the bone. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs, with v^hich have been mixed minced sage and a seasoning of pepper and salt; drop a little clarified butter on them, and press the crumbs well down. Put the frying-pan on the fire, put in some lard; when this is hot, lay in the cutlets, and fry them a light brown on both sides. Take them out, put them before the fire to dry the greasy moisture from them, and dish them on mashed potatoes. Serve with them any sauce that may be preferred; such as tomato sauce, sauce piquante, sauce Robert, or pickled gherkins. Tme.—From 15 to 20 minutes. Average cost, 10c?. per lb. for chops. Sufficient.—Allow 6 cutlets for 4 persons. Seasonable from October to March. J!^ote.—The remains of roast loin of pork may be dressed in the same manner.