CPvEAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. 751 now but heap the v/hip lightly over the top : this should stand as high as possible, and it may be garnished with strips of bright currant jelly, crystallized sweetmeats, or flowers; the small coloured comfits are sometimes used for the purpose of garnishing a trifle, but they are now considered rather old-fashioned. (See coloured plate, Y 1.) Average cost^ with cream at Is. per pint, 5s, Qd. Sujjicient for 1 trifle. Seasonable at any time, VANILLA CEEAM. 1490. Ingredients.—1 pint of milk, the yolks of 8 eggs, G oz. of sugar, 1 oz. of isinglass, flavouring to taste of essence of vanilla. Mode—'^wi the milk and sugar into a saucepan, and let it get hot over a slow fire ; beat up the yolksoi the eggs, to which add gradually the sweetened milk; fla.vour the whole with essence of vanilla, put the mixture into a jug, and place this jug in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir the contents with a wooden spoon one way until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil, or it will be full of lumps. Take it off the fire ; stir in the isinglass, which should be pre- viously dissolved in about \ pint of water, and boiled lor 2 or 3 minutes; pour the cream into an oiled mould, put it in a cool place to set, and turn it out carefully on a dish. Instead of using the essence of vanilla, a pod may be boiled in the milk instead, until the flavour is well extracted. A pod, or a pod and a half, v/ill be found sufficient for the above pro- portion of ingredients. Time.—About 10 minutes to stir the mixture. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 25. 6d. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable at any time. Yakille, or Vanilla, is the fruit of the vanillier, a parasitical herbaceons plant, which flourishes in Brazil, Mexico, and Peru. The fruit is a long capsule, thick and fleshy. Certain species of this fruit contain a pulp with a dehcious perfume and flavour. Yanilla is j)rincipally imported from Mexico. The capsules for export are always picked at perfect matui'ity. The essence is the form in which it is used generally and most conveniently. Its properties are stimulating and exciting. It is in daily use for ices, chocolates, and flavouring confections generally. VICTOBIA SANDWICHES. 1491 • I^^ar.EBiENTS.—4 eggs ; their weight in pounded sugar, butter, and flour; 5 saltspoonfui of salt, a layer of any kind of jam or mar- malade. Jibf?e.—Beat the butter to a cream; dredge in the flour and pounded sugar; stir these ingredients well together, and add the eggs, which