623 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY, Tme.—^ to 1 hour, or longer should the dumplings be very large. Average cost, Hd. each. Sujjlcient for 4 persons. Seaso7iaUe from August to March, but flavourless after the end of January. Lambswool, or Lamasool.—^This old English beverage is composed of apples mixed with ale, and seasoned with sugar and spice. It takes its name from Lamaes abJial, wMch, in ancient British, signifies the day of apple fruit, from being drunk on the apple feast in autumn. In France, a beverage, called by the Parisians raisinee, is made by boihug any given quantity of new wine, skimming it as often as fresh scum rises, and, when it is boiled to half its bulk, straining it. To this apples, pared and cut into quarters, are added; the whole is then allowed to simmer gently, stirring it aU the time with a long wooden spoon, till the apples are thoroughly mixed with the liquor, and the whole forms a species of marmalade, which is extremely agreeable to the taste, having a slight flavour of acidity, like lemon mixed with honey. BICH BAKED APPLE PUDDING. I, 1228. Ingeedients.—^ lb. of the pulp of apples, 4 lb. of loaf sugar, 6 oz. of butter, the rind of 1 lemon, 6 eggs, puff-paste. Mode.—Peel, core, and cut the apples, as for sauce ; put them into a stewpan, with only just sufficient water to prevent them from burning, and let them stew until reduced to a pulp. "Weigh the pulp, and to every J lb. add sifted sugar, grated lemon-rind, and 6 well- beaten eggs. Beat these ingredients well together; then melt the butter, stir it to the other things, put a border of puff-paste round the dish, and bake for rather more than f hour. The butter should not be added until the pudding is ready for the oven, Time.—^ to | hour. Average cost^ Is, lOd, Suffi,cient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. II. {More Economical.) 1229. Ingeedients.—12 large apples, 6 oz. of moist sugar, \ lb. of butter, 4 eggs, 1 pint of bread crumbs. Jibc?e.—Pare, core, and cut the apples, as for sauce, and boil them until reduced to a pulp ; then add the butter, melted, and the j eggs, which should be well whisked. Beat up the pudding for 2 or 3 minutes ; butter a pie-dish; put in a layer of bread crumbs, then the apple, and then another layer of bread crumbs ; flake over these a few itiny pieces of butter, and bake for about J hour. Time.—About i hour. Average cost. Is. 3d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from August to March. Note.~A very good economical pudding may be made merely with apples, I boiled and sweetened, with the addition of a few strips of lemon-peel. A