MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. PLAIN LEMON PUDDING. 1299. Ikgeedients.—I ib. of flour, 6 oz. of lard or dripping, the juice of 1 large lemon, 1 teaspoonful of flour, sugar. Mode.—M.&'ke the above proportions of flour and lard into a smooth paste, and roll it out to the thickness of about i inch. Squeeze the lemon-juice, strain it into a cup, stir the flour into it, and as much moist sugar as will make it into a stiff and thick paste; spread this mixture over the paste, roll it up, secure the ends, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth. Boil for 2 hours. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. MANCHSSTEB PUDDING (to eat Cold). 1300. Ingbedients.—3 oz. of grated bread, i pint of milk, a strip j of lemon-peel, 4 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, sugar to taste, pufl'-paste, jam, 3 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mode.—FldiYom the milk with lemon-peel, by infusing it in 1 the milk for | hour; then strain it on to the bread crumbs, and 1 boil it for 2 or 3 minutes ; add the eggs, leaving out the whites of 2, i the butter, sugar, and brandy; stir all these ingredients well together;' : cover a pie-dish with pufl'-paste, and at the bottom put a thick layer of any kind of jam ; pour the above mixture, cold, on the jam, and ! bake the pudding for an hour. Serve cold, with a little sifted sugar ? sprinkled over. Time.—1 hour. Average cost. Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time, ' SWEET MACABONI PUDDING. 1301. Ikgredients.—2i oz. of macaroni, 2 pints of milk, the rind of 4 lemon, 3 eggs, sugar and grated nutmeg to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls ; of brandy. i 3Iode,—Put the macaroni, with a pint of the milk, into a saucepan | with the lemon-peel, and let it simmer gently until the macaroni is j tender; then put it into a pie-dish without the peel; mix the other ; pint of milk with the eggs; stir these well together, adding the j sugar and brandy, and pour the mixture over the macaroni. Grate a j' little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for | hour, j To make this pudding look nice, a paste should be laid round the \ edges of the dish, and, for variety, a layer of preserve or marmalade | l may be placed on the macaroni: in this case omit the brandy. | J