235 SAUCES; ETC. the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, salt and pepper to taste, 1 glass of port wine. llode,—Put the onion, cut in slices, into a stewpan with the stodt orange-peel, and basil, and let them simmer very gently for i hour oi rather longer, should the gravy not taste sufficiently of the peel iStrain it off, and add to the gravy the remaining ingredients ; let the whole heat through, and, when on the point of boiling, serve very hot in a tureen which should have a cover to it. Time.—Altogether i hour. Sufficient for a small tureen. OYSTER FORCEMEAT, for Roast or Boiled Turkey. 489. I]S'GKEDiENTS.—i pint of bread crumbs, li oz. of chopped suet or butter, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, i saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, 2 eggs, 18 oysters. 3Iode.—Grate the bread very fine, and be careful that no large lumps remain; put it into a basin with the suet, which must be very finely minced, or, when butter is used, that must be cut up into small pieces. Add the herbs, also chopped as small as possible, and seasoning; mix all these well together, until the ingredients are thoroughly mingled. Open and beard the oysters, chop them, but not too small, and add them to the other ingredients. Beat up the eggs, and, with the hand, work altogether, until it is smoothly mixed. The turkey should not be stuffed too full: if there should be too much forcemeat, roll it into balls, fry them, and use them as a garnish. Sufficient for 1 turkey. OYSTER KETCHUP. 490. Ifguedients.—Sufficient oysters to fill a pint measure, 1 pint of sherry, 3 oz. of salt, i drachm of cayenne, 2 drachms of pounded mace. 3Iode.—Procure the oysters very fresh, and open sufficient to fill a pint measure ; save the liquor,, and scald the oysters i it wi'h the sherry; strain the oysters, and put them in a mortar with th:- salt, cayenne, and mace; pound the whole until reduced to a pulp, : hen add it to the liquor in which they were scalded; boil it again five minutes, and skim well; rub the whole through a sieve, and, whe:i cold, bottle and cork closely. The corks should be sealed. Seasonable from September to April. Note.—Cider maybe substituted for ike sherry.