20o MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. GLAZE FOil COVEBIKG COLD HAM8, TONGUES, &g. 4^. Ii^TGEEDiENTS.—Stock Ko. 104 or 107, doubling the quantity of meat in eacl"!. Mode.—We may remark at tlie outset, tliat unless glaze is wanted in very large quantities, it is seldom made expressly. Either of the stocks mentioned above, boiled down and reduced very considerably^ will be found to produce a very g-ood glaze. Put the stock into a stewpan, over a nice clear fire ; let it boil till it becomes somevv^hat stiff, Avhen keep stirring, to prevent its burning. The moment it is sufficiently reduced, and comes to a glaze, turn it out into the glaze- pot, of which we have here given an engraving. As, however, this is not to be found in every establishment, a white earthenware jar would answer the purpose ; and this may be placed in a vessel of boiling water, to melt the glaze when required. It sliould never be warmed in a saucepan, except on the principle of the bain marie, lest it should reduce too much, and become black and bitter. If the glaze is wanted of a pale colour, more veal than beef should be used in making the stock ; and it is as well to omit turnips and celery, as these impart a disagreeable bitter flavour. To Glaze Cold Joints, &c.—Melt the glaze by placing the vessel which contains it^ into the bain marie or saucepan of boiling water ; brush it over the meat with a paste- brush, and if in places it is not quite covered, repeat the operation. The glaze should not be too dark a colour. (See Coloured Cut oi Glazed Ham, P.) Glaze-Kettle.—This is a kettle used for keep- ing the strong stock boiled down to a jelly, which is known by the name of glaze, it is composed of two tin vessels, as shown in the cut, one of which, the upper,—containing the glaze, is inserted into one of larger diameter and containing boiling water, A brush is put in the small hole at the top of the hd, and is emiDloyed for putting the glaze on anything that may require it. The Bain Marie.—So long ago as the time when emperors ruled in Eome, and the yellow Tiber passed through a j)opulous and wealthy city, this utensil was extensively em- ployed ; and it is frequently mentioned by that profound culinary chemist of the ancients, Api- cius. It is an open kind of vessel (as shown in the engraving and explained in our paragraph IS'o. 87, on the French terms used in modern cookery), filled with boiling or nearly boiUng water; and into this water should be put all the stewpans containing those ingredients which it is desired to keep hot. The quantity and quality of the contents of these vessels are not at all all'ected: and if the hour of dinner is uncertain in any establishment, by reason of the nature of the master's business, nothing is eo certain a means of preserving the flavour of aU dishes as the employment of the bain marie. GLAZE-KETTLE. THE BAIN MAEIE.