6G4 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Mode.—Pare, core, and mince the apples into small pieces, and mix them with the other dry ingredients; beat up the eggs, moisten the mixture with these, and beat it well; stir in the brandy, and put the pudding into a buttered mould; tie it down with a cloth, boil for li hour, and serve with sweet sauce. Time.—lh hour. Average cost^ Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. PEASE PUDDING. 1323. Ingeedients.—\\ pint of split peas, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, pepper and salt to taste. 3Iode,—Put the peas to soak over-night, in rain-water, and float off any that are vv^ormeaten or discoloured. Tie them loosely in a clean cloth, leaving a little room for them to swell, and put them on to boil in cold rain-water, allowing 2i hours after the water has simmered up. When the peas are tender, take them up and drain; rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon ; add the butter, eggs, pepper, and salt; beat all well together for a few minutes, until the ingredients are well incorporated; then tie them tightly in a floured cloth; boil the pudding for another hour, turn it on to the dish, and serve very hot. This pudding should always be sent to table with boiled leg of pork, and is an exceedingly nice accompani- ment to boiled beef. Time.—2^ hours to boil the peas, tied loosely in the cloth; 1 hour for the pudding. Average cost, 6d: Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to March. BAKED PLUM-PUDDING-. 1324. INGREDIEJ7TS.—2 Ibs. of flour, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of suet, 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, a few slices of candied peel. Mode.—Cho^ the suet finely ; mix with it the flour, currants, stoned raisins, and candied peel; moisten with the well-beaten eggs, and add sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of very thick batter. Put it into a buttered dish, and bake in a good oven from 2j to 2| hours; turn it out, strew sifted sugar over, and serve. For a very plain pudding, use only half the quantity of fruit, omit the eggs, and substitute milk or water for them. The above ingredients make a large family pudding; for a small one, half the