736 MODERN nOUSEHOLD COOKERY. il/of/e.—Make a thin cream of tlie flour and milk ; then beat up the eggs, mix all together, and add a pinch of salt and a few grains of cayenne. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, and, when very hot, pour in the batter. Let the pan remain for a few minutes over a clear fire; then sprinkle upon the omelet some chopped herbs and a few shreds of onion ; double the omelet dexterously, and shake it out of the pan on to a hot dish. A simple sweet omelet can be made by the same process, substituting sugar or preserve for the chopped herbs. Time.—2 minutes. Average cost, 6cL Sufficient for 2 persons. Scaso7iahle at any time. OBANGE CREAM. 1463. Inghediexts.—I oz. of isinglass, 6 large oranges, 1 lemon, sugar to taste, water, i pint of good cream. Jlfoc?e.—Squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemon; strain it, and put it into a saucepan with the isinglass, and sufficient water to make in all 1| pint. Eub the sugar on the orange and lemon-rind, add it to the other ingredients, and boil all to- gether for about 10 minutes. Strain through a muslin bag, and, when cold, beat up with it h pint of thick cream. 0PL>' MOULD. Wet a mould, or soak it in cold water; pour in the cream, and put it in a cool place to set. If the weather is very cold, 1 oz. of isinglass will be found sufficient for the above proportion of ingredients. Time,—\0 minutes to boil the juice and water. Average cost, with the best isinglass, 35. Sufficient to fill a quart mould. Seasonable from November to May. ORANGE CREAMS. 1464. Ingredients.—1 Seville orange, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, 5 lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 pint of cream. Mode,—Boil the rind of the Seville orange until tender, and beat it in a mortar to a pulp ; add to it the brandy, the strained juice of the orange, and the sugar, and beat all together for about 10 minutes, adding the well-beaten yolks of eggs. Bring the cream to the boiling- point, and pour it very gradually to the other ingredients, and beat the mixture till nearly cold ; put it into custard-cups, place the cups in a deep dish of boiling water, where let them remain till quite cold.