706 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. together for 10 minutes; halve the apricots, take out the stones, and simmer them in the syrup until tender; watch them carefullj^ and take them up the moment they are done, for fear they break. Ar- range them neatly in the flanc or case; boil the syrup until reduced to a jelly, pour it over the fruit, and serve either hot or cold. Oreengages, plums of all kinds, peaches, &c., may be done in the same manner, as also currants, raspberries, gooseberries, strawberries, &c.; but with the last-named fruits, a little currant-juice added to them will be found an improvement. Tem^.—Altogether, 1 hour to bake the fianc, about 10 minutes to simmer the apricots. Average costy Is. 6d. Sufficient for 1 entremets or side-dish. Seasonable in July, August, and September. ABROWBOOT BIjAK"0-MAl^aE. {An inexiHiisim Supper Dish,) 1407. Ingeedients.—4 heaped tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, li pint of milk, 3 laurel-leaves or the rind of i lemon, sugar to taste. Mode,—Mix to a smooth batter the arrowroot with | pint of the milk ; put the other pint on the fire, with laurel-leaves or lemon-peel, whichever may be preferred, and let the milk eteep until it is v/ell flavoured. Then strain the milk, and add it, boiling, to the mixed arrowroot; sweeten it with sifted sugar, and let it boil, stirring it all the time, till it thickens sufficiently to come from the saucepan. Grease a mould with pure salad-oil, pour in the blane-mange, and when quite set, turn it put on a dish, and pour round it a compote of any kind of fruit, or garnish it with jam. A tabiespoonful of brandy, stirred in just before the blanc-mange is moulded, very much improves the flavour of this sweet dish. Time.—Altogether, ^ hour. Average cost, Qd, without the garnishing. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. B L A IT C - M A INT G E . ^ {A Supi^er Dish.) 1408. Ikgkedients.—1 pint of new milk, oz. of isinglass, the rind of | lemon, 5 lb. of loaf sugar, 10 bitter almonds, i oz. of sweet almonds, l pint of cream.