RECIPES. CHAPTER YIII. FISH. [^Nothing is more difficult than to give the average prices of Fish, inasmuch as a few heurs of bad iveather at sea loill, in the space of one day, cause such a difference in its supply, that the same fish—a turhot for instance—which r,iay le lought to-day for six or seven shillings, ivill, to-morrow, he, in the London markets, worth, perhaps, almost as many pounds. The average costs, therefore, which loill he found appended to each recipe, must he understood as about the average price for the different hinds of fish, when the marJcet is supplied upon an average, and when the various sorts are of an average size and quality. General Rule in Choosing Fish.—A proof of freshness and goodness in most fishes, is their being covered with scales ; for, if deficient in this respect, it is a sign of their being stale, or having been ill-used.'\ FKIED ANCHOVIES. 226. Ingeedieis^ts.—1 tablespoonful of oil, i a glass of wliite wine, sufficient flour to thicken; 12 anchovies. 3£ode.—Mix the oil and wine together, with sufficient flour to make them into a thickish paste; cleanse the anchovies, wipe them, dip them in the paste, and fry of a nice brown colour. 2Yme.—^ hour. Average cost for this quantity, 9c7. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 2 persons. The Anchovy.—In his book of " British Fishes/* Mr. Yarr ell states that "the anchovy is a common fish in the Mediterranean, from Greece to Gibraltar, and was well known to the Greeks and Eomans, by whom the liquor prepared from it, called garum, was in great estimation. Its extreme range is extended into the Black Sea. The fishing for them is carried on during the night, and lights are used with the nets. The anchovy is common on the coasts of Portugal, Spain, and France. It occurs, I have no doubt, at the Channel Islands, and has. been taken on the Hampshire coast, and in the Bris- tol Channel." Other fish, of inferior quality, but resembhng the real Gorgona anchovy, are frequently sold for it, and passed off as genuine. I2 THE AJSrCHOVT.