GAME. 511 description of the modus operandi pursued in this sport. A thin wood is ilsiially the spot chosen, and, under a tree at a Httle distance from the others, a cabin is erected, and there are only such branches left on the tree as are necessary for the placing of the birdlime, and which are covered with it. Around the cabin are placed avenues with twisted perches, also covered with birdlime. Having thus prepared all that is necessary, the birdcatcher places himself in the cabin, and, at sunrise and sunset, imitates the cry of a small bird calling the others to its assistance. Supposing that the cry of the owl is imitated, immediately different kinds of birds will flock together at the cry of their common enemy, when, a-t every instant, they will be seen falling to the ground, their wings being of no use to them, from their having come in contact with the birdUme. The cries of those which are thus situated now • attract others, and thus are large numbers taken in a short space of time. If owls were themselves desired to be taken, it is only during the night that this can be done, by counterfeiting the squeak of the mouse. Larks, other birds, and v\'ater-fowl, are sometimes taken by nets ; but to describe fully the manner in vv hich this is done, would here occupy too much space. 1016. Feathered Game have from time immemorial given gratification to the palate of man. With the exception of birds of prey, and some other species, Moses permitted his people to eat them ; and the Egyptians made offerings to their priests of their most delicate birds. The ancient Greeks commenced their rei3asts with little roasted birds ; and feathered game, amongst the Romans, was served as the second course. Indeed, several of the dLiiQiQiit goimnands i\iQ imperial city" were so fond of game, that they brought themselves to ruin by eating flamingoes and pheasants. Some I modern nations, the French among others," srxys Monsieur Soyer, " form.erly I ate the heron, crane, crow, stork, swan, corm-orant, and bittern. The first three especially were highly esteemed ; and Lalllevant, cook of Charles VII., teaches us how to prepare these meagre, tough birds. Belon says, that in spite of its revolting taste when unaccustomed to it, the bittern is, however, among the delicious treats of the French. This writer also asserts, that a falcon or a vulture, either roasted or boiled, is excellent eating ; and that if one of these birds happened to kill itself in flying after game, the falconer instantly cooked it. Lebaut calls the heron a royal viand." 1017. The Heron WAS HUNTED by the Hawk, and the sport of hawking is usually placed at the head of those amusements that can only be practised in the country. This precedency it probably obtained from its being a pastime so generally followed by the nobility, not in Great Britain only, but likewiso on the continent. In former times, persons of high rank rarely appeared in public without their dogs and their hawks : the latter they carried v/ith them when they journeyed from one country to another, and sometimes even took I them to battle with them, and would not part with them when taken prisoners, j even to obtain their own liberty. Such birds were esteemed as the ensigns of nobility, and no action was reckoned more dishonourable in a man of rank than