80 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Mode.—Drop the semolina into the boiling stock, and keep stirring, to prevent its burning. Simmer gently for half an hour, and serve. Time~l an hour. Average costy lOd, per quart, or 4.d, /Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Semolina.—This is the heart of the grano duro wheat of Italy, which is imported for the purpose of making the best vermicelli. It has a coarse appearance, and may be ^purchased at the Italian warehouses. It is also called soojee j and semoletta is another name for a finer sort. SOUP A LA SOLPEBIITO (Sardinian Recipe). 154. Ingkedients.—4 eggs, J pint of cream, 2 oz. of fresh butter, salt and pepper to taste, a little flour to thicken, 2 quarts of bouillon, No. 105. Mode.—Beat the eggs,'put them into a stewpan, and add the cream, butter, and seasoning; stir in as much flour as will bring it to the consistency of dough; make it into balls, either round or egg- shaped, and fry them in butter; put them in the tureen, and pour the boiling bouillon over them. Time.—1 hour. Average cost, Is. dd. per quart. Seasonable all the 3'ear. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This receipe was communicated to the Editress by an English gentle- man, who was present at the battle of Solferino, on June 24, 1859, and who was requested by some of Victor Emmanuel's troops, on the day before the battle, to partake of a portion of their potage. He willingly enough consented, and found that these clever campaigners had made a most palatable dish from very easily-procured materials. In sending the recipe for insertion in this work, he has, however, Anglicised, and somewhat, he thinks, improved it. SPIIsrACH SOUP (Frencli Becipe). 155. Ingredients.—As much spinach as, when boiled, will half fill a vegetable-dish, 2 quarts of very clear medium stock, No. 105. Mode.—Make the cooked spinach into balls the size of an egg, and slip them into the soup-tureen. This is a very elegant soup, the green of the spinach forming a pretty contrast to the brown gravy. Time.—1 hour. Average cost. Is. per quart. Seasonable from October to June. SpiifAcn.—This plant was unknown by the ancients, although it was cultivated in the monastic gardens of the continent in the middle of the 14th century. Some say, that it was originalh' ePi^TACH. brought from Spain; but there is a wild species growing in England, and cultivated in Lincohishire, in preference to the other. There are thno varieties in use; the round-leaved, the triangiUar-leaved, and'