14 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. the signal for the ladies to leave the gentlemen, and retire to the drawing- room. The gentlemen of the party will rise at the same time, and he who is nearest the door, will open it for the ladies, all remaining courteously standing until the last lady has withdrawn. Dr. Johnson has a curious jjaragraph on the effects of a dinner on men. " Before dinner," he says, "men meet with great inequality of understanding; and those who are con- scious of their inferiority have the modesty not to talk. When they have drunk wine, every man fieels himselt happy, and loses that modesty, and grows impudent and vociferous ; but he is not improved, he is only not sensible of his defects." This is rather severe, but there may be truth in it. In former times, when the bottle circulated freely amongst the guests, it was necessary for the ladies to retire earlier than they do at present, for the gentlemen ol tne company soon became unfit to conduct themselves with that decorum which is essential in the presence ot ladies. Thanks, however, to the improvements in modern society, and the high example shown to the nation by its most illustrious personages, temperance is, in these happy days, a striking feature m the character of a gentleman. Delicacy of con- duct towards the female sex has increased with tJie esteem in wlucn they are now universally held, and thus, the very early withdrawing ot the ladies from the dining-room is to be deprecated. A lull in the conversation will seasonaDly indicate the moment for liie ladies* departure, 39. After-dinner Invitations may be given ; by which we wish to be understood, invitations for the evening. The time of the arrival of these visitors will vary according to their engagements, or sometimes will be varied in obedience to the caprices of fashion. Guests invited for the evening are, bowever, generally considered at liberty to arrive whenever it will best sidt themselves,—usually between nine and twelve, unless earlier hours are specihcally named. By this arrangement, many fashionable people and otners, who have numerous engagements to fuitil, oiten contrive to make tiieii appearance at two or three parties in the course of one evening. 40. The Etiquette op the Dinner-party Table being disposed of, let us now enter shgiitiy into that ot an evening party or ball. The invitations issued and accepted for either of these, will be written in the same style as those already described for a dinner-party. They should be sent out at least three weeks before the day fixed for the event, and should be replied to witnin a week ot ttieir receipt. By attending to tnese courtesies, the guests will have time to consider ttreir engagements and prepare their dresses, and the Hostess will, also, ijnow wuat will be tne number of her party. If the entertainment is to be simply an evening party, this must be specified on the card or note of invitation. Short or verbal invitations, except where persons are exceedingly intimate, or are very near relations, are very far from proper, although, of course, in this respect and in many other respects, very much always depends on the manner in which the invitation is given. True politeness, however, should be studied even amongst the nearest friends and relations; for the mechanical forms of good breeding are of great consequence, and too much famiharity may have, for its eifect, the destruction of friendship. 41. As THE Ladies and Gentlemen arrive, each should bo shown to a room exclusiv^ely provided for their reception; and in that set apart for tho