^3 BOILED FOWL, iooo. This will not be found a very difficult member of the poultry family to carve, unless, as may happen, a very old farmyp.rd oc- cupant, useless for egg-laying purposes, has, by some unlucky mischance, been introduced ' ~ into the kitchen as a "fine young chicken." ^| ^ . Skill, however, and the application of a small ^iLi^T^ -..-^^^i^ amount of strength, combined with a fine - _ -n . . BOILED FOWL. keeping of the temper, will even get over that difficulty. Fixing the fork firmly in the breast, let the knife be sharply passed along the line shown from 1 to 2; then cut doY^nwards from that line to fig. 3 ; and the wing, it will be found, can be easily withdrawn. The shape of the wing should be like the accompanying engraving. Let the fork be placed inside the leg, which should be gently forced away from the body of the fowl; and the joint, being thus discovered, the carver can readily cut through it, and the leg can be served. When the leg is displaced, it should be of the same shape as that shown in the annexed woodcut. The legs and v/ings on either side having been taken off, the carver should draw his knife through the fi.esh in the direction of the line 4 to 5 : by this means the knife can be slipped underneath the merrythought, v/hich, being lifted up and pressed backward, will imme- KEciBoiTE'S iowl. diately come ofi\ The collar- or neck-bones are the next to consider: these lie on each side of the m.errythought, close under the upper part of the wings ; and, in order to free these from the fowl, they must also be raised by the knife at their broad end, and turned from the body towards the breastbone, until the shorter piece of the bone, as shown in the cut, breaks off. There will now be left only the breast, with the ribs. The breast can be, without difficulty, disengaged from the ribs by cutting through the latter, which will offer little impediment. The side-bones are now to be taken off; and to do this, the lower end of the back should be turned from the carver, who should press the point of the knife through the top of the backbone, near the centre, bringing it down towards the end of the back completely through the bone. If the knife is now turned in the opposite direction, the joint will be easily separated from the vertebrae. The backbone being now uppermost, the fork should be pressed firmly down on it, whilst at the same time the knife should