BEEF. 815 3fode.—Rub the above ingredients well into the tongue, and let it remain in the pickle for 10 da3^s or a fortnight; then drain it, tie it up in brown paper, and have it smoked for about 20 days over a wood fire; or it may be boiled out of this pickle. Time.—From 10 to 14 days to remain in the pickle ; to be smoked 24 days. Average cost, for a medium-sized uncured tongue, 25. Qd. Seasonable at any time. JS^ote.—If not wanted immediately, the tongue will keep 3 or 4 weeks without being too salt; then it must not be rubbed, but only turned in the pickle. II. 675. INGREDIENTS.—9 Ibs. of Salt, 8 oz. of sugar, 9 oz. of powdered saltpetre. Mode.—Eub the above ingredients well into the tongues, and keep them in this curing mixture for 2 months, turning them every day. Drain them from the pickle, cover Vv^ith brown paper, and have them smoked for about 3 weeks. Ti77ie.—The tongues to remain in pickle 2 months; to be smoked 3 v/eeks. Svfficient.—The above quantity of brine sufUcient for 12 tongues, of 5 lbs. each. Seasonable at any time. The Tongues oe Animals.—The tongue, whether in the ox or in man, is the seat of the sense of taste. This sense warns the animal against swallowing deleterious sub- stances. Dr. Carpenter says, that, among the lower animals, the instinctive perceptions con- nected with this sense, are much more remark- able than our own; thus, an omnivorous monkey will seldom touch fruits of a poisonous character, although their taste may be agreeable. How- ever this may be, man's instinct has decided beee tokgue. that ox-tongue is better tha,n horse-tongue; nevertheless, the latter is frequently substituted by dishonest dealers for the former. The horse's tongue may be readily distinguished by a spoon-hke expansion at its end. TO PICKLE .iLHD DRESS A TONGUE TO EAl^ COLD. 676. Ikgeedients.—6 oz. of salt, 2 oz. of bay-salt, 1 oz. of saltpetre, 3 oz. of coarse sugar; cloves, mace, and allspice to taste; butter, common crust of flour and v/ater. 3Iode.—Lay the tongue for a fortnight in the above pickle, turn it every day, and be particular that the spices are well pounded ; put it into a small pan just large enough to hold it, place some pieces of butter on it, and cover with a common crust. Bake in a slow oven