MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 790 tains, and are dried as an article of food. The young leaves of tlie peacli are sometimes used in cookei*y, from their agreeable flavour; and a liqueur resembling the fine noyeau of Martinique may be made by steeping them in brandy sweetened with sugar and lined with milk : gin may also be flavoured in the same manner. The kernels of the fruit have the same flavour. The nectarine is said to have received its name from nectar, the particular drink of the gods. Though it is considered as the same species as the peach, it is not known which of the varieties come from the other; the nectarine is by some considered as the superior fruit. PEACHES PBESESVED 11^ BrvAHDY". 1573. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit weiglied before being* stoned, allow ^ lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar ; brandy. 3fode.—Let the fruit be gathered in dry weather; wipe and weigh it, and remove the stones as carefully as possible, without injuring the peaches much. Put them into a jar, sprinkle amongst them pounded loaf sugar in the above proportion, and pour brandy over the fruit. Cover the jar down closely, place it in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, and bring the brandy to the simmering-point, but do not allow it to boil. Take the fruit out carefully, without breaking it; put it into small jars, pour over it the brandy, and, when cold, exclude the air by covering the jars with bladders, or tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Apricots may be done in the same manner, and, if properly prepared, will be found delicious. Time.—Erom 10 to 20 minutes to bring the brandy to the simmer- ing-point. Seasonable in August and September. BAKED PSABS. 1574. Ingeebients.—12 pears, the rind of 1 lemon, 6 cloves, 10 whole allspice ; to every pint of water allow -h lb. of loaf sugar. 3Iode.—Pare and cut the pears into halves, and, should they be very large, into quarters ; leave the stalks on, and carefully remove the cores. Place them in a clean baking-jar, with a closely-fitting lid ; add to them the lemon-rind cut in strips, the juice of i lemon, the cloves, pounded allspice, and sufficient water just to cover the whole, with sugar in the above proportion. Cover the jar down closely, put it into a very cool oven, and bake the pears from 5 to 6 hours, but be very careful that the oven is not too hot. To improve the colour of the fruit, a few drops of prepared cochineal may be added; but this will not be found necessary if the pears are very gently baked. 2Vme.—Large pears, 5 to 6 hours, in a very slow oven. Average cost, Id, to 2d. each. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from September to January. Peak.—The pear, like the apple, is indigenous to this country; but the wild pear is ft very unsatisfactory fruit. The best varieties were brought from the East by the Komans,