12 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. Mr. and Mrs. A present their compliments to Mr. and Mrs. B , and request the honour, [or hope to have the pleasure] ot their company to dinner on Wednesday, the 6th of December next. A Street, Novemler \Wi, 1859. R. S. V. P. The letters in the corner imply Repond.ez, sHl vous plait;*' meaning, an answer will oblige." The reply, accepting the invitation, is couched in the following terms :— Mr. and Mrs. B present their compliments to Mr. and Mrs. A , and will do themselves the honour of, [or will have much IDleasure in] accepting their kind invitation to dinner on the 6th of Decem- ber next. B Square, JS'Ovemher ISih, 1859. Cards, or invitations for a dinner-party, should be issued a fortnight or three weeks (sometimes even a month) beforehand, and care should be taken by the hostess, in the selection of the invited guests, that they should be suited to each other. Much also of the pleasure of a dinner-party will depend on the arrangement of the guests at table, so as to form a due admixture of talkers and listeners, the grave and the gay. If an invita- tion to dinner is accepted, the guests should be punctual, and the mistress ready in her drawing-room to receive them. At some periods it has been considered fashionable to come late to dinner, but lately nous avons change tout cela, 34. The Half-hour before Dinner has always been considered as the great ordeal through which the mistress, in giving a dinner-party, will either pass with flying colours, or, lose many of her laurels. The anxiety to receive her guests,—her hope that all will be present in due time,—her trust in the skill of her cook, and the attention of the other domestics, all tend to make these few minutes a trying time. The mistress, however, must display no kind of agitation, but show her tact in suggesting light and cheerful subjects of conversation, which will be much aided by the introduction of any i)ar- ticular new book, curiosity of art, or article of vcrtu, which may pleasantly engage the attention of the company. " Waiting for Dinner," however, is a trying time, and there are few who have not felt— How sad it is to sit and pine, The long half-hour before we dine ! Upon our watches oft to look. Then wonder at the clock and cook, •3;- -ii- % -K- -it And strive to laugh in spite of Fate I But laughter forced soon quits the room, And leaves it in its former gloom. But lo! the dinner now appears. The object of our hopes and fears, The end of all our pain !** In giving an entertainment of this kind, the mistress should remember that it is her duty to make her guests feel happy, comfortable, and quite at their ease; and the guests