660 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, taste, and put the mixture into a pie-dish previously lined with puff- paste. Bake for rather more than fhour; turn it out of the dish, strew sifted sug-ar over, and serve. Time.—Udith.eT more than i hour. Average cost, Is. Gd. Svfficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seosonahle from November to May. Oran"GE (Citrus Aurantiiim).—The principal varieties are tlie sweet, or China orange, and the bitter, or Seville orange; the Maltese is also ^vortlly of notice, from its red blood-like pulp. The orange is extensively cultivated in the south of Europe, and in Devonshire, on walls with a south aspect, it bears an abundance of fruit. So great is the increase in the demand for the orange, and so ample the supply, that it promises to rival the apple in its popu- larity. The orange-tree is considered young at the age of a hundred years. The pulp of the orange consists of a collection of oblong vesicles filled v.'ith a sugary and re- freshing juice. The orange blossom is loroverbiaUy chosen for the bridal wreath, and, from the same flower, an es- sential oil is extracted hardly less esteemed than the cele- brated ottar of roses. Of all marmalades, that made from the Seville orange is the best. The peel and juice of the orange are much used in culinary preparations. From oranges are made preserves, comfitures, jellies, glacds, sherbet, liqueurs, and syi'ups. The juice of the orange in a glass d'eau sucree makes a refreshing and wholesome drink. From the clarified pulp of the orange the French make a delicious jelly, which they serve in small pots, and call creine. The rasped peel of the orange is used in several sweet entremets, to which it communicates its perfume. The confectioner manufactures a variety of dainties from all parts of the orange. Confections of orange-peel are excellent tonics and stomachics. Persons with delicate stomachs should abstain from oranges at dessert, because their acidity is likely to derange the digestive organs. SMALL DISHES OF PASTEY FOR ENTEEMETS, SUPPER- DISHES, &c. FAlSrCHOnsrNETTES, or CITSTARD TARTLETS. 1315. Ingeedients.—For the custard, 4 eggs, f pint of milk, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of pounded sugar, 3 dessertspoonfuls of flour, flavouring to taste ; the whites of 2 eggs, 2 oz. of pounded sugar. 3fode.—Well beat the eggs; stir to them the milk, the butter, which should be beaten to a cream, the sugar, and flour; mix these ingre- dients well together, put them into a very clean saucepan, and bring them to the simmering point, but do not allow them to boil. Flavour with essence of vanilla, bitter almonds, lemon, grated chocolate, or any flavouring ingredient that may be preferred. Line some round tartlet-pans with good puff-paste ; fill them with the custard, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes ; then take them out of the pans ; let them cool, and in the mean time whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir into this the pounded sugar, and spread smoothly over the tartlets a little of this mixture. Put them in the oven again to set the icing, but be particular that they do not scorch :