HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. ■which imparts to the gift a value far beyond its actual amouut; and is by far its better part. True Charity, a plant divinely nursed, I'ed by the love from which it rose at first, Thrives against hope, and, in the rudest scene. Storms but enliven its unfading green ; Exub'rant is the shadow it supplies. Its fruit on earth, its growth above the skies. Visiting the houses of the poor is the only practical way really to understand the actnaJ state of each family j and although there may be difficulties in following out this plan in the metropolis and other large cities, yet in country towns and rural districts these objections do not obtain. Great advantages may result from visits paid to the poor; for there being, unfortunately, much ignorance, generally, amongst them with respect to all household knowledge, there will be opportunities for advising and instructing them, in a pleasant and unobtrusive manner, in cleanliness, industry, cookery, and good management. 15. In Marketing, that the Best Articles are the Cheapest, may be laid down as a rule ; and it is desirable, unless an experienced and confi' dential housekeeper be kept, that the mistress should herself purchase all provisions and stores needed for the house. If the mistress be a j^oung wife, and not accustomed to order "things for the house," a little practice and experience will soon teach her who are the best tradespeople to deal with, and. w^hat are the best provisions to buy. Under each particular head of Fish, Meat, Poultry, Game, &c., will be described the proper means of ascertaining the quality of these comestibles. 16. A Housekeeping Account-book should invariably be kept, and kept punctually and precisely. The plan for keeping household accounts, which we should recommend, would be to make an entry, that is, write down into a daily diary every amount paid on that particular day, be it ever so small; then, at the end of the month, let these various payments be ranged under their specific heads of Butcher, Baker, &c. ; and thus will be seen the pro- portions paid to each tradesman, and any one month's expenses may be con- trasted with another. The housekeeping accounts should be balanced not less than once a month; so that you may see that the money you have in hand tallies with your account of it in your diary. Judge Haliburton never wrote truer words than when he said, " No man is rich whose expenditure exceeds his means, and no one is poor whose incomings exceed his outgoings." When, in a large establishment, a housekeeper is kept, it will be advisable for the - mistress to examine her accounts regularly. Then any increase ol expenditure which may be apparent, can easily be explained, and the housekeeper will have the satisfaction of knowing whether her efforts to manage her department well and economically, have been successful. 17. Engaging Domestics is one of those duties in which the judgment of the njistress must be keenly exercised. There arc some respectable registry-offices, where good servients may sometimes be hired; but the plan rather to be recommended is, for the mistress to make inquiry amongst her