m MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, crust, 1 teacupful of gravy. may be boiled or stewed in various ways, with rice, onion-sauce, or parsley and butter. Time.—Ahont 2 hours. Average cost^ Sd. per lb. Sufficient.—4 or 5 lbs. for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL OLIVE PIE (Cold Meat Cookery). 895. Ikgeedients.—A few thin slices of cold fillet of veal, a few thin slices of bacon, forcemeat No. 417, a cupful of gravy, 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, puff-crust. Jfoe^^.—Cut thin slices from a fillet of veal, place on them thin slices of bacon, and over them a layer of forcemeat, made by recipe No. 417, with an additional seasoning of shalot and cayenne ; roll them tightly, and fill up a pie-dish with them; add the gravy and cream, cover with a puff-crust, and bake for 1 to li hour: should the pie be very large, allow 2 hours. The pieces of rolled veal should be about 3 inches in length, and about 3 inches round. Titne.—Moderate-sized pie, 1 to H hour. Seasonable from March to October. FBIBD PATTIES (Cold Meat Cookery). 896. IiTGEEDiENTS.—Cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 1 egg boiled hard, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, gravy, cream, 1 teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, good puff-paste. Mode,—Mince a little cold veal and ham, allowing one-third ham to two-thirds veal; add an egg boiled hard and chopped, and a seasoning of pounded mace, salt, pepper, and lemon-peel; moisten with a little gravy and cream. Make a good puff-paste ; roll rather thin, and cut it into round or square pieces ; put the mince between two of them, pinch the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry a light brown. They may be also baked in patty-pans : in that case, they should be brushed over with the yolk of an egg before they aro put in the oven. To make a variety, oysters may be substituted for the ham. Time,—15 minutes to fry the patties. Seasonable from March to October. VEAL PIE. 897. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of veal cutlets, 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon or ham, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced savoury