BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 853 SEED BISCUITS. 1749. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of sifted sugar, ~ lb. of butter, I oz. of caraway seeds, 3 eggs. Mode.—Beat the butter to a cream ; stir in tbe flour, sugar, and caraway seeds ; and when these ingredients are well mixed, add the eggs, which should be y/ell whisked. EoU out the paste, with a round cutter shape out the biscuits, and bake them in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. The tops of the biscuits may be brushed over with a little milk or the white of an egg, and then a little sugar strewn over. Time.—10 to 15 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient to make 3 dozen biscuits. Seasonable at any time. SIMPLE HABD BISCUITS. 1750. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 2 oz. of butter, about i pint of skimmed milk. 3Iode.—Warm the butter in the milk until the former is dissolved, and then mix it with the flour into a very stiff paste ; beat it with a rolling-pin until the dough looks perfectly smooth. Eoll it out thin; cut it with the top of a glass into round biscuits; prick them Vv^ell, and bake them from 6 to 10 minutes. The above is the proportion of milk which we think would convert the flour into a stift' paste; but should it be found too much, an extra spoonful or two of flour must be put in. These biscuits are very nice for the cheese course. Time.—6 to 10 minutes. Seasonable at any time. SODA BISCUITS. 1751. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of flour, i lb. of pounded loaf sugar, i lb. of fresh butter, 2 eggs, 1 small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—Put the flour (which should be perfectly dry) into a basin; rub in the butter, add the sugar, and mix these ingredients well toge- ther. "Whisk the eggs, stir them into the mixture, and beat it well, until everything is well incorporated. Quickly stir in the soda, roll the paste out until it is about | inch thick, cut it into small round I cakes with a tin cutter, and bake them from 12 to 18 minutes in rather a brisk oven. After the soda is added, great expedition is necessary in rolling and cutting out the paste, and in putting thg biscuits immediately into the oven, or they will be heavy. Time.—\2 to 18 minutes. Average cost, Is. Sufficient to make about 3 dozen cakes. Seasonable at any time.