RECIPES, CHAPTER YI. FBUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. [7^ will he seen, hy reference to the folloioing Recipes, that an entirely original and most intelligiUe system has leen pursued in explaining the preparation of each dish. We would recommend the young housekeeper, cooh, or whoever may le engaged in the important task of ''getting ready" the dingier, or other meal, to follow precisely the order in ivhich the recipes are given. Thus, let them first place on their tahle all <Ae Ingredients necessary; then the modus operandi^ or MODE of preparation, will he easily managed. By a careful reading, too, of the recipes, there will not he the slightest difficulty in arranging a repast for any mmher of persons, and an accurate notion ivill he gained of the Time the cooking of each dish ivill occupy, of the periods at ivhich ft is Seasonable^ as also of its Average Cost. The addition of the natural history, and the description of the various pro- perties of the edihle articles in common use in every family, will he serviceahle hoth in a practical and an educational point of view. SpeaJcing specially of the Recipes for Soups, it may he added, that hy the employment of the Best, Medium, or Common Stock, the quality of the Soupi and their cost may he proportionately increased or lessened.'] STOCKS FOR ALL KITOS OF SOUPS. BICH STEOSTG STOCK. 104. Ingeedients.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, fib. of good lean ham ; any poultry trimmings ; 3 small onions, 3 small carrots, 3 turnips (the latter should be omitted in summer, lest they ferment), 1 head of celery, a few chopped mushrooms, when obtain- able ; 1 tomato, a banch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley; li oz. of salt, 12 white peppercorns, 6 cloves, 3 small blades of mace, 4 quarts of water. Mode.^lAuQ a delicately clean stewpan with the ham cut in thin broad slices, carefully trimming off all its rusty fat; cut up the beef and veal in pieces about 3 inches square, and lay them on the ham; set it on the stove, and draw it down, and stir frequently. When