Zd5 MUTTON. Seasonable in September and October, when tomatoes are plentiful and seasonable. SsEPHEups AKD THEiB Flocks.—The shepherd's crook is older than either the husbandman's plough or the warrior's sword. We are told that Abel was a keeper of sheep. Many passages in holy writ enable us to appreciate the pastoral riclics of the first eastern nations ; and we can form an idea of the number of their flocks, when we read that Jacob gave the children of Hamor a hxmdred sheep for the price of a field, and that the king of Israel received a hundred thousand every year from the king of Moab, his tributary, and a like number of rams covered with their fleece. The tendency which most sheep have to ramble, renders it necessary for them to be attended by a shepherd. To keep a flock within bounds is no easy task; but the watchful shepherd manages to accomplish it without harassing the sheep. In the Highlands of Scotland, where the herbage is scanty, the sheep-farm requires to be very large, and to bo watched over by many shepherds. The farms of some of the great Scottish landowners are of enormous extent. "How many sheei3 have you on your estate ?" asked Prince Esterhazy of the duke of Argyll. "I have not the most remote idea/' replied the duke; " but I know the shepherds number several thousands." BBOIIiED MUTTOK CHOPS. 711. Ingredients.—Loin of mutton, pepper and salt, a small piece of butter. 3fode,—Cut the cbops from a well-bung tender loin of mutton, remove a portion of the fat, and trim them into a nice shape; slightly beat and level them ; place the gridiron over a bright clear fire, rub the bars v/ith a little fat, and lay on the chops. Whilst broiling, frequently turn them, and in about 8 minutes they will be done. Season with pepper and salt, dish them on a very hot dish, rub a small piece of butter on each chop, and serve very hot and expeditiously. 2Yme.—About 8 minutes. Average costj lOd. per lb. Sufficient.—Allow 1 chop to each person. Seasonable at any time. CHINA CHILO. 712. Tngeedients.—li lb. of leg, loin, or neck of mutton, 2 onions, 2 lettuces, 1 pint of green peas, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, | pint of water, J lb. of clarified butter ; when liked, a little cayenne. Ifode.—Mince the above quantity of undressed leg, loin, or neck of mutton, adding a little of the fat, also minced; put it into a stewpan with the remaining ingredients, previously shredding the lettuce and onion rather fine ; closely cover the stewpan, after the ingredients have been well stirred, and simmer gently for rather more than 2 hours. Serve in a dish, with a border of rice round, the same as for curry. Tme.—Eather more than 2 hours. Average cost, Is. 6d, Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable from June to August.