rUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 637 add tliese to the pudding; beat all <tlie ingredients until thoroughly blended, and put them into a buttered mould or basin; boil for 2 hours, and serve with sweet sauce. Time,—2 hours. Average cost, dd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Scasonahle at any time. BAKED OE, BOILED CARROT PUDBINa. 1259. Inghedients.—2-lb. of bread crumbs, 4 oz. of suet, Jib. of stoned raisins, | lb. of carrot, | lb. of currants, 3 oz. of sugar, 3 eggs, milk, I nutmeg. jssBIode.—Boil the carrots until tender enough to mash to a pulp; add the remaining ingredients, and moisten vnih sufEcient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter. If to be boiled, put the mixture into a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 21- hours : if to be baked, put it into a pie-dish^ and bake for nearly an hour ; turn it out of the dish, strew sifted sugar over it, and serve. Time.—2| hours to boil; 1 hour to bake. Average cost. Is. 2d* Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to March. Caeeots, says Liebig, contain the same kind of sugar as tlic juice of tlie sngar-caue, ROTAIi COBURG PUDDIlTa. 1260. Ingredients.—1 pint of new milk, 6 oz. of flour, 6 oz. of sugar, 6 oz. of butter, 6 oz. of currants, 6 eggs, brandy and grated nutmeg to taste. 3Iode.—MiK the flour to a smooth batter with the milk, add the remaining ingredients gradually^ and when well mixed, put it into four basins or moulds half full; bake for f hour, turn the puddings out on a dish, and serve with wine sauce. Time.—f hour. Average cost. Is. 9d. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time, CHERRY TART. 1261. Ingeedients.—li lb. of cherries, 2 small tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, | lb. of short crust, K"o. 1210 or 1211. J/o Je.—Pick the stalks from the cherries, put them, with the sugar, into a deep pie-dish just capable of holding them, with a small cup placed upside down in the midst of them. Make a short crust with i lb. 1 of flour, by either of the recipes 1210 or 1211; lay a border round the i edge of the dish; put on the cover, and ornament the edges ; bake in a brisk oven from i hour to 40 minutes; strew finely-sifted sugar oyer,