85 MEAT, rOULTRY, AND GAME SOUPS. Time,—6i hours. Average costy l^d. per quart. Note.—The above recipe was used in the winter of 1858 by the Editress, who made, each week, in her copper, 8 or 9 gallons of this soup, for distribu- tion amongst about a dozen families of the village near which she lives. The cost, as will be seen, was not great; but she has reason to believe that the soup was very much liked, and gave to the members of those families, a dish of warm, comforting food, in place of the cold meat and piece of bread which form, with too many cottagers, their usual meal, when, with a little more knowledge of the cooking" art, they might have, for less expense, a warm dish every day. MEAT, POULTEY, AND GAME SOUPS. BBILLA SOUP. 166. Ii^GiiEDiENTS.—4 lbs. of shin of beef, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, a large sprig of thyme, 2 onions, 1 head of celery, salt and pepper to taste, 4 quarts water. Mode,—Take the beef, cut off all the meat from the bone, in nice square pieces, and boil the bone for 4 hours. Strain the liquor, let it cool, and take off the fat; then put the pieces of meat in the cold liquor; cut small the carrots, turnips, and celery ; chop the onions, add them with the thyme and seasoning, and simmer till the meat is tender. If not brown enough, colour it with browning. Time.—Q hours. Average cost, 5d, per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 10 persons. Thyme.—This sweet herb was known to the Romans, who made use of it in culincry preparations, as well as in aromatic liqueurs. There are two species of it growing wild in liritain, hut the garden thj me is a native of the south of Europe, and is more delicate in its perfume than the others. Its young leaves give an agreeable flavour to soups and sauces; they are also used in stuffings. CALF'S-HEAD SOUP. 167. Ingeedients.—4 a calf's head, 1 onion stuck with cloves, a very small bunch of sweet herbs, 2 blades of mace, salt and white pepper to taste, 6 oz. of rice-flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 3 quarts of white stock, No. 107, or pot-liquor, or water. Mode.—Rub the head with salt, soak it for 6 hours, and clean it thoroughly; put it in the stewpan, and cover it with the stock, or pot-liquor, or vvater, adding the onion and sweet herbs. "When v eil skimmed and boiled for l-J- hour, take out the head, and skim and