655 VEGETABLES. ASPARAGUS PEAS. (Entremets, or to be served as a Side-dish, with the Second Course.) 1088. iNGiiEDiENTS.—100 heads of asparagus, 2 oz. of butter, a small bunch of parsley, 2 or 3 green onions, flour, 1 lump of sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream, salt. Jfot/e.—Carefully scrape the asparagus, cut it into pieces of an equal size, avoiding that which is iu the least hard or tough, and throw them into cold water. Then boil the asparagus in salt and water until three-parts done ; take it out, drain, and place it on a cloth to dry the moisture away from it. Put it into a stewpan with the butter, parsley, and onions, and. shake over a brisk fire for 10 minutes. Dredge in a little flour, add the sugar, and moisten with boiling water. When boiled a short time and reduced, take out the parsley and onions, thicken with the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with the cream ; add a seasoning of salt, and, w^hen the whole is on the point of simmering, serve. Make the sauce sufficiently thick to adhere to the vegetable. J'/me.—Altogether, J hour. Average cost^ Is. Qd. a pint. Seasonable in May, June, and July. MEDiciNiiL Uses or Asparagus.—This plant not only acts as a wLolesome and nutritious vegetable, but also as a diuretic, aperient, and deobstruent. The chemical analysis of its juice discovers its composition to be a peculiar crystallizable principle, called asparagin, albumen, mannite, malic acid, and some salts. Thours says, the cellular tissue contains a substance similar to sago. The berries are capable of under- going vinous fermentation, and affording alcohol by distillation. In their unripe state • they possess the same properties as the roots, and probably in a much higher degree. ASPAKAGUS PUDDING. (A delicious Dish, to be served with the Second Course.) 1089. IxGREDiENTS.—I pint of asparagus peas, 4 eggs, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 1 tablespoonful of ver?/ finely minced ham, 1 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, milk. Mode,—Cut up the nice green tender parts of asparagus, about the size of peas; put them into a basin with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the flour, ham, butter, pepper, and salt. Mix all these ingredients well together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter; put it into a pint buttered mould, tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, place it in hoiling watery and let it boil for 2 hours; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour plain melted butter rounds but not over, the pudding. Green peas pudding may be made in exactly the same manner, substituting peas for the asparagus. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. per pint. Seasonahle in May, June, and July.