296 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. spoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste, a few slices of lean roast beef. Mode.—Put into a stewpan the butter with an onion chopped fine \. add the gravy, ale, and ^ a teaspoonful of fiour to thicken; season with pepper and salt, and stir these ingredients over the fire until the onion is a rich brown. Cut, but do not chop the meat very fine, add it to the gravy, stir till quite hot, and serve. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Be careful in not allowing the gravy to boil after the meat is added, as it would render it hard and tough. Time.—About \ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Sc?. Seasonable at any time. MIBOTOl^ OF BEEF. 637. Its'geedients.—A few slices of cold roast beef, 3 oz. of butter,^ salt and pepper to taste, 3 onions, ~2- pint of gravy. Ilode—Slice the onions and put them into a frying-pan with the cold beef and butter; place it over the fire, and keep turning and stirring the ingredients to prevent them burning. When of a pale brown, add the gravy and seasoning ; let it simmer for a few minutesj. and serve very hot. This dish is excellent and economical. Time.—5 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d, Seasonable at any time. STEWED OX-CHEEK. 638. IxGEEDiENTS.—1 check, Salt and v/ater, 4 or 5 onions, butter and Hour, 6 cloves, 3 turnips, 2 carrots, 1 bay-leaf, 1 head of eeleryj 1 bunch of savoury herbs, cayenne, black pepper and salt to taste, 1 oz. of butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls of fiour, 2 tablespoonfuis of Chili vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuis of mushroom ketchup, 2 tablespoonfuis of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuis of Harvey's sauce. 3Iode.—Have the cheek boned, and prepare it the day before it is to be eaten, by cleaning and putting it to soak all night in salt and water. The next day, wipe it dry and clean, and put it into a stew- pan. Just cover it Vvith WT^ter, skim well when it boils, and let it gently simmer till the meat is quite tender. Slice and fry 3 onions in a little butter and flour, and put them into the gravy; add 2 whole onions, each stuck with 3 cloves, 3 turnips quartered, 2 carrots sliced, a bay-leaf, 1 head of celery, a bunch of herbs, and seasoning to tasto of cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Let these stev/ till perfectly tender ; then take out the cheek, divide into pieces fit to help at table, skim and strain the gravy, and thicken li pint of it with butter and