4 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 9. In Conversation, Trifling Occurrences, such as small disappoint- ments, petty annoyances, and other every-day incidents, should never be mentioned to your friends. The extreme injudiciousness of repeating these will be at once apparent, when we reflect on the unsatisfactory discussions which they too frequently occasion, and on the load of advice which they are the cause of being tendered, and which is, too often, of a kind neither to be useful nor agreeable. Greater events, whether of joy or sorrow, should be communicated to friends; and, on such occasions, their sympathy gratifies and comforts. If the mistress be a wife, never let an account of her husband's failings pass her lips; and in cultivating the power of conversa- tion, she should keep the versified advice of Cowper continually in her memory, that it Should flow like water after summer showers, Not as if raised by mere mechanic powers." In reference to its style. Dr. Johnson, who was himself greatly disting-uished for his colloquial abilities, says that *^no style is more extensively accept- able than the narrative, because this does not carry an air of superiority over the rest of the company; and, therefore, is most likely to please them. For this purpose we should store our memory with short anecdotes and enter- taining pieces of history. Almost every one listens with eagerness to extem- porary history. Vanity often co-operates with curiosity; for he that is a hearer in one place wishes to qualify himself to be a principal speaker in some inferior company; and therefore more attention is given to narrations than anything else in conversation. It is true, indeed, that sallies of wit and quick replies are very pleasing in conversation ; but they frequently tend to raise envy in some of the company: but the narrative way neither raises this, nor any other evil passion, bvit keeps all the company nearly upon au equality, and, if judiciously managed, will at once entertain and improve them all." 10. Good Temper should be cultivated by every mistress, as upon it the welfare of the household may be said to turn; indeed, its influence can hardly be over-estimated, as it has the effect of moulding the characters of those around her, and of acting most beneficially on the happiness of the domestic circle. Every head of a household should strive to be cheerful, and should never fail to show a deep interest in all that appertains to the well- being of those who claim the protection of her roof. Gentleness, not partial and temporary, but universal and regular, should pervade her conduct; for where such a spirit is habituallj'- manifested, it not only delights her children, but makes her domestics attentive and respectful; her visitors are also pleased by it, and their happiness is increased, 11. On the Important Subject of Dress and Fashion we cannot do better than quote an opinion from the eighth volume of the Englishwoman's