783 PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. 1290, and, when tlie mixture is thorouglily and equally frozen, put it into ice-glasses. Time.—i hour to freeze the mixture. Average cosf^ Sd, to id. each. Seasonable at any time. ICED CURRANTS, for Dessert. 1558. Ii?"aKEDiENTS.—$ pint of water, the whites of 2 eggs, currants, pounded sugar. Select very fine bunches of red or white currants, and well beat the whites of the eggs. Mix these with the water ; then take the currants, a bunch at a time, and dip them in; let them drain for a minute or two, and roll them in very fine pounded sugar. Lay them to dry on paper, when the sugar will crystallize round each currant, and have a very pretty efiect. All fresh fruit may be prepared in the same manner; and a mixture of various fruits iced in this manner, and arranged on one dish, looks very well for a summer dessert. Time.—4 day to dry the fruit. Average cost, 8d. for a pint of iced currants. Seasonahle in summer. MELONS. 1559. This fruit is rarely preserved or cooked in any way, and should be sent to table on a dish garnished with leaves or flowers, as fancy dictates. A border of any other kind of small fruit, arranged round the melon, has a pretty effect, the colour of the former contrast- ing nicely with the melon. Plenty of pounded sugar should be served with it; and the fruit should be cut lengthwise, in moderate-sized slices. In America, it is frequently eaten with pepper and salt. Average cost^—English, in full season, 35. Gd. to 5s. each; when scarce, 10s. to 155.; seasonable, June to August. French, 25. to 35. 6d, each ; seasonable, June and July. Dutch, 9d. to 2s. each; seasonable, July and August. Melon.—The melon is a inosfc delicious fruit, succulent, cool, and high-flavoured. With us, it is used only at the dessert, and is generally eaten with sugar, ginger, or pepper; but, in France, it is likewise served up at dinner as a sauce for boiled meats.^ It grows wild in Tartary, and has been lately found in abundance on the sandy plains of Jeypoor. It was brought originally from Asia by the homans, and is said to have been common in England in the time o\' Edward III., though it is supposed that it was lost again, as well as the cucumber, during the wars of York and Lancaster. The best kind, called the Cantaloupe, from the name of a place near Rome where it was first cultivated in Europe, is a native of Armenia, where it grows so plentifully that a horse-load maybe bought for a crown. PSESEKVED MULBEBBIES. 1560. Ingeediei^^ts.—To 2 lbs. of fruit and 1 pint of juice allow 2| lbs. of loaf sugar. 3Iode.~Vnt some of the fruit into a preserving-pan, and simmer it gently until the juice is well drawn. Strain it through a bag, mea-