597 VEGETABLES. after the thickening is added, and serve. If it be at hand, these should be served on a silver or plated vegetable-dish. Time,—20 to 25 minutes, very gentle stewing. Average cost, in full season, 9c?. per basket. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonahle in August, September, and October; but may be had, forced, much earlier. The Tomato, on Love-apple.—This vegetable is a native of Mexico and South America, but is also found in the East Indies, where it is supposed to have been intro- duced by t :ic Spaniards. In this country it is much more cultivated than it formerly was ; and the more the community becomes acquainted with the many agreeable forma in which the fruit can be prepared, the more widely will its cultivation be extended. For Icetchup, soups, and sauces, it is equally applicable, and the unripe fruit makes one of the best pickles. TBUFFLES AU IsTATUIlEIi. ii6i. Ingeedients.—Truffles, buttered paper. 3Iode.—Select some fine truffles; cleanse them, by washing them in several waters with a brush, until not a particle of sand or grit remains on them; wrap each truffle in buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for quite an hour; take off the paper, wipe the truffles, and serve them in a hot napkin. Ti?ne.—1 hour. A verage cost,—"Not often bought in this country. Seasonahle from November to March. The Common Teueele.—This is the Tuber ciharium of science, and belongs to that nume- rous class of esculent fungi distinguished from other vegetables not only by the singularity of their forms, but by their chemical composition. Upon analysis, they are found not only to contain the usual components of the vegetable kingdom, such as carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, but like- l wise a large proportion of nitrogen; from which = they approach more nearly to the nature of ani- mal flesh. It was long ago observed by Dr. Dar- win, that all the mushrooms cooked at our tables, tkuefles. as well as those used for ketchup, possessed an . ' animal flavour; and soup enriched by mushrooms only has sometimes been supposed to contain meat. TO DBESS TBUPFLBS WITH CHAMPAGl^E. 1162. lNGEEDiENTS.—12fine black truffles, a few slices of fat bacon, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions, a bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, 1 bay-leaf, 2 cloves, 1 blade of pounded mace, 2 glasses of champagne, i pint of stock. iifoc^e.—Carefully select the truffles, reject those that have a musty I smell, and wash them well with a brush, in cold water only, until I perfectly clean. Put the bacon into a stewpan, with the truffles and ! the remaining ingredients; simmer these gently for an hour, and let 1 the whole cool in the stewpan. When to be served, rewarm them,