SAUCES; ETC. 221 LSAMINGTOH SAUCE (an Excellent Sauce for Flavouring Gravies, Hashes, Soups, &c.). {Author's Recipe.) 459. IiraREDiENTS.—Walnuts. To eacli quart of walnut-juice allow 3 quarts of vinegar, 1 pint of Indian soy, 1 oz. of cayenne, 2 oz. of shalots, f oz. of garlic, i pint of port wine. Mode.—Be very particular in choosing the walnuts as soon as they appear in the market; for they are more easily bruised before they become hard and shelled. Pound them in a mortar to a pulp, strew some salt over them, and let them remain thus for two or three days, occasionally stirring and moving them about. Press out the juice, and to each quart of walnut-liquor allow the above proportion of vinegar, soy, cayenne, shalots, garlic, and port wine. Pound each ingredient separately in a mortar, then mix them well together, and store away for use in small bottles. The corks should be well sealed. Seasonable.—This sauce should be made as soon as walnuts are obtainable, from the beginning to the middle of July. 460. Ingeedieistts.—1 pint of brandy, the rind of two small lemons, 2 oz. of loaf-sugar, J pint of water. JibfZe.—Peel the lemons rather thin, taking care to have none of the white pith. Put the rinds into a bottle with the brandy, and let them infuse for 24 hours, when they should be strained. Now boil the sugar with the water for a few minutes, skim it, and, when cold, add it to the brandy. A dessertspoonful of this will be found an excellent flavouring for boiled custards. Lemoit Kind oe Peel.—This contains an essential oil of a very high flavour and fragra,nce, and is consequently esteemed both a wholesome and agreeable stomachic. It is used, as will be seen by many recipes in this book, as an ingredient for flavouring a number of various dishes. Under the name of Cajtdied LEMON-PEEii, it is cleared of the pulp and preserved by sugar, when it becomes an excellent sweetmeat. By the ancient medical philosopher Galen, and others, it may be added, that dried lemon-peel was considered as one of the best digestives, and recommended to weak and delicate persons, lilAISOK" OF EaaS FOB- THICKEHIHG- SAUCES. 461. Ingredients.—The yolks of 3 eggs, 8 table spoonfuls of milk or cream. Mode.—Beat up the yolks of the eggs, to which add the milk, and strain the whole through a hair-sieve. When the liaison is being added to the sauce it is intended to thicken, care must be exercised to keep stirring it during the whole time, or, otherwise, the eggs will curdle. It should only just simmer, but not boil.