1017 DUTIES OF THE SICK-NURSE. 2416. All women are likely, at some period of their lives, to be called on to perform the duties of a sick-nurse, and should prepare themselves as much as possible, by observation and reading-, for the occasion when they may bo required to perform the office. The main requirements are good temper, compassion for suffering, sympath}^ with sufferers, which most women worthy of the name possess, neat-handedness, quiet manners, love of order, and clean- liness. With these qualifications there will be very little to be wished for ; the desire to relieve suffering will inspire a thousand little attentions, and surmount the disgusts which some of the offices attending the sick-room are apt to create. Where serious illness visits a household, and protracted nursing is likely to become necessary, a professional nurse will probably bo engaged,, who has been trained to its duties ; but in some families, and those not a few let us hope, the ladies of the family would oppose such an arrangement as a failure of duty on their part. There is, besides, even when a professional nurse is ultimately called in, a i)eriod of doubt and hesitation, while disease has not yet developed itself, when the patient must be attended to ; and, in these cases, some of the female servants of the establishment must give their attendance in the sick-room. There are, also, slight attacks of cold, influenza, and accidents in a thousand forms, to which all are subject, where domestic nursing becomes a necessity ; where disease, though unattended with danger,, is nevertheless accompanied by the nervous irritation incident to illness, and when all the attention of the domestic nurse becomes necessary. 2417. In the first stage of sickness, while doubt and a little perplexity hang over the household as to the nature of the sickness, there are some things about which no doubt can exist: the patient's room must be kept in a perfectly pure state, and arrangements made for proper attendance ; for the first canon of nursing, according to Florence Nightingale, its apostle, is to 'Hceep the air the patient breathes as pure as the external air, without chilling him." This can be done without any preparation v/hich might alarm the patient; with proper windows, open fireplaces, and a supjjly of fuel, the room may be a& fresh as it is outside, and kept at a temperature suitable for the patient's, state. 241S. Windows, however, must be opened from above, and not from below, and draughts avoided; cool air admitted beneath the patient's head chillsf the lower strata and the floor. The careful nurse will keep the door shut when the window is open; she will also take care that the patient is not placed between the door and the open window, nor between the open fireplace and the window. If confined to bed, she will see that the bed is placed in a thoroughly ventilated part of the room, but out of the current of air which is produced by the momentary opening of doors^ as well as out of the line of