MocEn?? nousEnoLD cookery. 130 and wlien cold, the eel should be kept in the liquor it was boiled in, but with a little more vinegar put to it. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonable from August to March. Haunts op the Eel,—These are usually in mud, among w<;eds, under roots or stumps of trees, or in holes in the banks or the bottoms of rivers. Here they often grow to ru enormous size, sometimes weighing as much as fifteen or sixteen pounds. They seldom come forth from their luding-places except in the night; and, in winter, bury themselves deep in the mud, on account of their great susceptibility of cold. EELS A LA TABTABE. 255. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of eels, 1 carrot, 1 onion, a little fiour, 1 glass of sherry; salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; bread crumbs, 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mode.—Rub the butter on the bottom of the stewpan ; cut up the carrot and onion, and stir them over the fire for 5 minutes; dredge in a little flour, add the wine and seasoning, and boil for § an hour. Skin and wash the eels, cut them into pieces, put them to the other ingredients, and simmer till tender. When they are done, take them out, let them get cold, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown. Put them on a dish, pour sauce piquante over, and serve them hot. Time.—ij hour. Average costy Is. 8c?., exclusive of the sauce piquante. Seasonable from Augnst to March. Suficie^it for 5 or 6 persons. YoKACiTY 01' THE Eel.—We find in a note upon Isaac Y/alton, by Sir John Hawkifls, that lie knew of eels, when kept in ponds, frequently destroying ducks. From a canal near his house at Twickenham he himself missed many young ducks; and on draining, in order to clean it, great numbers of large eels were caught in the mud. When some of these were opened, there were found in their stomaclis the undigested heads of tho quacking tribe v^^hich had become their yictims. EELS EH MATHXiOTE. 256. Ikgeedieitts.—5 or 6 young onions, a few mushrooms, when obtainable ; salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste; 1 laurel-leaf, i pint of port v>'ine, | pint of medium stock, No. 105; butter and flour to thicken; 2 lbs. of eels. 3Iode.—K\jih the stewpan with butter, dredge in a little flour, add the onions cut very small, slightly brown them, and put in all the other ingredients. Wash, and cut np the eels into pieces 3 inches long; put them in the stewpan, and simmer for i hour. Make round the dish, a border of croutons, or pieces of toasted bread ; arrange the eels in a pyramid in the centre, and pour over the sauce. Servo very hot. Time,—% hour. Average costy Is. 9d. for this quantity. Seasonable from August to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.