MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 338 gently till the meat is nearly done, skim off all the fat, and then add the carrots and turnips, which should previously he cut in dice and fried in a little sugar to colour them. Let the whole simmer again for 10 minutes; take out the onion and bunch of herbs, and serve. Tme.—About 3 hours to simmer. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. /Seasonable at any time. HARICOT MUTTON- (Cold Meat Cookery). 718. iNaREDiENTS.—-The remains of cold neck or loin of mutton, 2 oz. of butter, 3 onions, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, i pint of good gravy, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of port wine, 1 table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery. Mode.—Cut the cold mutton into moderate-sized chops, and take off the fat; slice the onions, and fry them with the chops, in a little butter, of a nice brown colour; stir in the flour, add the gravy, and let it stew gently nearly an hour. In the mean time boil the vegetables until nearly tender, slice them, and add them to the mutton about J hour before it is to be served. Season with pepper and salt, add the ketchup and port wine, give one boil, and serve. Time,—1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 9<?. Seasonable at any time. HASHED MUTTOlSr. 719. IiSTGEEDiENTS.—The remains of cold roast shoulder or leg of mutton, 6 whole peppers, 6 whole allspice, a faggot of savoury herbs, i head of celery, 1 onion, 2 oz. of butter, flour. Mode,—Cut the meat in nice even slices from the bones, trimming off all superfluous fat and gristle; chop the bones and fragments of the joint, put them into a stewpan with the pepper, spice, herbs, and celery; cover with water, and simmer for 1 hour. Slice and fry the onion of a nice pale-brown colour, dredge in a little flour to make it thick, and add this to the bones, &c. Stew for | hour, strain the gravy, and let it cool; then skim off every particle of fat, and put it, with the meat, into a stewpan. Flavour with ketchup, Harvey's sauce, tomato sauce, or any flavouring that may be preferred, and let the meat gradually warm through, but not boil, or it will harden. To hash meat properly, it should be laid in cold gravy, ^nd only left on the fire just long enough to warm through. Time.—l^ hour to simmer the gravy. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id, Seasonable at any time.