MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 596 THE TOMATO. Seasonahle in August, September, and October ; but may be bad, forced, mucb earlier. Tomatoes.—The Tomato is a native of tropical countries, but is now cultivated considerably both in France and England. Its skin is of a brilliant red, and its flavour, which is somewhat sour, has become of immense importance in the culinary art. It is used both fresh and preserved. When eaten fresh, it is served as an entremets; but its principal use is in s3uce and gravy; its flavour stimulates the appetite, and is almost universally approved. The Tomato is a w^holesome fruit, and digests easily. From July to September, they gather the tomatoes green in France, not breaking them away from the stalk; they are then hung, head downwards, in a dry and not too cold place and there they ripen. HOT TOMATO SAUCB, or PUilEB OS' TOMATOES. (See No. 529.) STEWED TOMATOES. I. 1159. InCxEedients.—-8 tomatoes, pepper and salt to taste, 2 oz. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 3Iode.—Slice the tomatoes into a lined saucepan ; season tbem with pepper and salt, and place small pieces of butter on them. Cover the lid down closely, and stew from 20 to 25 minutes, or until the tomatoes are perfectly tender; add the vinegar, stir two or three STEWED TOMATOES. ' -i ^ times, and serve witn any kind 01 roast meat, v/ith which they will be found a delicious accompaniment. 2Vr/?e.—20 to 25 minutes. Average cost, in full season, ^d. per basket. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from August to October; but may be had, forced, much earlier. An-alysis op the Tomato.—The fruit of the love-apple is the only part used as an esculent, and it has been found to contain a particular acid, a volatile oil, a brown, very iVagrant extracto-resinous matter, a vegeto-mineral matter, muco-saccharine, some salts, and, in all probability, an alkaloid. The whole plant has a disagreeable odour, and its juice, subjected to the action of the fire, emits a vapour so powerful as to cause vertigo and vomiting. II. 1160. Ingeedients.—8 tomatoes, about i pint of good gravy, thickening of butter and flour, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode—TldikQ out the stalks of the tomatoes; put them into a wide stewpan, pour over them the above proportion of good brown gravy, and stew gently until they are tender, occasionally carefulhj turning them, that they may be equally done. Thicken the gravy with a littlo butter and flour worked together on a plate ; let it just boil up