152 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. they have become large enough to be denominated grihe. Early in August they become fewer in numbers, but of greater size, having advanced to a weight of from six to nine pounds. This rapidity of growth appears surprising, and realizes the remark of Walton, that " the salmlet becomes a salmon in as short a time as a gosling becomes a goose." Kecent writers have, however, thrown considerable doubts on this quick growth of the ealmoDe SALMON" CUTLETS. 306. Cut the slices 1 inch thick, and season them with pepper and salt; butter a sheet of v/hite paper, lay each slice on a separate piece> with their ends twisted; broil gently over a clear fire, and servo with anchovy or caper sauce. When higher seasoning is required, add a few chopped herbs and a little spice. Time.—5 to 10 minutes. SALMOlSr A LA GEISTEVESE. 307. Ingeedients.—2 slices of salmon, 2 chopped shalots, a little parsley, a small bunch of herbs, 2 bay-leaves, 2 carrots, pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, 4 tablespoonfuls of Madeira, J pint of white stock (No. 107), thickening of butter and flour, 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, the juice of 1 lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. Mode.—Hub the bottom of a stewpan over with butter, and put in the shalots, herbs, bay-leaves, carrots, mace, and seasoning; stir them for 10 minutes over a clear fire, and add the Madeira or sherry x simmer gently for i hour, and strain through a sieve over the fish, which stew in this gravy. As soon as the fish is sufficiently cooked, take away all the liquor, except a little to keep the salmon moist, and put it into another stewpan ; add the stock, thicken with butter and flour, and put in the anchovies, lemon-juice, cayenne, and salt; lay the salmon on a hot dish, pour over it part of the sauce, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Time.—1^ hour. Average cost for this quantity, 35. 6d. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. PICKLED SALMON". 308. liYGEEDiENTS.—Salmon, f oz. of whole pepper, ^ oz. of whole allspice, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 bay-leaves, equal quantities of vinegar and the liquor in which the fish was boiled. Mode.—After the fish comes from table, lay it in a nice dish with a cover to it, as it should be excluded from the air, and take away the bone; boil the liquor and vinegar with the other ingredients for 10 minutes, and let it stand to get cold ; pour it over the salmon, and in 12 hours this will be fit for the table. Time, 10 minutes.