PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 619 Mode.—Blsinch and pound the almonds smoothly in a mortar, with a little rose- or spring-water ; stir in the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the butter, which should be warmed; add the grated lemon-peel and -juice, sweeten, and stir well until the whole is thoroughly mixed. Line some pattypans with puff-paste, put in the mixture, and bake for 20 minutes, or rather less in a quick oven. Time.—20 minutes, or rather less. Average cost^ lOd. Sufficient for about 12 cheesecakes. Seaso7iahle at any time. Almonds.—Almonds are the fruit of tlie Amygdalus com- mimisy and are cultivated throughout the whole of the south of Europe, Syria, Persia, and Northern Africa; but England is mostly supplied with those which are grown in Spain and the south of France. They are distinguished into Sweet and Bitter, the produce of different varieties. Of the sweet, there are two varieties, distinguished in commerce by the names of Jordan and Valentia almonds. The former are imported from Malaga, and are longer, narrower, more pointed, and more highly esteemed than the latter, which are imported from Valentia. Bitter almonds are principally obtained from Morocco, and are exported from Mogador. almond AND BLOSSOai. ALMOND PASTE, for Second-Course Dishes. 1220. INGREDIENTS.—1 lb. of swcot almouds, 6 bitter ones, 1 lb. of very finely sifted sugar, the whites of 2 eggs. ii!fot?e.—Blanch the almonds, and dry them thoroughly ; put them into a mortar, and pound them well, wetting them gradually with the whites of 2 eggs. "When well pounded, put them into a small preserving-pan, add the sugar, and place the pan on a small but clear fire (a hot-plate is better); keep stirring until the paste is dry, then take it out of the pan, put it between two dishes, and, when cold, make it into any shape that fancy may dictate. Time.~i hour. Average cost, 2s. for the above quantity. Sufficient for 3 small dishes of pastry. Seasonable at any time. Bitter Almonds.—The Bitter Almond is a variety of the common almond, and is injurious to animal life, on account of the great quantity of hydrocyanic acid it contains, and is consequently seldom used in domestic economy, unless it be to give flavour to confectionery; and even then it should be used with great caution. A single drop of the essential oil of bitter almonds is sufficient to destroy a bird, and four drops have caused the death of a middle-sized dog. I BAKED ALMOND PUDDING. (Very rich.) 1221. Ingeedients.—i lb. of almonds, 4 bitter ditto, 1 glass of sherry, 4 eggs, the rind and juice of f lemon, 3 oz. of butter, 1 pint of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar.