TOE DOCTOR. 1077 according to the means at Land, and the length of time that must necessarily elapse mitil he arrives. A pint, or even a quart of blood in a very strong person, may be taken away. When the patient is able to swallow, give him the No. 1 pills, and the No. 1 mixture directly. [The No. 1 pills are made as follov/s :—Mix 5 grains of calomel and the same quantity of antimonial powder with a little bread-crumb : make into two pills, the dose for a full- grown person. For the No. 1 mixture, dissolve an ounce of Epsom salts in half a pint of senna tea: take a quarter of the mixture as a dose,] Repeat these remedies if the bowels are not well opened. Keep the patient's head well raised, and cool as above. Give very low diet indeed : gruel, arrowroot, and the like. When a person is recovering, he should have blisters applied to the nape of the neck, his bowels should be kept well open, light diet given, and fatigue, worry, and excess of all kinds avoided. 2636. 2. The wealc kind.—S^jmyAoms. These attacks are more frequently pre- ceded by warning symptoms than the first kind. The face is pale, the pulse weak, and the body, especially the hands and legs, cold. After a little while, these symptoms sometimes alter to those of the first class in a mild degree.— Treatment. At first, if the pulse is very feible indeed, a little brandy-and- water or sal-volatile must be given. Mustard poultices are to be put, as before, to the soles of the feet and the insides of the thighs and legs. Warm bricks, or bottles filled with warm water, are also to be placed under the arm- pits. When the strength has returned, the body become warmer, and the pulse fuller and harder, the head should be shaved, and wet rags applied to it, as before described. Leeches should be put, as before, to the temple opposite the side paralyzed ; and the bowels should be opened as freely and as quickly as possible. Bleeding from the arm is often necessary in these cases, but a non-professional person should never have recourse to it. Blisters may be applied to the nape of the neck at once. The diet in these cases should not be so low as in the former—indeed, it is often necessary, in a day or so after one of these attacks, to give wine, strong beef-tea, &c., according to the con- dition of the patient's strength. 2637. Bidinciions hctween A]}02)lexy and Epilepsy.—1. Apoplexy mostly happens in people over thirty, whereas epilepsy generally occurs under that age; at any rate for the first time. A person who has epileptic fits over thirty, has generally suffered from them for some years. 2. Again, in apoplexy, the body is paralyzed; and, therefore, has not the convulsions • -ivhich taJce place in epilepsy. 3. The peculiar snoring will also distinguish J apoplexy from epilepsy. 2638. Distinctions hctiveen A apoplexy and, Drunlcenness.—1. The knovv-n habits of the person. 2. The fact of a person who was perfectly sober and sensible a little time before, being found in a state of insensibility. 3. The absence, in apoplexy, of the smell of driiih on applying the nose to the mouth. 4. A person in a fit of aT)oplexy cannot be roused at all; in drunken- ness he m-ostly can, to a certain extent.