57 FRUIT AND Vegetable soups. 12 white peppercorns, 1 oz. of salt, 1 blade of mace, 1 oz. butter, 4 quarts of water. 3Iode.—Cut up the veal, and put it with the bones and trimmings of poultry, and the ham, into the stewpan, which has been rubbed with the butter. Moisten with \ a pint of water, and simmer till (he gravy begins to flow. Then add the 4 quarts of water and the remainder of the ingredients ; simmer for 5 hours. After skimming and straining it carefully through a very fine hair sieve, it will be ready for use. Time.—bh hours. Average costy dd. per quart. Note.—When stronger stock is desired, double tke quantity of veal, or put in an old fowl. The liquor in which a young turkey has been boiled, is an excellent addition to all white stock or soups. BROWNING FOR STOCK. 108. Ingrediei^ts.—2 oz. of powdered sugar, and i a pint of water. 3fode.—Place the sugar in a stewpan over a slow fire until it begins to melt, keeping it stirred with a wooden spoon until it becomes black, when add the water, and let it dissolve. Cork closely, and use a few drops when required. Note.—In France, burnt onions are made use of for the purpose of browning. As a general rule, the process of browning is to be discouraged, as apt to impart a slightly unpleasant flavour to the stock, and, consequently, all soups made from it. TO CLARIFY STOCK. 109. Ingeedients.—The whites of 2 eggs, I pint of water, 2 quarts of stock. 3Iode.—Supposing that by some accident the soup is not quite clear, and that its quantity is 2 quarts, take the whites of 2 eggs, carefully {-separated from their yolks, whisk them well together with the v/ater, and add gradually the 2 quarts of boiling stock, still whisking. Place the soup on the fire, and when boiling and well skimmed, whisk the eggs with it till nearly boiling again ; then draw it from the fire, and ltt.it settle, until the whites of the eggs become separated. Pass liirough a fine cloth, and the soup should be clear. Kate.—The rule is, that all clear soups should be of a light straw-colour, and should not savour too strongly of the meat; and that all white or brown thick soups should have no more consistencj' than will enable them to adhere slightly to the s^DOon when hot. All purees should be somevrhat thicker, ALMOND SOUP. 110. Tngeedients.—4 lbs. of lean beef or veal, l a scrag of