MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 890 3Iode,—Rub some of the sugar, in lumps, on 2 of the lemons until they have imbibed all the oil from them, and put it vath the remainder of the sugar into a jug ; add the lemon-juice (but no pips), and pour over the whole a quart of boiling water. When the sugar is dissolved, strain the lemonade through a fine sieve or piece of muslin, and, v/hen cool, it will be ready for use. The lemonade will be much improved by having the white of an egg beaten up in it; a little sherry mixed with it, also, makes this beverage much nicer. Average cost, Qd. per quart. Lemonade.—*' There is a current opinion among women," says Brillat Savarin, "which every year causes the death of many young women,—that acids, especially vinegar, are preventives of obesity. Beyoud all doubt, acids have the effect of destroying obesity; but they also destroy health and freshness. Lemonade is, of all acids, the most harmless; but few stomachs can resist it long, i knew, in 1776, at Dijon, a young lady of great beauty, to whom I was attached by bonds of friendship, great, almost, as those of love. One day, when she had for some time gradually grown pale and thin (previously she had a slight embonpoint), she told me in confidence, that, as her young friends had ridiculed her for being fat, she had, to counteract the tendency, been in the habit every day of drinliing a large glass of vinaitjre. She died at eighteen years of age, from the efiect of these potions." TO MAKE I^-EGUS. 1835. Ingeedients.—To every pint of port wine allow 1 quart of boiling water, i lb. of sugar, 1 lemon, grated nutmeg to taste. 3Iode,—As this beverage is more usually drunk at children's parties than at any other, the wine need not be very old or expensive for the purpose, a new fruity wine answering very well for it. Put the wine into a jug, rub some lumps of sugar (equal to I lb.) on the lemon-rind until all the yellow part of the skin is absorbed, then squeeze the juice, and strain it. Add the sugar and lemon-juice to the port wine, with the grated nutmeg; pour over it the boiling water, cover the jug, and, when the beverage has cooled a little, it wdll be fit for use. Negus may also be made of sherry, or any other sweet white wine, but is more usually made of port than of any other beverage. Sufficient.—Allow 1 pint of wine, with the other ingredients in proportion, for a party of 9 or 10 children. A PLEASANT DBIK^K FOB WAEM WEATHEK. 1836. Ingeedients.—To every ij pint of good ale allow 1 bottle of ginger beer. Mode.—Foi this beverage the ginger beer must be in an effervescing state, and the beer not in the least turned or sour. Mix them toge- ther, and drink immediately. The draught is refreshing and whole- some, as the ginger corrects the action of the beer. It does not deteriorate by standing a little, but, of course, is better when taken fresh.