MOUERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 642 Jfoife.—Flavour the milk by infusing in it a little lemon-rind or (innamon; whisk the eggs, stir the flour gradually to these, and pour over them the milk, and stir the mixture well. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it; put in the custard, and tie a floured cloth over ; plunge it into boiling water, and turn it about for a few minutes, to prevent the flour from settling in one part. Boil it slowly for i hour ; turn it out of the basin, and serve. The pudding may be garnished with red-currant jelly, and sweet sauce may be sent to table with it. Time,—\ hour. Average cost, Ich Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. DAMS03Sr TART. 1270. IiTGEEDiENTS.—\\ pint of damsons, J lb. of moist sugar, \ lb. of short or pufl* crust. Mode,—Put the damsons, with the sugar between them, into a deep pie-dish, in the midst of v/hich, place a small cup or jar turned upside down; pile the fruit high in the middle, line the edges of the dish with short or puff crust, whichever may be preferred; put on the cover, ornament the edges, and bake from i to f hour in a good oven. If puff-crust is used, about 10 minutes before the pie is done, take it out of the oven, brush it over with the white of an egg beaten to a froth with the blade of a knife; strew some sifted sugar over, and a few drops of water, and put the tart back to finish baking: with short crust, a little plain sifted sugar, sprinkled over, is all that will be required. Time.—\ to f hour. Average cost, 10c?. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle in September and October. Damsons—Whether for jam, jelly, pie, pudding, water, ice, wine, dried fruit or preserved, the damson, or damascene (for it was originally brought from Damascus, whence its name), is in- valuable. It combines sugary and acid qualities in happy pro- portions, when full ripe. It is a fruit easily cultivated; and, if budded nine inches from the ground on vigorous stocks, it will grow several feet high in the first year, and make fine standards the year following. Amongst the list of the best sorts of baking plums, the damson stands first, not only on account of the abundance of its juice, but also on account of its soon softening. Because of the roughness of its flavour, it requires a large rAirsoirs. quantity of sugar. DAMSOW PUDDma. 1271. Ingeedients.—If pint of damsons, \ lb. of moist sugar, fib. of suet or butter crust. Make a suet crust with f lb. of flour by recipe No. 1215;