MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 62 Beasonalle at any time. Sufficient for 4 persons. Note.—This is a cheap recipe, and will be found useful where extreme economy is an object. Beead.—-The origin of bread is involved in the obscurity of distant ages. The Greeks attributed its invention to Pan; but before they, themselves, had an existence, it was, o doubt, in use among the primitive nations of mankind. The Chaldeans and the Egyptia is were acquainted with it, and Sarah, the companion of Abraham, mixed flour and water together, kneaded it, and covered it with ashes on the hearth. The Scriptures inform us that leavened bread was known to the Israelites, but it is not known when the art of fermenting it was discovered. It is said that the Komaus learnt it during their wars with Perseus, king of Macedon, and that it was introduced to the " imperial city" abo t 200 years before the birth of Christ. Wi h them it no doubt found its way into Britain; but after their departure from the island, it probably ceased to be used. "We know that King Alfred allowed the unfermented cakes to burn in the neatherd's cottage; and that, even in the sixteenth century, unfermented cakes, kneaded by the women, were the only kind of bread known to the inhabitants of Norway and Sweden. The Itahans of this day consume the greater portion of their flour in the form of polenta, or soft pudding, vermicelli, and macaroni; and, iu the remoter districts of Scotland, much Q-UERir, OE GKiifDiNG-MiLL. unfermented bread is still used. We give a cut of the quern grinding-mill, which, towards the end of the last century, was in use in that country, and which is thus described by Dr. Johnson in his ** Journey to the Hebrides:"—"It consists of two stones about a foot and a half in diameter; the lower is a Httle convex, to which the concavity of the upper must be fitted. In the middle of the upper stone is a round hole, and on one side is a long handle. The grinder sheds the corn gradually into the hole with one hand, and works the handle round with the other. The corn slides down the convexity of the lower stone, and, by the motion of the upper, is ground in its passage." Such a primitive piece of machinery, it may safely be said, has entirely disappeared from this country.—In other parts of this work, we shall have opportunities of speaking of bread and bread-making, which, from its great and general use in the nourishment of mankind, has emphatically been called the "stajff of life." The necessity, therefore, of having it both pure and good is of the first importance. CABBAGE SOUP. 118. Ingeedients.—1 large cabbage, 3 carrots, 2 onions, 4 or 5 slices of lean bacon, salt and pepper to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock 1^0. 105. 3ibc?e.—Scald the cabbage, cut it up and drain it. Line the stew- pan with the bacon, put in the cabbage, carrots, and onions ; moisten with skimmings from the stock, and simmer very gently, till the cabbage is tender; add the stock, stew softly for half an hour, and carefully skim off every particle of fat. Season and serve. TYme.—li hour. Average cost^ \s, per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Cabbage.—It is remarkable, that although there is no country iu the world now more plentifully suppHed with fruits and vegetables than Great Britain, yet the greater number of these had no existence in it before the time of Henry VIIl. Anderson,