PORK. 375 POBK CHEESE (an Excellent Breakfast Dish). 799. Ikgeedients.—2 lbs. of cold roast pork, pepper and salt to taste, 1 dessertspoonful of minced parsley, 4 leaves of sage, a very small buncli of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, a little nutmeg, J teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel; good strong gravy, sufficient to fill the mould. Mode,—Cut, but do not chop, the pork into fine pieces, and allow I lb. of fat to each pound of lean. Season with pepper and salt; pound well the spices, and chop finely the parsley, sage, herbs, and lemon- peel, and mix the whole nicely together. Put it into a mould, fill up with good strong well-flavoured gravy, and bake rather more than one hour. When cold, turn it out of the mould. Time,—Rather more than 1 hour. Seasonable from October to March. BOAST LEG OF POBK. 800. Ikgeedieistts.—Leg of pork, a little oil for stuffing. {See Eecipe No. 504.) Mode.—Choose a small leg of pork, and score the skin across in narrow strips, about 5 inch apart. Cut a slit in the knuckle, loosen the skin, and fill it with a sage~and-onion stuffing, made by Recipe No. 5.04. Brush the joint over with a little salad-oil (this makes the crackling crisper, and a better colour), and put it ^^.c.™ ^ ^ ' i' EOASX LEG OP POEK. down to a bright, clear fire, not too near, as that would cause the skin to blister. Baste it well, and serve with a little gravy made in the dripping-pan, and do not omit to send to table with it a tureen of well-made apple-sauce. {See No. 363. Time.—A leg of pork weighing 8 lbs,, about 3 hours. Average cost, 9d. per lb. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from September to March. English Mode op Hunting, and Indian Pig-sticking.—The hunting of the wild Iboar has been in all times, and in all countries, a pastime of the highest interest and excitement, and from the age of Nimrod, has only been considered second to the more dangerous sport of lion-hunting. The buried treasures of Nineveh, restored to us bj Mr. Layard, show us, on their sculptured annals, the kings of Assyria in their royal pastime of boar-hunting. That the G-reeks were passionately attached to this sport, we know both from history and the romantic fables of the poets. Marc Antony, at one of his breakfasts with Cleopatra, had eight wild boars roasted whole; and though the Komans do not appear to have been addicted to hunting, wild-boar fights formed part of their gladiatorial shows in the amphitheatre. In France, Germany, and Britain, from the earhest time, the boar-hunt formed one of the most exciting of sports ; but it was only in this countiy that the sport was conducted without dogs,—a real hand-to-hand