378 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. TO CUBE BACOlSr OT THE WILTSHIRE WAT. 805. Ingeedients—14 lb. of coarse sugar, li lb. of bay-salt, 6 oz. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt. Jfo(/e.—Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for 24 hours; then pound and mix the above ingredients well together and rub it well into the meat, which should be turned every day for a month ; then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it for 10 days. Time.—To remain in the picMe 1 month, to be smoked 10 days. Sufficient.—The above quantity of salt for 1 pig. How Pigs WEEE toemeelt Pastueed and Fed.—Though, unquestionably far greater numbers of swine are now kept in England than formerly, every peasant having one or more of that useful animal, in feudal times immense droves of pigs were kept by the franklings and barons; in those days the swine-herds being a regular part of the domestic service of every feudal household, their duty consisted in daily driving the herd of swine from the castle-yard, or outlying farm, to the nearest woods, chase, or forest, where the frankling or vavasour had, either by right or grant, what was called free tvarren, or the hberty to feed his hogs off the acorns, beech, and chestnuts that lay in such abundance on the earth, and far exceeded the power of the royal or privileged game to consume. Indeed, it was the hcense granted the nobles of free warren, espe- cially for their swine, that kept up the iniquitous forest laws to so late a date, and covered so large a portion of the land with such immense tracts of wood and brake, to the injury of agriculture and the misery of the people. Som.e idea of the extent to which swine were grazed in the feudal times, may be formed by observing the number of pigs still fed in Epping Forest, the Forest of Dean, and the ISTew Forest, in Hamp- shire, where, for several months of the year, the beech-nuts and acorns yield them so plentiful a diet. In Germany, where the chestnut is so largely cultivated, the amount of food shed every autumn is enormous; and consequently the pig, both wild and domestic, has, for a considerable portion of the year, an unfaihng supply of admirable nourish- ment. Impressed with the value of this fruit for the food of pigs, the Prince Consort has, with great judgment, of late encouraged the collection of chestnuts in Windsor Park, and by giving a small reward to old people and children for every bushel collected, has not only found an occupation for many of the unemployed poor, but, by providing a gratuitous food for their pig, encouraged a feeling of providence and economy. POB CUKOTG- BACOK, AISTD KEEPIIMG IT FREE FBOM BUST (Cobbett's Recipe). 806. The two Sides that eemain, and which are called flitcheS;, are to be cured for bacon. They are first rubbed with salt on their insides, or flesh sides, then placed one on the other, the flesh sides uppermost, in a salting- trough which has a gutter round its edges to drain away the brine; for, to have sweet and fine bacon, the flitches must not be sojjping in brine, v/hicli gives it the sort of vile taste that barrel and sea pork have. Every one knows how difierent is the taste of fresh dry salt from that of salt in a dissolved state ; therefore change the salt often,—once in 4 or 5 days ; let it melt and sink in, but not lie too long ; twice change the flitches, put that at bottom which was first on the top : this mode will cost you a great deal more in salt than the sopping mode, but without it your bacon will not be so sweet and fine, nor keep so well. As for the time required in making your flitches sufficiently salt, it depends on circumstances. It takes a longer time for a thick than a thin flitch, and longer in dry than in damp weather, or in a dry than in a damp place ; but for the flitches of a hog of flve score, in weather not very dry or damp, about 6 weeks may do ; and as yours is to be fat, which receives little