807 MILK, BUTTEE, CHEESE, A^•D EGGS. favourite food in Britain. Laete et carnc vivunt," says Caesar, in his Com- mentaries ; the English of which is, " the inhabitants subsist upon flesh and milk." The breed of the cow has received great improvement in modern times, as regards the quantity and quality of the milk which she affords ; the fonn of milch-cows, their mode of nourishment, and progress, are also manifest in the management of the dairy. 1612. Although milk in its natural state be a fluid, yet, considered as an ali- ment, it is both solid and fluid : for no sooner does it enter the stomach, than it is coagulated by the gastric juice, and separated into cm^d and whey, the first of these being extremely nutritive. 1613. Milk of the Incman siilject is much thinner than cow's m.ilk; Ass's milk comes the nearest to human milk of any other ; Goafs milk is something thicker and richer than cow's milk ; Eice's milk has the appearance of cow's milk, and affords a larger quantity of cream ; J/are'^ m?7/j contains more sugar than that of the ewe ; Camel's milk is used only in Africa; Buffalo's milk is employed in India. 1614. From no other substance, solid or fluid, can so great a number of distinct kinds of aliment be prepared as from milk ; some forming food, others drink ; some of them delicious, and deserving the name of luxm-ies ; all of them v/hole- some, and some medicinal : indeed, the variety of ahments that seems capable of being produced from milk, appears to be quite endless. In every age this must have been a subject for experiment, and every nation has added to the number by the invention of some peculiarity of its own. B U T T E K. 1615. Becoian, in his ^'History of Inventions," states that butter was not used either by the Greeks or Eomans in cooking, nor was it brought upon their tables at certain meals, as is the custom at present. In England it has been made from time immemorial, though the art of making cheese is said not to have been known to the ancient Britons, and to have been learned from their conquerors. 1616. The taste of butter is peculiar, and very unlike any other fatty sub- stance. It is extremely agreeable when of the best quality ; but its flavour depends much upon the food given to the cows : to be good, it should not adhere to the knife. 1617- Butter, with regard to its dietetic properties, maybe regarded nearly in the light of vegetable oils and animal fats ; but it becomes sooner rancid than most other fat oils. When fresh, it cannot but be considered as very whole-