MODERN HOTJSEHOLD COOKERY. 384 Time.—To be pickled 1 montli; to be smoked 1 montL • Sufficient for 2 hams of 18 lbs. eacb. Seasonable from October to March. The Peice of a Sow in Apbica.—In one of the native states of Africa, a pig one day stole a piece of food from a child a3 it was in the act of conveying the morsel to its mouth ; upon Avhieh the robbed child cried so loud that the mother rushed out of her hovel to ascertain the cause ; and seeing the purloining pig make off munching his booty, the woman in her heat struck the grunter so smart a blow, that the surly rascal took it into liis head to go home very much indisposed, and after a certain time resolved to die,—a resolution that he accordingly put into practice ; upon v\^hich the owner instituted judicial proceedings before the Star Chamber court of his tribe, against the husband and family of the woman whose rash act had led to such results; and as the pig happened to be a soiv, in the very flower of her age, the prospective loss to the owner in unnumbered i;eems of pigs, with the expenses attending so high a tribunal, swelled the damages and ■costs to such a sum, that it was found impossible to pay them. And ag, in the barbarous justice existing among these rude people, every member of a family is equally liable as the individual who committed the -wrong, the father, mother, children, relatives,—an entire community, to the number of fhirty-two souls, were sold as slaves, and a fearful sum of human misery perpetrated, to pay the value of a thieving old sow. TO SALT TWO HAMS, about 12 or 15 lbs. each. 817. Ii^GEEDiENTS.—2 Ibs. of troacle, J lb. of saltpetre, 1 lb. of bay-salt, 2 pounds of common salt. Ifode.—Two days before they are put into pickle, rub the hams well with salt, to draw away all slime and blood. Throw what comes from them away, and then rub them with treacle, saltpetre, and salt. Lay them in a deep pan, and let them remain one day; boil the above proportion of treacle, saltpetre, bay-salt, and common salt for | hour, and pour this pickle boiling* hot over the hams: there should be sufficient of it to cover them. For a day or two rub them well with it; afterwards they will only require turning. They ought to remain in this pickle for 3 weeks or a month, and then be sent to be smoked, which will take nearly or quite a month to do. An ox-tongue pickled in this way is most excellent, to be eaten either green or smoked. Time.—To remain in the pickle 3 weeks or a month; to be smoked about a month. Seasonable from October to March. TO CUBE SWEET HAMS IN THE WESTMOBELAND WAY. 818. Ingeedients.—3 lbs. of common salt, 3 lbs. of coarse sugar, 1 lb. of bay-salt, 3 quarts of strong beer. Mode,—Before the hams are put into pickle, rub them the preceding day well with salt, and drain the brine well from them. Put the above ingredients into a saucepan, and boil for J hour; pour over the hams, and let them remain a month in the pickle. Eub and turn them every day, but do not take them out of the piclding-pan; and have them smoked for a month. Time.—lio be pickled 1 month ; to be smoked 1 month. Seasonable from October to March. •