MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 230 Seasonable.—This should be made in September, or at the beginning of October. Note.—If the bottles in which it is stored away are not perfectly dry, as, also the mushroom powder, it will keep good but a very short time. PICKLED MUSHROOMS. 478. Ikgeebieis'TS.—Sufficient vinegar to cover the mushrooms; to each quart of mushrooms, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 oz. of ground pepper, salt to taste. Mode.—Choose some nice young button mushrooms for pickling, and rub olf the skin with a piece of flannel and salt, and cut off the stalks ; if very large, take out the red inside, and reject the black ones, as they are too old. Put them in a stewpan, sprinkle salt over them, with pounded mace and pepper in the above proportion ; shake them well over a clear fire until the liquor flows, and keep them there until it is all dried up again; then add as much vinegar as will cover them; just let it simmer for 1 minute, and store it away in stone jars for use. When cold, tie down with bladder and keep in a dry place : •they will remain good for a length of time, and are generally con- sidered delicious. Seasonable.—Make this the same time as ketchup, from the begin- ning of September to the middle of October. IsTatuiit! of the Mushroom.—Locality has evidently a considerable influence on the nature of the juices of the mushroom; for it has been discovered, after fatal experience, that some species, which are perfectly harmless when raised in open meadows and pasture- lands, become virulently poisonous when they happen to grow in contact with stagnant water or putrescent animal and vegetable substances. What the precise nature of the poison in fungi may be, has not been accurately ascertained. A VEE-Y" EIOH AITD GOOD MUSHHOOM SAUCE, to serve with Fov/ls or Rabbits. 479. Ingeediekts.—1 pint of mushroom-buttons, salt to taste, a little grated nutmeg, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 pint of cream, 2 oz. of butter, flour to thicken. Mode.—Uuh the buttons with a piece of flannel and salt, to take off the skin; cut ofl" the stalks, and put them in a stewpan with the above ingredients, previously kneading together the butter and flour ; boil the whole for about ten minutes, stirring all the time. Pour some of the sauce over the fowls, and the remainder serve in a tureen. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, 2s. Sufficient to serve with a pair of fowls. Seasonable from August to October.