MODERN HOUSEHOLD -COOKERY, emperor Charles VI. and King Philip of Spain both laid claim to the order. The former, however, on leaving Spain, which he could not maintain by force of arms, took with him, to Vienna, tb.3 archives of the order, the inauguration of which he solemnized there in 1713, with great magnificence; but Philip V. of Spain declared himself G-rand Master, and formally protested, at the congress of Cambrai (1721),against the pretensions of the emperor. The dispute, though subsequently settled by the intercession of France, England, and Holland, vf-ds frequently renewed, until the order was tacitly introduced into both countries, and it now passes by the respective names of the Spanish or Austrian " Order of the Golden Fleece," according to the country where it is issued. AI^~ SXOSLLSITT WAY TO COOK A BBSAST OF MXJTTOI3". 709. Ingrediei^ts.—Breast of mutton, 2 onions, salt and pepper to taste, flour, a bunch of savoury herbs, green peas. Mode,—Cut the mutton into pieces about 2 inches square, and let it be tolerably lean ; put it into a stewpan, with a little fat or butter, and fry it of a nice brown; then dredge in a little flour, slice the onions, and put it with the herbs in the stewpan ; pour in sufficient watery^^6^ to coyer the meat, and simmer the whole gently until the mutton is tender. Take out the meat, strain, and skim off all the fat from the gf^vy, and put both the meat and gravy back into the stewpan ; add about a quart of young green peas, and let them boil gently until done. 2 or 3 slices of bacon added and stewed with the mutton give additional flavour ; and, to insure the peas being a beau- tiful green colour, they may be boiled in water separately, and added to the stew at the moment of serving. 2j hours. Average cost, Q>d. per lb. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from June to August. Names of Animals Saxon, and their Flesh Fouman.—The names of all our domestic animals are of Saxon origin ; but it is curious to observe that Norman names have been given to the different sorts of flesh which these animals yield. How beauti- fully this illustrates the relative position of Saxon and 'Norman after the Conquest. The Saxon hind had the charge of tending and feeding the domestic animals, but only that they might appear on the table of his Norman lord. Thus ' ox,' ' steer/ * cow,' are Saxon, but 'beef is Norman; 'calf is Saxon, but 'veal' Norman; 'sheep' is Saxon, but 'mutton* Norman; so it is severally with 'deer' and 'venison,* 'swine' and 'pork,' 'fowl' and 'pullet.' 'Bacon/ the only flesh which, perhaps, €ver came within his reach, is the single exception. BEOILiOD MUTTOjKT A^T> TOMATO SAUCE (Cold Meat Cookery). 710. Ingredients.—A few slices of cold mutton, tomato sauce, No. 529. Mode.—Cut some nice slices from a cold leg or shoulder of mutton; season them with pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire. Make some tomato sauce by recipe 'No. 529, pour it over the mutton, and serve. This makes an excellent dish^ and must be served very hot. Ti77ie.—About 5 minutes to broil the mutton.