450 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. day they are killed ; and if the weather permits, they should hang a day or two. Make a stuffing of sage and onion sufficient for one duck, and leave the other unseasoned, as the flavour is not liked by every- body. Put them down to a brisk clear fire, and keep them well basted the whole of the time they are cooking. A few minutes before serving, dredge them lightly v/ith flour, to make them froth and look plump; and when the steam draws tov/ards the fire, send them to table hot and quickly, with a good brown gravy poured round, but not over the ducks, and a little of the same in a tureen., "When in season, green peas should invariably accompany this dish. Twne.—Fall-grown ducks from | to 1 hour; ducklings from 25 to 35 minutes. Average costy from 2s. Zd, to 25. 6d. each. Sufficient.—A. couple of ducks for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.—Ducklings from April to August; ducks from November to February. J>J'ote.—Ducklings are trussed and roasted in the same manner, and served with the same sauces and accompaniments. When in season, serve apple sauce. The Eouen- Buck.—Tlae Eouen, or Elione duck, is a large and handsome variety, of, Trench extraction. The plumage of the Rouen duck is somewhat sombre; its flesh is also much darker, and, though of highe^^ flavour, not near so delicate as that of our own Aylesbury. It is with this latter breed that the Rouen duck is generally mated; and the result is said to be in- crease of size and strength. In Xor- raandy and Brittany these ducks, as v/ell as other_ sorts, greatly abound; and the " duck-Hver ^a^es " are there almosf: as popular as the pate defoie gras of Stras- burg. In order to bring the Jivprx of the wretched duck to the fashion: bleand unnatural size, the same diabolical cruelty is resorted to as in the case of the Stras- burg goose. The poor birds are nailed by the feet to a board placed close to a EOUE^r BUCKS. fire, and, in that position, plentifully sup« plied with food and water. In a few days, the carcase is reduced to a mere shadow, while the liver has grown monstrously. We would rather abstain from the acquaintance of a man who ate pate de foie graSf knov/iug its component parts. Duck's EGGS.-^The ancient notion that ducks whose beaks have a tendency to curve ■upwards, are better layers than those whose beaks do not thus point, is, we need ;j hardly say, simply absurd: all ducks are good layers, if they are carefuUy fed and ;j tended. Ducks generally lay at night, or early in the morning. While they are in ' perfect health, they wiU do this ; and one of the surest signs of indisposition, among birds of this class, is irregularity in laying. The eggs laid will approach nearly the colour of the layci',—light-coloured ducks laying white eggs, and brown ducks greenish-blue egga; dark-coloured birds laying the largest eggs. One time of day the notion was prevalent .1 that a duck would hatch no other eggs than her own; and although this is not true, it will be, nevertheless, as well to match the duck's own eggs as closely as possible; for we , have known instances wherein the duck has turned out of the nest and destroyed eggs differing from her own in size and colour. DucKs.--Th© Mallard, or Wild Duck, from which is derived the domestic species, i*