BEVERAGES, 891 FOR A SUMMER DRAUGHT. 1837. Ingredients.—The juice of 1 lemon, a tumbler-ful of cold water, pounded sugar to taste, i small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 3fode.—Squeeze the juice from the lemon; strain, and add it to the water, with sufScient pounded sugar to sweeten the whole nicely. When well mixed, put in the soda, stir well, and drink while the mixture is in an effervescing state. TO MULL WINE. 1838. Ingeedients.—To every pint of wine allow 1 large cupful of water, sugar and spice to taste. Mode.—In making preparations like the above, it is very dilficult to give the exact proportions of ingredients like sugar and spice, as what quantity might suit one person would be to another quite distasteful. Boil the spice in the water until the flavour is extracted, then add the wine and sugar, and bring the whole to the boiling-point, when serve with strips of crisp dry toast, or with biscuits. The spices usually used for mulled wine are cloves, grated nutmeg, and cin- namon or mace. Any kind of wine may be mulled, but port and claret are those usually selected for the purpose; and the latter requires a very large proportion of sugar. The vessel that the wine is boiled in must be delicately clean, and should be kept exclusively for the purpose. Small tin warmers may be purchased for a trifle, which are more suitable than saucepans, as, if the latter are not scrupulously clean, they will spoil the wine, by imparting to it a very disagreeable flavour. These warmers should be used for no other purposes. TO MAKE HOT PUHCH, 1839. Ingeedients.—i pint of rum, I pint of brandy, ^ib. of sugar, 1 large lemon, 4 teaspoonful of nutmeg, 1 pint of boiling water. Mode,—Rub the sugar over the lemon until it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skin, then put the sugar into a punchbowl; add the lemon-juice (free from pips), and mix these two ingredients well together. Pour over them the boiling water, stir well together, add the rum, brandy, and nutmeg ; mix thoroughly, and the punch will be ready to serve. It is very im- puiccn-Bowti and ladle. portant in making good punch that all the ingredients are thoroughly