635 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 3£ode.—Make the milk boiling, pour it on to the bread crumbs, and let them soak for about i hour. Beat the eggs, mix these with the bread crumbs, add the remaining ingredients, and stir well until all is thoroughly mixed. Butter some small cups ; rather more than half fill them with th^ mixture, and bake in a moderate oven from 20 minutes to ^ hour, and serve with sweet sauce. A few currants may be added to these puddings : about 3 oz. will be found sufEcient for the above quantity. Time.—20 minutes to ^ hour. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient for 7 or 8 small puddings. Seasonable at any time. ABKED BKEAD-AND-BTITTEIl PUDDING. 1255. Ingeedients.—9 thin slices of bread and butter, 1^ pint of milk, 4 eggs, sugar to taste, 5 lb. of currants, flavouring of vanilla, grated lemon-peel or nutmeg. Ilode.—Cut 9 slices of bread and butter not very thick, and put them into a pie-dish, with currants between each layer and on the top. Sweeten and flavour the milk, either by infusing a little lemon- peel in it, or by adding a few drops of essence of vanilla ; well whisk the eggs, and stir these to the milk. Strain this over the bread and butter, and bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour, or rather longer. This pudding may be very much enriched by adding cream, candied peel, or more eggs than stated above. It should not be turned out, but sent to table in the pie-dish, and is better for being made about 2 hours before it is baked. Time,—1 hour, or rather longer. Average cost, dd. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. Butter.—Butter is indispensable in almost all culinary preparations. Good fresh butter, used in moderation, is easily digested; it is softening, nutritious, and fattening, and is far more easily digested than any other of the oleaginous substances sometimes used in its place. CABINEIT or CHANCBLLOB'S PUDDING. 1256. Ingeedients.—oz. of candied peel, 4 oz. of currants, 4 dozen sultanas, a few slices of Savoy cake, sponge cake, a French I roll, 4 eggs, 1 pint of milk, grated lemon-rind, 5 nutmeg, 3 table- I spoonfuls of sugar. I 3fode.—Melt some butter to a paste, and with it, well grease the !mould or basin in which the pudding is to be boiled, taking care that it is buttered in every part. Cut the peel into thin slices, and place