803 PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. otherwise, according' to the season. If the party be small, the wine may be placed only at the top of the table, near the host. DISH OF NUTS. 1599. These are merely arranged piled high in the centre of the dish, as shown in the engraving", with or v/ithout leaves round the edge. Filberts should always be served with the outer skin or husk on them ; and walnuts should be w^ell wiped with a damp cloth, and then with a dry one, to remove the unpleasant sticky feeling the shells frequently have. Seasonahle.—Filberts from September to March, good ; may be had after that time, but are generally shrivelled and dry. Walnuts from September to January. Hazel Kut and Filbekt.—The common Ilazcl is the wild, and the Filbert the culti- vated state of the same tree. The hazel is tmmd wild, not only in forests and hedges, in dingles and rftviues, but occurs in extensive tracts in the more northern and mountainous parts of the country. It was formerly one of the most abundant of those trees which are indigenous in this island. It is seldom cultivated as a fruit-tree, though perhaps its nuts are suj)erior in flavour to the others. The Spanish nuts imported are a superior kind, but they are somewhat oily and rather indigestible. Filberts, both the re^ and the white, and the cob-nut, are supposed to be merely varieties of the common hazel, which have been produced, partly by the superiority of soil and climate, and partly by culture. They were originally brought out of Greece to Italy, whence they have found their way to Holland, and from that country to England. It is supposed that, within a few miles of Maidstone, in Kent, there are more filberts grown than in all England besides ; and it is from that place that the London market is supplied. The filbert is longer than the common nut, though of the same thickness, and has a larger kernel. The cob-nut is a still larger variety, and is roundish. Filberts are more esteemed at the dessert than common nuts, and are generally eaten with salt. They are very free from oil, and disagree with few persons. Walnuts.—The Walnut is a native of Persia, the Caucasxis, and China, but was introduced to this kingdom from France. The ripe kernel is brought to the dessert on account of its agreeable flavour ; and the fruit is also much used in the green state, before the stone hardens, as a pickle. In Spain, grated walnuts are employed in tarts and other dishes. The walnut abounds in oil, which is expressed, and which, being of a highly drying nature, and very limpid, is much employed for delicate painting. This, on the continent, is sometimes used as a substitute for olive-oil in cooking, but is very apt to turn rancid. It is also manufactiu'ed into a kind of soap. The marc, or refuse matter after the oil is extracted, proves very nutritious for poultry or other domestic animals, In Switzerland, this is eaten by poor people under the name of pain amer, BOX OF FKENCH PLUMS. 1600. If the box which contains them is exceedingly ornamental, it may be placed on the table; if small, on a glass dish ; if large, without one. French plums may also be arranged on a glass plate, and gar- nished with bright-coloured sweetmeats, which make a very good effect. All fancy boxes of preserved and crystallized fruit may be put on the table or not, at pleasure. These little matters of detail must, of course, be left to individual taste. Seasonahle,—May be purchased all the year; but are in greater perfection in the winter, and are more suitable for that season, as fresh fruit cannot be obtained. 3 F 2