BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 835 1691. Yeast from home-brewed beer is generally i)referrecl to any other: it is very bitter, and, on that account, should be well washed, and put away until the thick mass settles. If it still continues bitter, the process should be repeated ; and, before being* used, all the water floating at the top must be poured off. German yeast is now very much used, and should be moistened, and thoroughly mixed with the mUk or water with which the bread is to be made. 1692. The following observations are extracted from a valuable work oa Bread-making,* and will be found very useful to our readers :— l693« The first thing required for making wholesome bread is the utmost cleanliness; the next is the soundness and sweetness of all the ingredients used for it; and, in addition to these, there must be attention and care through the whole process. 1694. An almost certain v/ay of spoiling dough is to leave it half-made, and to allow it to become cold before it is finished. The other most common causes of failure are using yeast which is no longer svv-eet, or which has beea frozen, or has had hot liquid poured over it. 1695. Too small a proportion of yeast, or insufficient time allowed for the dough to rise, will cause the bread to be heavy. 1696. Heavy bread will also most likely be the result of making the dough very hr^rd, and letting it become quite cold, particularly in winter. 1697. If either the sponge or the dough be permitted to overwork itself, that is to say, if the mixing and kneading be neglected when it has reached the proper point for either, sour bread will jprobably be the consequence in wai-m weather, and bad bread in any. The goodness will also be endangered by placing it so near a fire as to make any part of it hot, instead of main- taining the gentle and equal degree of heat required for its due fermentation, 1698. Milk or Butter.—Milk which is not perfectly sweet will not only injure the flavour of the bread, but, in sultry weather, will often cause it to be 'quite uneatable; yet either of them, if fresh and good, will materially improve its quality. 1699. To keep bread sweet and fresh, as soon as it is cold it should be put into a clean earthen pan, with a cover to it: this pan should be placed at a little distance from the ground, to allow a current of air to pass underneath. Some persons prefer keeping bread on clean wooden shelves, without being covered, that the crust may not soften. Stale bread may be fi'eshened by v/arming it through in a gentle oven. Stale pastry, cakes, &c., may also be improved by this method. * " The English Bread-Book." By Eliza Acton. Loudon: Longmau, 3 H 2