MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 824 Seasonable,—The best time for preserving eggs is from July to September. Eggs.—The quality oi eggs is said to be very much affected by the food of the fowls vrho lay them. Herbs and grain together make a better food than grain only. When the hens eat too many insects, the eggs have a disagreeable tiavour. TO BOIL EGGS FOK BHEAKFAST, SALADS, &c. 1656. Eggs for boiling cannot be too fresh, or boiled too soon after they are laid ; but rather a longer time should be allowed for boiling a new-laid egg than for one that is three or four days old. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water; put the eggs into it gently with a spoon, letting the spoon touch the bottom of the saucepan before it is withdrawn, that the egg may not fall, and consequently crack. For those who like eggs lightly boiled, 3 minutes will be found sufficient; 3| to 4 minutes will be ample time to set the white nicely; and, if liked hard, 6 to 7 minutes will not be found too long. Should the eggs be unusually large, as those of black Spanish fowls sometimes are, allow an EGG-STAND FOB THE EBAKFAST- gxtra ^ miuutc for thcm. Eggs for TABLE. , , salads should be boiled from 10 minutes to i hour, and should be placed in a basin of cold water for a few minutes ; they should then be rolled on the table with the hand, and the shell will peel off easily. Time.—To boil eggs lightly, for invalids or children, 3 minutes; to boil eggs to suit the generality of tastes, 3| to 4 minutes; to boil eggs hard, 6 to 7 minutes; for salads, 10 to 15 minutes. iVo^e.—Sih^er or plated egg-dishes, Hke that shown in our engraving, are now very much used. The price of the one illustrated is £2. 2s., and may be purchased of Messrs. K. & J. Slack, 33G, Strand. Eggs.—"When fresh eggs are dropped into a xesselfull of boiling water, they crack, because the eggs being well filled, the shells give way to the efforts of the interior fluids, dilated by heat. If the volume of hot water be small, the shells do not crack, because its temperature is reduced by the eggs before the interior dilation can take place. Stale eggs, again, do not crack, because the air inside is easily compressed. ji I BUTTEBED EGQS. ^ 1657. Ingredients.—4 new-laid eggs, 2 oz. of butter. M Mode,—Procure the eggs new-laid if possible ; break them into a basin, and beat them well; put the butter into another basin, which place in boiling water, and stir till the butter is melted. Pour that and the eggs into a lined saucepan; hold it over a gentle fire, and, as