HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1076 sensations. Howard, tho celebrated pliilantliropist (says a writer), used to fast one day in every week. Napoleon, when he felt his system unstrung, suspended his wonted repast^ and took his exercise on horseback. Fits. -2633. Fits come on so suddenly, often without even the slightest warning, and may prove fatal so quickly, that all people should be acquainted at least with their leading symptoms and treatment, as a few moments, more or less, will often decide the question between life and death. The treatment, in very- many cases at least, to be of the slightest use, should be immediate, as a person in a fit (of apoplexy for instance) may die while a surgeon is being fetched from only the next street. We shall give, as far as the fact of our editing a work for non-professional readers will permit, the peculiar and distinctive symptoms of all kind of fits, and the immediate treatment to be adopted in each case. 2634. Apoplexy.—These fits may be divided into two kinds—the strong and the iveah. 2635. 1. The strong Jcincl.—These cases mostly occur in stout, strong, short- necked, bloated-faced people, who are in the habit of living well.—Symptoms. The patient may or may not have had headache, sparks before his eyeS;, with confusion of ideas and giddiness, for a day or two before the attack. When it takes place, he falls down insensible ; the bod}'' becomes para- lyzed, generally more so on one side than the other; the face and head are hot, and the blood-vessels about them swollen; the pupils of the eyes are larger than natural, and the eyes themselves are fixed ; the mouth is mostlj" drawn down at one corner ; the breathing is like loud snoring ; the pulse full and hard.—Treatment. Place the patient immediately in bed, with his head well raised ; take off everything that he has round his neck, and bleed freely and at once from the arm. If you have not got a lancet, use a pen- knife or anything suitable that may be at hand. Apply warm mustard poultices to the soles of the feet and the insides of the thighs and legs; put two drops of castor oil, mixed up with eight grains of calomel, on the top of the tongue, as far back as possible ; a most important part of the treatment being to open the bowels as quickly and freely as possible. The patient cannot swallow; but these medicines, especially the oil, will be absorbed into the stomach altogether independent of any voluntary action. If possible, throw up a warm turpentine clyster (two table- spoonfuls of oil of turpentine in a pint of warm gruel), or, if this cannot bo obtained, one composed of about a quart of warm salt-and-water and soai>. Cut off the hair, and apply rags dipped in weak vinegar-and-water, or weak gin-and-water, or even simple cold water, to the head. If the blood-vessels about the head and neck are much swollen, put from eight to ten leeches on the temple opposite to the paralyzed side of the body. Always send for a Burgeon immediately, and act according to the above rules, doing more or less,