MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKErvY. guests around the table. Well-fattened and tender, a fowl is to the cook what the canvas is to the i^ainter; for do we not see it served boiled, roasted, fried, fricasseed, hashed, hot, cold, whole, dismembered, boned, broiled, stulFed, on dishes, and in pies,— always handy and ever acceptable ? The Common- on Domestic Fowl.—From time immemorial, the common or domestic fowl has been domesticated in England, and is supposed to be originally the offspring of some wild species which abound in the forests of India. It is divided into a variety of breeds, but the most esteemed are, the Poland or Black, the Dorking, the Bantam, the Game Fowl, and the Malay or Chittagong. The common, or barn-door fowl, is one of the most delicate of the varieties; and at Dorking, in Surrey, the breed is brought to great perfection. Till they are four months old, the term chicken is apphed to the younj^ female; after that age they are called pullets, till they begin to lay, when they are called hens. Tlie English counties most productive in poultry are Surrey, Sussex, Norfolk, Herts, Devon, and Somerset. FRENCH CHICKEJSr CUTLETS (Cold Meat Cookery). 927. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled fowl, fried bread, clarified butter, the yolk of 1 egg, bread crumbs, i teaspoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste. For sauce,—1 oz. of butter, -2 minced shalots, a few slices of carrot, a small bunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, 1 blade of pounded mace, 6 peppercorns, I pint of gravy. Ilode.—Cut the fowls into as many nice cutlets as possible; take a corresponding number of sippets about the same size, all cut one shape; fry them a pale brown, put them before the fire, then dip the cutlets into clarified butter mixed with the yolk of an egg, cover with bread crumbs seasoned in the above proportion, with lemon-peel, mace, salt, and cayenne; fry them for about 5 minutes, put each piece on one of the sippets, pile them high in the dish, and serve with the following sauce, which should be made ready for the cutlets. Put the butter into a stewpan, add the shalots, carrot, herbs, mace, and peppercorns; fry for 10 minutes or rather longer; pour in i pint of good gravy, made of the chicken bones, stew gently for 20 minutes, strain it, and serve. Time. — 5 minutes to fry the cutlets ; 35 minutes to make the gravy. Average cost, exclusive of the chicken, 9^7. Seasonahle from April to July. Eggs pok HatchinCt.—Eggs intended for hatching should be removed as soon as laid, and placed in bran in a dry, cool place. Choose those that are near of a size; and, as a rule, avoid those that are equally thick at both ends,—such, probably, contain a doublo Tolk, and will come to no good. Eggs intended for hatching should never be stored longer than a month, as much less the better. Nine eggs may be placed under a Bantam hen, and as many as fifteen under a Dorking. The odd number is considered pr^erable, as more easily packed. It will be as well to mark the eggs you give the hen to sit on, so that you may know if she lays any more : if she does, you must remove them; for, if hatched at all, they would be too late for the brood. If during incubation an egg should be broken, remove it, and take out the remainder, and cleanse them in luke-warm water, or it is probable the sticky natvire of the contents of the broken egg will make the others cling to the hen's feathers; and they, too, may be fractured. Hens Sitting,—Some hens are very capricious as regards sitting ; they will make a great fuss, and keep pining for the nest, and, when they are permitted to take to it, they