VARIOUS MODES OF COOKING MEAT. 26i 55,4. All Dishes prepared for Baking should be more highly seasoned than when intended to be roasted. There are some dishes which, it may be said, are at least equally well cooked in the oven as by the roaster; thus, a shoulder of mutton and baked potatoes, a fillet or breast of veal, a sucking pig, a hare, well basted, will be received by connoisseurs as well, when baked, as if they had been roasted. Indeed, the baker's oven, or the family oven, may often, as has been said, be substituted for the cook and the spit with greater economy and convenience. 555. A Baking-dish, of which we give an engraving, should not bo less than 6 or 7 inches deep; so that the meat, which of course cannot be basted, can stew in its own juices. In the recipe for each dish, full explana- tions concerning any special points in relation to it will be given. BoiLma. 556. Boiling, or the preparation of meat by hot water, though one of the easiest processes in cookery, requires skilful management. Boiled meat should be tender, savoury, and fullof its own juice, or natural gravy ; but, through the carelessness and ignorance of cooks, it is too often sent to table hard, tasteless, and innutritions. To insure a successful result in boiling flesh, the heat of the lire must be judiciously regulated, the proper quantity of water must be kept up in the pot, and the scum which rises to the surface must be carefully removed. 557. Many Writers on Cookery assert that the meat to be boiled should be i3ut into cold ivater, and that the pot should be heated gradually; but Liebig, the highest authority on all matters connected with the chemistry of food, has shov/n that meat so treated loses some of its most nutritious constituents. " If the flesh," says the great chemist, "be introduced into the boiler when th© water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boiling be kept up for a few minutes, and the pot then placed in a warm place, so that the temperature of the water is kept at 158° to 165°, we have the united conditions for giving to the flesh the qualities which best fit it for being eaten." V/hen a piece of meat is plunged into boiling water, the albumen which is near the surface immediately coagulates, forming an envelope, which jDrevents the escape of the internal juice, and most effectually excludes the water, which, by mixing with this juice, would render the meat insipid. Meat treated thus is juicy and well-flavoured, when cooked, as it retains most of its savoury constituents. On the other hand, if the piece of meat be set on the fire with cold water, and this slowly heated to boiling, the flesh undergoes a loss of soluble and nutritious substances, while, as a matter of course, the soup becomes richer in these matters. The albumen is gradually dissolved from the surface to the centre; the fibre loses, more or less, its quality of shortness or tenderness, and becomes hard and tough : the thinner the piece of meat is, the greater is its loss of savoury constituents. In order to obtain well-flavoured and eatable