VARIOUS MODES OF COOKING MEAT. 578. If a Spit is used to support the meat before the firC; it should be kept quite bright. Sand and water ought to be used to scour it with^ for brickdust and oil may give a disagreeable taste to the meat. When well scoured, it must be wiped quite dry with a clean cloth; and, in spitting the meat, the prime parts should be left untouched, so as to avoid any great escape of its juices. 579. Kitchens in Lauge Establishments are usually fitted with what are termed '^smoke-jacks." By means of these, several spits, if required, may be turned at the same time. This not being, of course, necessary in smaller establishments, a roasting apparatus, more economical in its consumption of coal, is more frequently in use. 580. The Bottle-jack, of which we here give an illustration, with the wheel and hook, and showing the precise manner of using it, is now commonly used in many kitchens. This consists of a spring inclosed in a brass cylinder, and requires winding up before it is used, and some- times, also, during the operation of roasting. The joint is fixed to an iron hook, which is suspended by a chain connected with a wheel, and which, in its turn, is connected with the bottle-jack. Beneath it stands the dripping-pan, which we have also engraved, together with the basting-ladle, the use of which latter should not be spared ; as there can be no good roast without good basting. ^' Spare the rod, and spoil the child," might easily be paraphrased into Spare the basting, and spoil the meat." If the joint is small and light, and so turns unsteadily, this may be remedied by fixing to the wheel one of the kitchen weights. Sometimes this jack is fixed inside a screen; but there is this objection to this apparatus,—that the meat cooked in it resembles the flavour of baked meat. This is derived from its being so completely surrounded with the tin, that no sufiicient current of air gets to it. It will be found preferable to make use of a common meat- screen, such as is shown in the woodcut . This contains shelves for warming plates and dishes; and with this, the reflection not being so powerful, and more air being admitted to the joint, the roast may be very excellently cooked. 581. In Stirring the Fire, or putting tresh coals on it, the dripping-pan should deippis-g-pan- akd basting-lidlb. EOTTLE-JACE, WITH WHEEL AND HOOK.