MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 5C5 should there be any black specks, remove them. If very lar^e, cut them in halves, divide them lengthwise into four pieces, and put them into boiling water, salted in the above proportion; let them boil until tender, which may be ascertained by thrusting a fork into them : dish, and serve very hot. This vegetable is an indispensable accompaniment to boiled beef. Y\''hen thus served, it is usually boiled with the beef; a few carrots are placed round the dish as a garnish, and the remainder sent to table iu a vcgetable-dish. Young carrots do not require nearly so much boiling, nor should they be divided : these make a nice addition to stewed veal, &c. T/??2e.—Large carrots, If to 2i hours; young ones, about i hour. Average cost, 6d. to 8d, per bunch of 18. Sufficient,—i large carrots for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable.—Young carrots from April to June, old ones at any time. Oeioin of TnE Careot.—In its wild state, this vegetable is found plentifully in Britain, both in cultivated lands and by waysides, and is known by the name of birds-nest, from its umbels of fruit becoming incurved from a hollow cup, like a birds-nest. In this state its root is whitish, slender, and hard, with an acrid, disagreeable taste, and a strong aromatic smell, and was formerly x^sed as an aperient. When cultivated, it is reddish, thick, fleshy, with a pleasant odour, and a peculiar, CAEEOTS. sweet, mucilaginous taste. The carrot is said by naturalists not to contain much nourishing matter, and, generally speak- ' ing, is somevv'hat difficult of digestion. TO DFvESS CARBOTS IH THE GERMAJsT WAY. 1101. Ingredients.—8 large carrots, 3 oz. of butter, salt to taste, a very little grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful of finely-minced parsley, 1 dessertspoonful of minced onion, rather more than 1 pint of weak stock or broth, 1 tablespoonful of flour. 3£ode.—Wash and scrape the carrots, and cut them into rings of about I inch in thickness. Put the butter into a stewpan; when it is melted, lay in the carrots, with salt, nutmeg, parsley, and onion in the above proportions. Toss the stewpan over the fire for a few minutes, and when the carrots are well saturated with the butter, pour in the stock, and simmer gently until they are nearly tender. Then put into another stev/pan a small piece of butter; dredge in about a tablespoonful of flour ; stir this over the fire, and when of a nice brown colour, add the liquor that the carrots have been boiling in ; let this just boil up, pour it over the carrots in the other stewpan, and let them finish simmering until quite tender. Serve very hot