832 lIOLEr.N HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 1671. In our own times, and among civilized peoples, bread has become an article of food of the first necessity; and properly so, for it constitutes of itself a complete life-sustainer, the gluten, starch, and sugar, which it con- tains, representing azotized and hydro-carbonated nutrients, and combining the sustaining powers of the animal and vegetable kingdoms in one product. T672. Wheaten Bread.—The finest, wholesomest, and most savoury bread is made from wheaten flour. There are, of wheat, three leading qualities,— the soft, the medium, and the hard wheat; the last of which yields a kind of bread that is not so white as that made from soft wheat, but is richer in gluten, and, consequently, more nutritive. 1673. Rye Bread.—This comes next to wheaten bread : it is not so rich in gluten, but is said to keep fresh longer, and to have some laxative qualities. 1674. Barley Bread, Indian-Corn Bread, &c.—Bread made from barley, maize^ oats, rice, potatoes, &c. "rises" badly, because the grains in question contain but little gluten, which makes the bread heavy, close in texture, and difficult of digestion ; in fact, corn-flour has to be added before panification can take place. In countries where wheat is scarce and maize abundant, the people make the latter a chief article of sustenance, when prepared in different forms. BKBAD-MAKING. 1675. Panification, or bread-making, consists of the following processes, in the case of Wheaten Flour. Fifty or sixty per cent, of water is added to the flour, with the addition of some leavening matter, and, preferably, of yeast from malt and hops. All kinds of leavening matter have, however, been, and are still used in different parts of the world : in the East Indies, toddy," which is a liquor that flows from the wounded cocoa-nut tree ; and, in the West Indies, "dunder," or the refuse of the distillation of rum. The dough then undergoes the well-known process called hieacUng. The yeast produces fermentation, a process which may be thus described :—The dough reacting upon the leavening matter introduced, the starch of the flour is transformed into saccharine matter, the saccharine matter being afterwards changed into alcohol and carbonic acid. The dough must be well " bound," and yet allow the escape of the little bubbles of carbonic acid which accompany the fermen- tation, and which, in their passage, cause the numerous little holes which are seen in light bread. 1676. The yeast must be good and fresh, if the bread is to be digestible and nice. Stale yeast produces, instead of vinous fermentation, an acetous fer- mentation, which flavours the bread and makes it disagreeable. A poor thin