POULTRY. 493 The Aitgoba Rabbit.—This is one of the handsomest of all rabbits. It talies its name from being an inhabitant of Angora, a city and district of Asia Minor. Like the well- known Angora goat and eat, both of which are valuable on account of the fineness of their wool and fur, this rabbit is prized for its long, waved, silky fur, which, as an article of com- merce, is highly esteemed. We are not aware whether it is eaten by the inhabitants, and but few specimens have been introduced into Eng- land, where, doubtless, the beauty of its coat would materially suffer from the more humid and less genial character of the climate. To the rabbits of the ancient and mountainous district of Angora the words of the wise man would seem most to apply, ** The conies are but feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks." Ths Himalaya Rabbit.—Amidst the mighty Himalaya mxountains, whose peaks are the high- est on the globe, the pretty i*abbit here por- traj'ed is found j and his colour seems to be lilce tlie snow, which, above the altitude of from 13,000 to 16,000 feet, perpetually crowns the summits of these monarchs of the world. It is, at present, a very rare animal in England, but will, doubtless, be more extensively known in the course of a few years. From the earth- tunnelling powers of this little animal, Martial declares that mankind learned the art of forti- fication, mining, and covered roads. Himalaya babbits. BOILED TURKEY. 9B6. Ii^GREDiENTS.—Turkey; forcemeat No. 417. Choosing and Trussing,—Hen turkeys are preferable for boiling^, on account of their whiteness and tenderness, and one of moderate size should be selected, as a large one is not suitable for this mode of cooking. They should not be dressed until they have been killed 3 or 4 days, as they will neither look white, nor will they be tender. Pluck the bird, carefully draw, and singe it with a piece of white paper • wash it inside and out, and wipe it thoroughly dry with a cloth. Cut off the head and neck, draw the strings or sinews'of the thighs, and cut off the legs at the first joint; draw the legs into the body, fill the breast with forcemeat made by recipe No. 417 ; run a skewer through the wing and the middle joint of the leg, quite into the leg and wing on the opposite side; break the breastbone, and make the bird look as round and as compact as possible. Mode.—Put the turkey into sufficient hot water to cover it; let it come to a boil, then carefully remove all the scum : if this is .attended to, there is no occasion to boil the bird in a fioured cloth; but it should be well covered with the wat^r. Let it simmer very gently for about 14-hour to If hour, according boiled turkey.