MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 8S4 arises to be tlirown out, and the casks kept filled with the remaining " must,'* that should be reserved for that purpose. When the active fermentation has ceased, the casks should be plugged upright, again filled, if necessary, the bungs be put in loosely, and, after a few days, when the fermentation is a little more languid (which may be known by the hissing noise ceasing), the bungs should be driven in tight, and a spile-hole made, to give vent if necessary. About November or December, on a clear fine day, the wine should be racked from its lees into clean casks, which may be rinsed with brandy. After a month, it should be examined to see if it is sufiiciently clear for bottling; if not, it must be fined with isinglass, which may be dis- solved in some of the wine: 1 oz. will be sufiicient for 9 gallons. In March or April, or when the gooseberry bushes begin to blossom, the wine must be bottled, in order to insure its being efiervescing. Seasonable,—Koke this the end of May or beginning of June, before the berries ripen. IiEMOIsr SYRUP, .'i 1822. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 pints of water, 1 oz. of citric acid, i drachm of essence of lemon. 3fode.—Boil the sugar and water together for J hour, and put it into a basin, where let it remain till cold. Beat the citric acid to a : powder, mix the essence of lemon with it, then add these two ingre- dients to the syrup ; mix well, and bottle for use. Two tablespoonfuls of the syrup are sufficient for a tumbler of cold water, and will be found a very refreshing summer drink. Sufficient—2 tablespoonfuls of syrup to a tumbler-ful of cold waterJj liEMON" WINE. ' 1823. IiTGEEDiENTS.—To galloHs of wator allow the pulp of 50 lemons, the rind of 25, 16 lbs. of loaf sugar, i oz. of isinglass, 1 bottle of brandy. Mode.—Peel and slice the lemons, but use only the rind of 25 of them, and put them into the cold water. Let it stand 8 or 9 days, squeezing the lemons well every day ; then strain the water ofi" and put it into a cask with the sugar. Let it work some time, and when it has ceased v^orking, put in the isinglass. Stop the cask down; in about six ntonths put in the brandy and bottle the wine ofi". Seasonable.—The best time to make this is in January or February, when lemons are best and cheapest.