RECIPES. CHAPTER XXVII. VEBY GOOD PUPF-PASTE. 1^05. Ikgeedieistts.—To every lb. of flour allow 1 lb. of butter, and not quite J pint of water. 3iode.—Carefully weigh the flour and butter, and have the exact proportion; squeeze the butter well, to extract the water from it, and afterwards wring it in a clean cloth, that no moisture may remain. Sift the flour; see that it is perfectly dry, and proceed in the following manner to make the paste, using a very clean paste- hoard and rolling-pin :~Siipposing the quantity to be 1 lb. of flour, work the whole into a smooth paste, with not quite J pint of water, using a knife to mis it with: the proportion of this latter ingredient must be regulated by the discretion of the cook; if too much be added, the paste, when baked, will be tough. Eoll it out until it is of an equal thickness of about an inch; break 4 oz. of the butter into small pieces; place these on the paste, sift over it a little flour, fold it over, roll out again, and put another 4 oz. of butter. Repeat the rolling and buttering until the paste has been rolled out 4 times, or equal quan- tities of flour and butter have been used. Do not omit, every time the paste is rolled out, to dredge a little flour over that and the rolling-pin, to prevent both from sticking. Handle the paste as lightly as possible, and do not press heavily upon it with the rolling-pin. The next thing to be considered is the oven, as the baking of pastry requires particular attention. Do not put it into the oven until it is sufflciently hot to raise the paste ; for the best-prepared paste, if not properly baked, will be good for nothing. Brushing the paste as often as rolled out, and the pieces of butter placed thereon, with the white of an egg, assists it to rise in leaves or flahes. As this is the great beauty of puft-paste, it is as well to try this method. Average cost^ Is. 4.d. per lb. Butter.—About the secoud century of tlie Christian era, butter was placed by Galen amongst the useful medical agents; and about a century before him, Dioscorides men- tioned that he had noticed that fresh butter, made of ewes' and goats' milk, was served at meals instead of oil, and that it took the place of fat in makiug pastry. Thus we have undoubted authority that, eighteen hundred years ago, there existed a knowledge of the