VEAL. a relish for the fresh pasture, which, by the tenth or twelfth week, it will begin to nibble and enjoy. After a certain time, the quantity of milk may be diminished, and its place supplied by water thickened with meal. Hay-tea and linseed-jelly are also higlily nutritious substances, and may be used either as adjuncts or substitutes. FBICASSEED CALF'S HEAD (an Entree). 863. Ingeedients.—The remains of a boiled calf's head, 1^- pint of the liquor in which the head was boiled, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 onion minced, a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and white pepper to taste, thickening of butter and flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon- ful of lemon-juice, forcemeat balls. Mode.—K-emove all the bones from the head, and cut the meat into nice square pieces. Put H pint of the liquor it was boiled in into a saucepan, with mace, onion, herbs, and seasoning in the above pro- portion ; let this simmer gently for f hour, then strain it and put in the meat. When quite hot through, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, and, just before dishing the fricassee, put in the beaten yolks of eggs and lemon-juice ; but be particular, after these two latter ingredients are added, that the sauce does not boil, or it will curdle. Garnish with forcemeat balls and curled slices of broiled bacon. To insure the sauce being smooth, it is a good plan to dish the meat first, and then to add the eggs to the gravy: when these are set, the sauce may be poured over the meat. Ti77ie,—Altogether, I5 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 6d. CALF'S HEAD a la Maitre d'Hotel. 864. Ingeedients.—The remains of a cold calf's head, rather more than 1 pint of Maitre d'hotel sauce No. 466. Mode.—Make the sauce by recipe No. 466, and have it sufficiently thick that it may nicely cover the meat; remove the bones from the head, and cut the meat into neat slices. When the sauce, is ready, lay in the meat; let it gradually/ warm through, and, after it boils up, let it simmer very gently for 5 minutes, and serve. Tiiiie.—'Raihev more than H hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Is. 2d. Seasonable from March to October. The Calf iif Ameeica.—In America, the calf is left with the mother for three op four days, when it is removed, and at once fed on barley and oats ground together and made into a gruel, 1 quart of the meal being boiled for half an hour in 12 quarts of water. One quart of this certainly nutritious gruel, is to be given, lukewarm, morning and evening. In ten days, a bundle of soft hay is put beside the calf, which he soon begins to eat, and, at the same time, some of the dry meal is placed in his manger for him to lick. This process, gradually increasing the quantity of gruel twice a day, is continued for two months, till the calf is fit to go to grass, and, as it is said, with the best possible success. But, in this country, the mode pointed out in No. 862 has received the sanction I of the best experience.