802 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. herbs, spices, and seasoning', and cover with a little weak stock or water ; close the stewpan as hermetically as possible, and simmer very gently for 4 hours. Strain the liquor, reserve a portic n of it for sauce, and the remainder boil quickly over a sharp lire until reduced to a glaze, with which glaze the meat. Garnish the dish with scooped carrots and turnips, and when liked, a little cabbage; all of which must be cooked separately. Thicken and flavour the liquor that was saved for sauce, pour it round the meat, and serve. The beef may also be garnished with glazed onions, artichoke-bottoms, &c. Time.—^ hours. A venge cosi, Id. per lb. Sui/icient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonahle at any time. !F£E5rcH Beep.—It has been all but universally admitted, that the beef of France is greatly inferior in quality to that of England, owing to inferiority of pasturage. M. Curmer, however, one of the latest writers on the culinary art, tells us that this is a vulgar error, and that French beef is far superior to that of England. This is mere vaunting on the part of our neighbours, who seem to want la gloire in everything; and we should not deign to notice it, if it had occurred in a work of small pretensions ; but M. Curmer's book professes to be a complete exposition of the scientific principles of cookery, and liolds a high rank in the didactic literature of France. We half suspect that M. Curmer obtained his knowledge of English beef in the same way as did the poor Frenchman, whom the late Mr, Mathews, the comedian, so humorously described. Mr. Lewis, in his "Physiology of Common Life," has thus revived the story of the beef-eating son of France :—"A Frenchman was one day blandly remonstrating against the supercilious scorn expressed by Englishmen for the beef of France, which he, for his part, did not find so inferior to that of England. * I have been two times in England/ he remarked, ' but I nevere find the bif so superieur to ours. I find it vary conveenient that they bring it you on leetle pieces of stick, for one penny; but I do not find the bif superieur.' On hearing this, the Englishman, red Vvith astonishment, exclaimed, * Good heavens, sir! you have been eating cat's meat.' " No, M. Curmer, we are ready to acknowledge the superiority of your cookery, but we have long since made up our mmds as to the inferiority of your raw material. OLIVES. I. 650. Ii^-GEEDIEITTS.—2 Ibs. of rump-steak, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of minced savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of stock, No. 105, 2 or 3 slices of bacon, 2 tablespoonfuls of any store sauce, a slight thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Have the steaks cut rather thin, slightly beat them to make them level, cut them into 6 or 7 pieces, brush over with egg, and sprinkle v/ith herbs, which should be very finely minced; season with pepper and salt, and roll up the pieces tightly, and fasten with a small skewer. Put the stock in a stewpan that will exactly hold them, for by being pressed together, they will keep their shape better ; lay in the rolls of meat, co^er them with the bacon, cut in thin slices, and over that put a piece of paper. Stew them very gently for full 2 hours; for the slower they are done the better. Take them out, rem.ove the skewers, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, and