MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 470 in the butter; add pounded mace, pepper, salt, curry-powder, vinegar, £our, and sugar in tlie above proportions; when the onion is brown, put in the gravy, which should be previously made from the bones and trimmings of the fowls, and stew for f hour; add the fowl cut into nice-sized joints, let it v/arm through, and when quite tender, serve. The dish should be garnished with an edging of boiled rice. Tirne.—1 hour. Average cost^ exclusive of the fowl, Sd. Seasonable at any time. The Scour or Dysentery.—The scour, or dysentery, or diarrhcea, is induced variously. A sudden alteration in diet will cause it, as will a superabundance of green food. The best remedy is a piece of toasted biscuit sopped in ale. If the disease has too tight a hold on the bird to be quelled by this^ give six drops of syrup of white poppies and six drops of cantor-oil, naixed with a little oatmeal or gi^ound rice. Eestrict the bird's diet, for a few days, to dry food,—crushed beans or oats, stale bread- crumbs, &c. FOWL SCOLLOPS (Cold Meat Cookery). 958. Ingeedients.—The remains of cold roast or boiled fowl, i pint of Bechamel, No. 367, or white sauce, No. 537 or 539. Mode,—Strip off the skin from the fowl; cut the meat into thin slices, and warm them in about i pint, or rather more, of Bechamel, or white sauce. When quite hot, serve, and garnish the dish with rolled ham or bacon toasted. Time.—1 minute to simmer the slices of fowl. Seasonable at any time. The Feather-legged Bajs^tam.—Since the introduction of the Bantam into Europe, it has ramified into many varieties, none of which are destitute of elegance, and some, indeed, remarkable for their beauty. AH are, or ought to be, of small size, but lively and vigorous, exhibiting in their move- ments both grace and stateliness. The variety shown in the engraving is remarkable for the tarsiy or beams of the legs, being plumed to the toes, with stiff, long feathers, which brush the ground. Owing, possibly, to the little care taken to preserve this variety from admixture, it is now not frequently seen. Another variety is often red, with a black breast and single dentated comb. The tani are smooth, and of a dusky blue. When this sort of Bantam is pure, it yields in courage and spirit to none, and is, in fact, a game-fowl in miniature, being as beautiful and graceful as it is spirited. A pure white Bantam, possessing all the quanlications just named, is also bred iu the royal aviary at Windsor. AlSr IHDIAIT DISH OB' FOWL (an Entree). A 959. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, 3 or 4. sliced onions, 1 tablespoonful of curry-powder, salt to taste. JfofZe.—Divide the fowl into joints ; slice and fry the onions in a little butter, taking care not to burn them; sprinkle over tho fov/1 a EEATHEB-LEGGED BANTAMS.