83 FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. When ready to serve, add a little sliced carrot, celery, and turnip, and flavour with a spoonful of Harvey's sauce, or a little ketchup. Thne.—Sh hours. Average cost, Qd. per quart. Seasonabh all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. III. {Good and Cheap, made without Meat.) 161. Ingredients.—6 potatoes, 4 turnips, or 2 if very large; 2 carrots, 2 onions ; if obtainable, 2 mushrooms ; 1 head of celery, 1 large slice of bread, 1 small saltspoonful of salt, 5 saltspoonful of ground black pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of Harvey's sauce, 6 quarts of water. Mode.—Peel the vegetables, and cut them np into small pieces; toast the bread rather brown, and put all into a stewpan with the water and seasoning. Simmer gently for 3 hours, or until all is reduced to a pulp, and pass it through a sieve in the same way as pea-soup, which it should resemble in consistence; but it should be a dark brown colour. "Warm it up again when required ; put in the Harvey*s sauce, and, if necessary, add to the flavouring. Time.—3 hours, or rather more. Average cost, Id. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 16 persons. Note.—This receipe was forwarded to the Editress by a lady in the county of Durham, by whom it was strongly recommended. VEBMICSLLI SOUP. I. 162. Ingredients.—H lb. of bacon, stuck with cloves; i oz. of butter, worked up in flour ; 1 small fowl, trussed for boiling; 2 oz. of vermicelli, 2 quarts of white stock, No. 107. 3fode.—V\it the stock, bacon, butter, and fowl into the stewpan, and stew for f of an hour. Take the vermicelli, add it to a little of the stock, and set it on the fire, till it is quite tender. When the soup is ready, take out the fowl and bacon, and put the bacon on a dish. Skim the soup as clean as pos- sible ; pour it, with the vermicelli, over the fowl. Cut some bread thin, put in the soup, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, exclusive of the fowl and bacon, 10^?. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 4 persons. VEEiiicELLi.—This is a preparation of Italian origin, and is veemicellI. made in the same way as macaroni, only the yolks of eggs, sugar, saifron, and cheese, are added to the paste. G 2