HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. hour, half a wine-glass of water in which 10 or 15 drops of the elixir of fciint, he can, in most cases at least, easily be brought to again by the operator placing him flat on his back, and stopping the bleeding. This is of the greatest importance. It has been recommended, for what supposed advan- tages we don't know, to bleed people when they are lying down. Should a person, under these circumstances, faint, what could be done to bring him to again ? The great treatment of lowering the body of the patient to the flat position cannot be followed here. It is in that position already, and cannot bo placed lower than it at present is—except, as is most likely to be the case, under the ground. 2607. Bleeding from the Nose.—Many children, especially those of a sanguineous temperament, are subject to sudden discharges of blood from some part of the body ; and as all such fluxes are in general the result of an effort of nature to relieve the system from some overload or pressure, such discharges, unless in excess, and when likely to produce debility, should not be rashly or too abruptly checked. In general, these discharges are confined to the summer or spring months of the year, and follow pains in the head, a sense of drowsiness, languor, or oppression; and, as such symptoms are relieved hy the loss of blood, the hemorrhage should, to a certain extent, be encouraged. \Yhen, however, the bleeding is excessive, or returns too fre- quently, it becomes necessary to apply means to subdue or mitigate the amount. For this purpose the sudden and unexpected application of cold is itself sufficient, in most cases, to arrest the most active hemorrhage. A wet towel laid suddenly on the back, between the shoulders, and placing the child in a recumbent posture, is often sufficient to effect the object; where, however, the effusion resists such simple means, napkins wrung out of cold water must be laid across the forehead and nose, the hands dipped in cold water, and a bottle of hot water applied to the feet. If, in spite of these means, the bleeding continues, a little fine wool or a few folds of lint, tied together by a piece of thread, must be pushed up the nostril from which the blood flows, to act as a plug and pressure on the bleeding vessel. When the discharge has entirely ceased, the plug is to be pulled out by means of the thread. To prevent a repetition of the hemorrhage, the body should bo sponged every morning with cold water, and the child put under a course of steel wine, have open-air exercise, and, if possible, salt-water bathing. For children, a key suddenly dropped down the back between the skin and clothes, will often immediately arrest a copious bleeding. 2608. Spitting of Blood, or hemorrhage from the lungs, is generally known from blood from the stomach by its being of a brighter colour, and in less quantities than that, which is always grumous and mixed with the half-digested food. In either case, rest should be immediately enjoined, total abstinence from stimulants, and a low, poor diet, accom- panied with the horizontal position, and bottles of boiling water to the feet. At the same time the patient should suck through a quill, every