HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1052 of course, is a condition tliat renders the case very bazardous, as the child lias to struggle against two diseases at once, or before it has recruited strength from the attack of the first. 2541. Treatment.—In all ordinary cases of chicken-pox—and it is very seldom it assumes any complexity—the whole treatment resolves itself into the use of the warm bath, and a course of gentle aperients. The bath should be used when the oppression of the lungs renders the breathing difficult, or the heat and dryness of the skin, with the undeveloped rash beneath the esurface, shows the necessity for its use. 2542. As the pustules in chicken-pox very rarely run to the state of suppura- tion, as in the other disease, there is no fear of intling or disfigurement, except in very severe forms, which, however, happen so seldom as not to merit apprc- Jiension. When the eruption subsides, however, the face may be washed with elder-flower water, and the routine followed which is prescribed in the con- valescent state of small-pox. 2543. Cow-pox, properly speaking, is an artificial disease, established in a healthy body as a prophylactic, or preventive agent, against the more serious attack of small-pox, and is merely that chain of slight febrile symptoms and local irritation, consequent on the specific action of the lymph of the vaccina- tion, in its action on the circulating system of the bodj^ This is not the place to speak of the benefits conferred on mankind by the discovery of vaccination, not only as the preserver of the human features from a most loathsome dis- figurement, but as a sanitary agent in the prolongation of life. 2544. Fortunately the State has now made it imperative on all parents to have their children vaccinated before, or by the end of, the twelfth week; thus doing away, as far as possible, with the danger to public health proceeding from the ignorance or prejudice of those parents whose want of information on the subject makes them object to the employment of this specific preventive ; for though vaccination has been proved not to be ahvays an infallible guard against small-pox, the attack is always much lighter, should it occur, and is seldom, if indeed ever, fatal after the precaution of vaccination. The best time to vac- cinate a child is after the sixth and before the twelfth week, if it is in perfect health, but still earlier if small-pox is prevalent, and any danger exists of tho infant taking the disease. It is custom.ary, and always advisable, to give the child a mild aperient powder one or two days before inserting the lymph in tho arm ; and should measles, scarlet fever, or any other disease arise during tho progress of the pustule, the child, when recovered, should be re-vaccinated, and the lymph taken from its arm on no account used for vaccinating purposes. 2545. The disease of cow-pox generally takes twenty days to complete its course; in other words, the maturity and declension of the pustule takes that