FISH. 129 eels are small, curl tliem round, instead of cutting tliem up. Garnish with fried parsley. Time.—20 minutes, or rather less. Average cost, 6d. per lb. Seasonahle from June to March. Note.—Garfish may be dressed like eels, aud either broiled or baked. The Peoductiveness of the Eel.—"Having occasion," says Dr. Anderson, in the Bee, to be once on a visit to a friend's house on Dee-side, in Aberdeenshire, I frequently- delighted to walk by the banks of the river. I, one day, observed something like a black string moving along the edge of the water, where it was quite shallow. Upon closer inspection, I discovered that this was a shoal of young eels, so closely joined together as to appear, on a superficial view, one continued body, moving briskly up against the stream. To avoid the retardment they experienced from the force of the current, they kept close along the water's edge the whole of the way, following all the bendings and sinuosities of the river. Where they were embayed, and in stiU water, the shoal dilated in breadth, so as to be sometimes nearly a foot broad ; but when they turned a cape, where the current was strong, they were forced to occupy less space and press close to the shore, struggling very hard till they passed it. This shoal continued to move on, night and day without interruption for several weeks. Their progress might be at the rate of about a mUe an hour. It was easy to catch the animals, though they were very active and nimble. They were eels perfectly well formed in every respect, but not exceeding two inches in length. I conceive that the shoal did not contain, on an average, less than from twelve to twenty in breadth; so that the number that passed, on the whole, must have been very great. Whence they came or whither they went, I know not; but the place where I saw this, was six miles from the sea." EEL PIE. 253. Ingkedients. — 1 lb. of eels, a little chopped parsley, 1 shalot; grated nutmeg; pepper and salt to taste; the juice of J a lemon, small quantity of forcemeat, J pint of bechamel {see Sauces); puff paste. Mode.—Skin and wash the eels, cut them into pieces 2 inches long*, and line the bottom of the pie-dish with forcemeat. Put in the eels, and sprinkle them with the parsley, shalots, nutmeg, seasoning, and lemon-juice, and cover with puff-paste. Bake for 1 hour, or rather more ; make the bechamel hot, and pour it into the pie. Time.—llather more than 1 hour. Seasonahle from August to March. COLLABED EEL. 254. Ingeediekts.—1 large eel; pepper and salt to taste; 2 blades of mace, 2 cloves, a little allspice very finely pounded, 6 leaves of sage, and a small bunch of herbs minced very small. Mode.—Bone the eel and skin it; split it, and sprinkle it over with the ingredients, taking care that the spices are very finely pounded, and the herbs chopped very small. Eoll it up and bind with a broad piece of tape, and boil it in water, mixed with a little salt and vinegar, till tender. It may either be served whole or cut in slices ; K