1100 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMEMT. not a good notice for tlie year ending October 11, 1841. A tenant from year to year gave his landlord notice to quit, ending the tenancy at a time within the half-year; the landlord acquiesced at first, but afterwards refused to accept the notice. The tenant quitted the premises ; the landlord entered, and even made some repairs, but it was afterwards held that the tenancy was not determined.. A notice to quit must be such as the tenant may safely act on at the time of receiving it; therefore it can only be given by an agent pro- perly authorized at the time, and cannot be made good by the landlord adopting it afterwards. An unqualified notice, given at the proper time, should conclude with " On failure whereof, I shall require you to pay mo double the former rent for so long as you retain possession." 2702. Leases.—A lease is an instrument in writing, by which one person grants to another the occupation and use of lands or tenements for a term of years for a consideration, the lessor granting the lease, and the lessee accepting it with all its conditions. A lessor may grant the lease for any term less than his own interest. A tenant for life in an estate can only grant a lease for his own life. A tenant for life, having power to grant a lease, should grant it only in the terms of the power, otherwise the lease is void, and his estate may 'bo made to pay heavy penalties under the covenant, usually the only one onerous on the lessor, for quiet enjoyment. The proprietor of a freehold— that is, of the possession in perpetuity of lands or tenements—may grant a lease for 999 years, for 99 years, or for 3 years. In the latter case, the lease may be either verbal or in writing, no particular form and no stamps being- necessary, exce]3t the usual stamp on agreements; so long as the intention of the parties is clearly expressed, and the covenants definite, and well under- stood by each party, the agreement is complete, and the law satisfied. In the case of settled estates, the court of Chancery is empowered to authorize leases under the 19 & 20 Vict. c. 120, and 21 & 22 Vict. c. 77, as follows 21 years for agriculture or occupation. 40 years for water-power. 99 years for building-leases. 60 years for repairing-leases. 2703. A lessor may also grant an under-lease for a term less than his own : to grant the whole of his term would be an assignment. Leases are frequently burdened with a covenant not to underlet without the consent of the landlord : this is a covenant sometimes very onerous, and to be avoided, where it is possible, by a prudent lessee. ■2704. A lease for any term beyond three years, whether an actual lease or an agreement for one, must be in the form of a deed ; that is, it must bo ''under sealand all assignments and surrenders of leases must be in the same form, or they are void at laiv. Thus, an agreement made by letter, or by a memorandum of agreem.ent, wdiich would be binding in most cases.