V4U MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, Peach.—The peach and nectarine are amongst tlie most delicions of our fruits, and are considered as varieties of the same species produced by cultivation. Tlie former is characterized by a very delicate down, %vhile the latter is smooth; but, as a proof of their identity as to spe- cies, trees have borne peaches in one part and necta- rines in another ; and even a single fruit has had down on one side and the other smooth. The trees are almost exactly alike, as well as the blossoms. Pliny states that the peach was orip^inally brought from Persia, where it grows naturally, from which the name of Persica was bestowed upon it by the Romans; and some modern botanists apply this as the generic name, separating them from Amygdalus, or Almond, to which Linnreus had united them. Although they are not tropical, they require a great deal of warmth to bring them to perfec- tion : hence they seldom ripen in this country, in ordi- nary seasons, without the use of walls or glass; conse- quently, they bear a high price. In a good peach, the flesh is firm, the skin thin, of a deep bright colour next PEACH. ^^^> of a yellowish green next to the wall; the pulp is yellowish, full of highly-fiaToured juice, the fleshy part thick, and the stone small. Too much down is a sign of inferior quality. TMs fruit IS much used at the dessert, and makes a delicious preserve. PEAHS A L'ALLEMANDE. H/O. IXGPtEDlEXTS.—6 to 8 pears, water, sugar, 2 oz. of butter, the ! yolk of an egg, ^ oz. of gelatine. ! 3Iocle.—Peel and cut the pears into any form that may be pre* ! ferred, and steep them in cold water to prevent them turning black; | put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, and j boil them with the butter and enough sugar to sweeten them nicely» | until tender; then brush the pears over with the yolk of an egg. \ sprinkle them with sifted sugar, and arrange them on a dish. Add ! the gelatine to the syrup, boil it up quickly for about 5 minutes, J strain it over the pears, and let it remain until set. The syrup may \ be coloured with a little prepared cochineal, which would very much I improve the appearance of the dish. | Time,—Fxom 20 minutes to 4 hour to stew the pears ; o minutes t« I boil the syrup. J Average costf Is. ZcL 9fl Sufficient for a large dish. ^ Seasotiahle from August to February. ' MOULDED PEARS. 1471. IxGEEDiENTS.—4 large pears or 6 small ones, 8 cloves, sugar to taste, water, a small piece of cinnamon, i pint of raisin wine, a strip of lemon-peel, the juice of h lemon, h oz. of gelatine. J/ofZe.—Peel and cut the pears into quarters ; put them into a jar with I pint of water, cloves, cinnamon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole nicely ; cover down the top of the jar, and bake the pears in