24 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. the house putting on, v/ith the approaching summer, a bright appearance, and a new face, in unison with nature. Oranges now should be preserved, and orange wine made. The summer will be found, as we have mentioned above, in consequence of the diminution of labour for the domestics, the best period for examining and repairing household linen, and for "putting to rights" all those articles which have received a large share of weai and teai during the dark wmter days. In direct reference to this matter, we may here remark, that sheets should be turned " sides to middlebefore they are allowed to get very thin. Otherwise, patching, which is uneconomical trom the time it consumes, and is unsightly in point of appearance, will have to be resorted to. In June and July, gooseberries, currants, raspberries, strawberries, and other summer fruits, should be preserved, and jams and jellies made. In July, too, the making of walnut ketchup should be attended to, as the green walnuts will be approaching perfection for this purpose. Mixed pickles may also be now made, and it will be found a good plan to have ready a jar of pickle-juice (for the making of which all information will be given in future pages), mto which to put occasionally some young French beans, cauliflowers, &c. In the early autumn, plums of various kinds are to be bottled and preserved, and jams and jellies made. A little later, tomato sauce, a most useful article to have by you, may be prepared ; a supply of apples laid in, if you have a place to keep them, as also a few keeping pears and filberts. Jindeavour to keep also a large vegetable marrow,—it will be found delicious in the wmtei. In October and November, it will be necessary to prepare tor the coid weather, and get ready the winter clothing lor the various members of the family. The white summer curtains will now be carefully put away, the fire- places, grates, and chimneys looked to, and the house put in a thorough state of repair, so that no loose tile" may, at a future day, interfere with your comfort, and extract sometfiing considerable from your pocket. in December, the principal household duty lies in preparing for the creature comforts of those near and dear to us, so as to meet old Christmas with a happy face, a contented mind, and a full larder ; and in stoning the plums, washing the currants, catting the citron, beating the eggs, and Mixing the PuDUiNG, a housewife is not unworthily greeting the genial season of all good things.