100 MODEPvN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. time. You cannot put the whole in a large vessel, for many reasons : first_, it will be long in cooling ; secondly, when you take some out, it will break all the rest into rags. If you warm in a hain marie, the turtle will always retain the same taste; but if you boil it often, it becomes strong, and loses the delicacy of its flavour. The Cost or Turtle Soup.—This is the most expensive soup brought to table. It is sold by the quart,—one guinea being the standard price for that quantity. The price of live turtle ranges from ^d. to 2s. per lb., according to supply and demand. When live turtle is dear, many cooks use the tinned turtle, which is killed when caught, and preserved by being put in hermetically- sealed canisters, and so sent over to England. The cost of a tin, containing 2 quarts, or 4 lbs., is about £2, and for a small one, containing the green fat, 75. Qd, From these about 6 quarts of good soup may be made. The Geeen Turtle.—This reptile is found in large numbers on the coasts of all the islands and continents within the tropics, in both the* old and new worlds. Their length is often five feet and upwards, and they range in weight from 50 to 500 or 600 lbs. As ^^^^^^^^ turtles find a constant supply of food on the coasts which they ^^^^^K^^^^ frequent, they are not of a quarrelsome disposition, as the turtle is highly prized on account of the delicious quality of its flesh, the fat of the upper and lower shields of the animal being esteemed the richest and most delicate parts. The soup, however, is apt to disagree with weak stomachs. As an article of luxury, th© turtle has only come into fashion within the last 100 years, and some hundreds of tureena of turtle soup are served annually at the lord mayor's dinner in Guildhall. igo. Inghedients.—Hemains of a cold tongue, 2 lbs. of sliin of beef, any cold pieces of meat or beef-bones, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 parsnip, 1 head of celery, 4 quarts of water, i teacupful of rice; salt and pepper to taste. Mode,—Put all the ingredients in a stewpan, and simmer gently for 4 hours, or until all the goodness is drawn from the meat. Strain off the soup, and let it stand to get cold. The kernels and soft parts of the tongue must be saved. When the soup is wanted for use, skim off all the fat, put in the kernels and soft parts of the tongue, slice in a small quantity of fresh carrot, turnip, and onion; stew till the vegetables are tender, and serve with toasted bread. Time.—5 hours. Average costf Zd, per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 12 persons. THE TLT.TLE. A GOOD FAMILY SOUP.