171 FISE. 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the yolks of 6 hard-boiled eggs, puff paste. Mode.—Clean and bone the tench, skin and bone the eels, and cut thesi into pieces 2 inches long, and leave the sides of the tench whole. Put the bones into a stewpan with the onions, herbs, mace, anchovies, water, and seasoning, and let them simmer gently for 1 hour. Strain it off, put it to cool, and skim off all the fat. Lay the tench and eels in a pie-dish, and between each layer put seasoning, chopped parsley, and hard-boiled eggs; pour in part of the strained liquor, cover in with puff paste, and bake for | hour or rather more. The oven should be rather quick, and when done, heat the remainder of the liquor, which pour into the pie. TimG.—\ hour to bake, or rather more if the oven is slo .v. PISH SCALLOP. I. 350. Ingredients.—Remains of cold fish of any sort, \ pint of cream, k tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, ^ teaspoonful of made mus- tard, ditto of walnut ketchup, pepper and salt to taste (the above quantities are for i lb. of fish when picked); bread crumbs. Mode.—?xit all the ingredients into a stewpan, carefully picking the fish from the bones; set it on the fire, let it remain till nearly hot, occasionally stir the contents, but do not allow it to boil. When done, put the fish into a deep dish or scallop shell, with a good quantity of bread crumbs; place small pieces of butter on the top, set in a Dutch oven before the fire to brown, or use a salamander^ Time.—\ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold fish, lOd. II. 351. Ingeedients.—Any cold fish, 1 egg, milk, 1 large blade of pounded mace, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, pepper and salt to taste, bread crumbs, butter. ilibc/e.—Pick the fish carefully from the bones, and moisten with milk and the-egg; add the other ingredients, and place in a deep dish or scallop shells; cover with bread crumbs, batter the top, and brown before the fire; when quite hot, serve. Time.—20 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the cold fish, 4t/. WATER SOUOHY. 352. Perch, tench, soles, eels, and flounders are considered the best fish for this dish. For the souchy, put some water into a stewpan with