MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE, AND EGGS. 817 MODE OF SERVING CHEESE. 1640. The usual mode of serving cheese at good tables is to cut a small quantity of it into neat square pieces, and to put them into a glass cheese-dish, this dish being handed round. Should the cheese crumble much, of course this method is rather wasteful, and it may then be put on the table in the piece, and the host may cut from it. When served thus, the cheese must always be carefully scraped, and laid on a white d'oyley or napkin, neatly folded. Cream cheese is often served in a cheese course, and, sometimes, grated Parmesan: the latter should be put into a covered glass dish. Eusks, cheese-biscuits, pats or slices of butter, and salad, cucumber, or water-cresses, should always form part of a cheese course. Smoking Cheeses.—The Eomans smoked their cheeses, to give them a sharp taste. They possessed public places expressly for this use, and subject to police regulations which no one could evade. A celebrated gourmand remarked that a dinner without cheese is like a woman with j one eye. CHEESE SANDWICHES. 1641. Ingkedients.—Slices of brown bread-and-butter, thin slices of cheese. 3Iode.—Cut from a nice fat Cheshire, or any good rich cheese, some slices about -2- inch thick, and place them between some slices of brown bread-and-butter, like sandwiches. Place them on a plate in the oven, and, when the bread is toasted, serve on a napkin very hot and very quickly. Tmie.—10 minutes in a brisk oven. Average cost, Hd. each sandwich. Sufficient—kMo\7 a sandwich for each person. Seasonable at any time. Cheese.—One of the most important products of coagulated milk is cheese. Unfer- mented, or cream-cheese, when quite fresh, is good for subjects with whom milk does not disagree; but cheese, in its commonest shape, is only lit for sedentaiy people, as an after-dinner stimulant, and in very small quantity. Bread and cheese, as a meal, is only fit for soldiers on march or labourers in the open air, who like it because it " holds the stomach a long time." CAYEHNE CHEESES. 164*2. Ingredients.—2- lb. of butter, i lb. of flour, I lb. of grated cheese, ^ teaspoonful of cayenne, J teaspoonful of salt; water. 3fode—Uuh the butter in the flour ; add the grated cheese, cayenne and salt; and mix these ingredients well together. Moisten with sufiicient water to make the whole into a paste; roll out, and cut into 3 G