219 SAUCES; ETC. Time.—i hour. Average cost, for this quantity, lOd. Sufficient for a mo derate-sized dish. Note.—To preserve the colour of the mushrooms after pickling, throw them into water to which a little lemon-juice has been added. TO PICKLE liEMOIsTS WITH THE PEEL OIsT. 455. Ingredients.—6 lemons, 2 quarts of boiling water; to each quart of vinegar allow i oz. of cloves, i oz. of white pepper, 1 oz. of bruised ginger, J oz. of mace and chilies, 1 oz. of mustard-seed, | stick of sliced horseradish, a few cloves of garlic. Mode.—Put the lemons into a brine that will bear an egg; let them remain in it 6 days, stirring them every day; have ready 2 quarts of boiling water, put in the lemons, and allow them to boil for ^ hour ; take them out, and let them lie in a cloth until perfectly dry and cold. Boil up sufficient vinegar to cover the lemons, with all the above ingredients, allowing the same proportion as stated to each quart of vinegar. Pack the lemons in a jar, pour over the vinegar, &c. boiling hot, and tie down with a bladder. They will be fit for use in about 12 months, or rather sooner. Seasonable.—This should be made from November to April. The Lemott.—In the earlier ages of the world, the lemon does not appear to have been at all known, and the Romans only became acquainted with it at a very late period, and then only used it to keep moths from their garments. Its acidity would seem to have been unpleasant to them ; and in Pliny's time, at the commencement of the Christian era, this fruit was hardly accepted, otherwise than as an excellent anti- dote against the effects of poison. Many anecdotes have been related concerning the anti-venomous properties of the lemon; Atlienaeus, a Latin writer, telling us, that on one occasion, two men felt no eifects from the bites of dangerous serpents^j because they had previously eaten of this fruit. TO PICKLE LEMONS WITHOUT THE PEEL. 456. Ingeedients.—6 lemons, 1 lb. of fine salt; to each quart of vinegar, the same ingredients as Wo. 455. 3fode.—Peel the lemons, slit each one down 3 times, so as not to divide them, and rub the salt well into the divisions ; place them in a pan, where they must remain for a week, turning them every other day; then put them in a Dutch oven before a clear fire until the salt has become perfectly dry ; then arrange them in ajar. Pour over sufii- cient boiling vinegar to cover them, to which have been added the ingredients mentioned in the foregoing recipe ; tie down closely, and in about 9 months they will be fit for use. SeasonaUe.—The best time to make this is from November to April. Note.—After this pickle has been made from 4 to 5 months, the liquor may be strained and bottled, and will be found an excellent lemon ketchup.