51 THE CHEMISTRY AND ECONOMY OF SOUP-MAKING. into the heart, and by the action of that organ it is urged through the kings, there to receive its purification from the air which the animal inhales. Again returning to the heart, it is forced through the arteries, and thence distributed, by innumerable ramifications, called capillaries, bestowing to every part of the animal, life and nutriment. The other principle—the innutritive portion— passes from the intestines, and is thus got rid of. It will now be readily under- stood how flesh is affected for bad^ if an animal is slaughtered when the circu- lation of its blood has been increased by over-driving, ill-usage, or other causes of excitement, to such a degree of rapidity as to be too great for the capillaries to perform their functions, and causing the blood to be congealed in its minuter vessels. Where this has been the case, the meat will be dark-coioured, and become rapidly putrid ; so that self-interest and humanity alike dictate kind and gentle treatment of all animals destined to serve as food for man. THE CHEMISTRY AHD ECONOMY OP SOUP-MAKING. 96. Stock being the Basis of all meat soups, and, also, of all the principal sauces, it is essential to the success of these culinary operations, to know the most complete and economical method of extracting, from a certain quantity of meat, the best possible stock or broth. The theory and philosophy of this process we will, therefore^ explain, and then proceed to show the practical course to be adopted. 97. As ALL Meat is principally composed of fibres, fat, gelatine, osmazomcj and albumen, it is requisite to know that the fibres are inseparable, constituting almost all that remains of the meat after it has undergone a long boiling. 98. Fat is dissolved by boiling; but as it is contained in cells covered by a very fine membrane, which never dissolves, a portion of it always dheres to the fibres. The other portion rises to the surface of the stock, and is that which has escaped from the cells which were not whole, or which have burst by boiling. 99. Gelatine is soluble : it is the basis and the nutritious portion of the stock. When there is an abundance of it, it causes the stocky when cold, to become a jelly. 100. Osmazome is soluble even when cold, and is that part of the meat which gives flavour and perfume to the stock. The flesh of old animals contains more osmazome than that of young ones. Brown meats contain more than white, and the former make the stock more fragrant. By roasting meat, the osmazome appears to acquire higher properties ; so, by putting the remains of roast meats into your stock-pot, you obtain a better flavour £2