457 3fode.—Cnt the fowl into quarters, roast it until three-parts done, and keep it well basted whilst at the fire. Take the fowl up, broil it for a few minutes over a clear fire, and season it with pepper and salt. Have ready some mushroom sauce made in the following manner. Put the mushrooms into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, the ham, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and the gravy; simmer these gently for ^ hour, add the lemon-juice and sugar, dish the fowl, and pour the sauce round them. Time—To roast the fowl, 35 minutes; to broil it, 10 to 15 minutes. Average cost^ in full season, 2s. Qd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable.—In full season from May to January. The jBantaim.—No one will dispute that for beauty, animation, plumage, and eouraf^e the Bantam is entitled to rank next to the game fowl. As its name undoubtedly implies, the bird is of Asiatic origin. The choicest sorts are the butF-coloured, and those that are entirely black. A year-old "Bantam cock of pure breed wiU not weigh more than six- teen ounces. Despite its small size, however, it is marvellously bold, especially in defence of its progeny. A friend of the writer's, re- siding at Kensington, possessed a pair of thorough-bred Bantams, that were allowed the range of a yard where a fierce bull-terrier was kennelled. The hen had chicks; and, when about three weeks old, one of them strayed into the dog-kennel. The grin baast within took no notice of the t'ny fiedf,eing; but, when the anxious mother ventured in to fetch out the truant, with a growl the dog woke, and nearly snapped her asunder in his great jaws. The cock bii'd saw the tragic fate of its partner; but, nothing daunted, flew at the dog with a fierce cry, and pecked savagely at its face. The odds, however, were too great; and, when the tenner had sufficiently recovered from the astonishment caused by the sudden and unexpected attack, he seized the audacious Bantam, and sbook him to death ^ and, in five minutes, the devoted couple were entombed in Finelier's capacious maw. black; bantams. BOILED FOWL AND BICE. 940. Ikgeedients.—1 fowl, mutton broth, 2 onions, 2 small blades of pounded mace, pepper and salt to taste, | pint of rice, parsley and butter. Mode,—Truss the fowl as for boiling, and put it into a stewpan with sufficient clear well-skimmed mutton broth to cover it; add the onion, mace, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; stew very gently for about 1 hour, should the fowl be large, and about i hour before it is ready put in the rice, which should be well washed and soaked. When the latter is tender, strain it from the liquor, and put it on a sieve reversed to dry before the fire, and, in the mean time, keep the fowl hot. Dish it, put the rice round as a border, pour a little parsley and butter over the fowl, and the remainder send to table in a tureen.