6G9 rUDDlNGS AND PASTRY. -used as au antidote to the maclilneel poison. The candied peel is prepared in tlie same manner as orange or lemon-pcel; that is to say, the peel is boiled in water until quite soft, and then susi^ended in concentrated syrup (in the cold), after which it is either dried in a current of warm air, or in a stove, at a heat not exceeding 120° Fahrenheit. The syrup must be kept fully saturated with sugar by reboiling it once or twice during the process. It may be dusted with powdered lump sugar, if necessary. The citron is supposed to be the Median, Assyrian, or Persian apple of the Greeks. It is described by Eisso as having a majestic appearance, its shining leaves and rosy flowers being succeeded by fruit whose beauty and size astonish the observer, whilst their odour gratifies his senses. In China there is an enormous variety, but the citron is cultivated in all orange-gro\\ing countries. PLUM-PUDDING OP FRESH FRUIT. 1330. Ingredients.—I lb. of suet crust No. 1215, l\ pint of Orleans or any other kind of plum, \ lb. of moist sugar. J/otZe.—Line a pudding:-basin with suet crust rolled out to the thickness of about i inch; fill the basin with the fruit, put in the sugar, and cover with crust. Fold the edges over, and pinch them together, to prevent the juice escaping. Tie over a floured cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil from 2 to 2k hours. Turn it •out of the basin, and serve quickly. Time—2 to 2^- hours. Average cost, lOcL Sufficient for G or 7 persons. Seasonable, with various kinds of plums, from the beginning of August to the beginning of October. Plums.—Almost all the varieties of the cultivated plum are agreeable and refreshing: it is not a nourishing fruit, and if indulged in to excess, when unripe, is almost certain to cause diarrhoea and cholera. Weak and delicate persons had better abstain from plums altogether. The modes of preparing plums are as numerous as the varieties of the fruit. The objections raised against raw plums do not apply to the cooked fruit, ■which even the invalid may eat in moderation. plum. PLUM TAUT. 1331. Ingeedients.—^ lb. of good short crust !N"o. 1211, l^- pint of plums, J lb. of moist sugar. 3Iode.—Line the edges of a deep tart-dish with crust made by recipe No. 1211; fill the dish with plums, and place a small cup or jar, upside down, in the midst of them. Put in the sugar, cover the pie with crust, ornament the edges, and bake in a good oven from i to I hour. Y/hen puff-crust is pre- ferred to short crust, use that made by recipe No. 1206, and glaze the top by brushing it over with the white