MODEIIN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 663 Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter. will keep good for many weeks, and in cases where unexpected guests arrive, will bo found an acceptable, and, as it only requires warming through, a quickly-prepared dish. Moulds of every shape and size are manufactured for these puddings, and may be purchased of Messrs. R. & J. Slack, 33C, Strand. Brandt is the alcoholic or spirituous portion of wine, separated from the aqueous part, the colouring matter, &c., by distillation. The word is of German origin, and in its German form, brantwein, signiiies burnt Avine, or wine that has undergone the action of fire; brandies, so called, however, have been made from potatoes, carrots, beetroot, IDCars, and other vegetable substances; but they are all inferior to true brandy. Brandy is prepared in most wine countries, but that of France is the most esteemed. It is procured not only by distilling the wine itself, but also by fermenting and distilling the ware, or residue of the pressings of the grape. It is procured indiflerently from red or white wine, and different wines yield very different proportions of it, the strongest, of course, giving the largest quantity. Brandy obtained from marc has a more acrid taste than that from wine. The celebrated brandy of Cognac, a town in the depart- ment of Charente, and that brought from Andraye, seem to owe their excellence from being made from white wine. Like other spirit, brandy is colourless when recently distilled; by mere keeping, however, owing, probably, to some change in the soluble matter contained in it, it acquires a slight colour, which is much increased by keeping in casks, and is made of the required intensity by the addition of burnt sugar or other colouring matter. What is called British brandy is not, in fact, brandy, which is the name, as we have said, of a spirit distilled from tvine; but is a spirit made chiefly from malt spirit, with the addition of mineral acids and various flavouring ingredients, the exact composition being kept secret. It is distilled somewhat extensively in this country; real brandy scarcely at all. The brandies imported into England are chiefly from Bordeaux, Kochelle, and Cognac, A POUND PLUM-PUDDING. 1329. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of suet, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 8 eggs, i grated nutmeg, 2 oz. of sliced candied peel, 1 tea- spoonful of ground ginger, l lb. of bread crumbs, J lb. of flour, \ pint of milk. Jibc/^.—Chop the suet finely; mix with it the dry ingredients; stir these well together, and add the well- beaten eggs and milk to moisten with. Beat up the mixture well, and should the above proportion of milk not be found sufficient to make it of the proper consistency, a little more should bo added. Press the pudding into a mould' tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for 5 hours, or rather longer, and serve with brandy-sauce. Average cost, ds. JVote.—The above pudding may be baked instead of boiled; it sbould be put into a buttered mould or tin, and baked for about 2 hours ; a smaller ono would take about 1^ hour. CiTEON.—The fruit of the citron-tree (Citrus medico) is acidulous, antiseptic, and anti- scorbutic : it excites the appetite, and stops vomiting, and, like lemon-juice, has heen greatly extolled in chronic rheumatism, gout, and scurvy. Mixed with cordials, it is BAKED PT7DDI1TG- OE CAKE-MOULD. Time,—'5 hours, or longer.