606 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 1176. The Habits of a People, to a great extent, are formed by the climate in which they live, and by the native or cultivated productions in which their country abounds. Thus we find that the agricultural produce of the ancient Egyptians is pretty much the same as that of the present day, and the habits of the peoiDle are not materially altered. In Greece, the products cultivated in antiquity were the same kinds of grains and legumes as are cultivated at present, with the vine, the fig, the olive, the apple, and other fruits. So with the Komans, and so with other nations. As to the different modes of artificially preparing these to please the "taste, it is only necessary to say that they arise from the universal desire of novelty, charac- teristic of man in the development ol his social conditions. Thus has arisen the whole science of cookery, and thus arose the art of making puddings. The porridge of the Scotch is nothing more than a siDccies of hasty pudding, composed of oatmeal, salt, and water ; and the '' red pottage " for which Esau sold his birthright, must have been something similar. The "barley-gruel of the Lacedaemonians, of the Athenian gladiators and common people, \^as the same, wit'h the exception of the slight seasoning it had beyond the simplicity of Scottish fare. Here is the ancient recipe for the Athenian national dish Dry near the fire, in the oven, twenty pounds of barley-flour; then parch it; add three pounds of linseed-meal, half a pound of coriander-seed, two ounces of salt, and the quantity of water necessary." To this sometimes a little millet was added, in order to give the paste greater cohesion and delicacy. 1177. Oatmeal AMONGST the Greeks and Eomans was highly esteemed, as was also rice, which they considered as beneficial to the chest. They also held in high repute the Irion, or Indian wheat of the moderns. The flour of this cereal was made into a kind of hasty pudding, and, parched or roasted, was eaten with a little salt. The Spelt, or Ked wheat, was likewise esteemed, and its flour formed the basis of the Carthaginian pudding, for which we here give the scientific recipe :—"Put a pound of red-wheat flour into water, and when it has steeped some time, transfer it to a wooden bowl. Add three pounds of cream cheese, half a pound of honey, and one egg. Beat the whole together, and cook it on a slow fire in a stewpan." Should this be considered unpalatable, another form has been recommended. *'Sift the flour, and, with some water, l^ut it into a wooden vessel, and, for ten days, renew the water twice eaoh day. At the end of that period, press out the water and place the paste in another vessel. It is now to be reduced to the consistence of thick lees, and passed through a piece of new linen. Eepeat this last operation, then dry the mass in the sun and boil it in milk. Season according to taste." These are specimens of the puddings 01 antiquity, and this last recipe vras held in especial favour by the Romans. 1178. However great may have been the qualifications of the ancients, however, in the art of pudding-making, we apprehend that such preparations as gave gratification to their palates, would have genertiUy foimd