41 INTRODUCTION TO COOKERY. complicated portions of liis art, and such as are nob usually understood by ordinary professors. He, therefore, holds a high position in a household, being inferior in rank, as already shown (21), only to the house steward, the valet, and the butler. In the luxurious ages of Grecian antiquity, Sicilian cooks were the most esteemed, and received high rewards for their services. Among them, one called Trimalcio was such an adept in his art, that he could impart to common fish both the form and flavour of the most esteemed of the piscatory tribes. A chief cook in the palmy days of Eomaii voluptuousness had about £800 a year, and Antony rewarded the one that cooked the supper which pleased Cleopatra, with the present of a city. With the fall of the empire, the culinary art sank into less consideration. In the middle ages, cooks laboured to acquire a reputation for their sauces, which they composed of strange combinations, for the sake of novelty, as well as singularity, 79. The Duties of the Cook, thiI Kitchen and the Scullery Maids, are so intimately associated, that they can hardly be treated of separately. The cook, how^ever, is at the head of the kitchen; and in proportion to her IDossession of the qualities of cleanliness, neatness, order, regularity, and celerity of action, so will her influence appear in the conduct of those who are under her; as it is upon her that the whole responsibility of the business of the kitchen rests, w^hilst the others must lend her, both a ready and a willing assistance, and bo especially tidy ia their appearance, and active in their movements. In the larger estabhshments of the middle ages, cooks, with the authority of feudal chiefs, gave their orders from a high chair in which they ensconced themselves, and commanded a view of all that was going on throughout their several domains. Each held a long wooden spoon, with which he tasted, without leaving his seat, the various comestibles that were cooking on the stoves, and which he frequently used as a rod of punishment on the backs of those whose idleness and gluttony too largely predominated over their diligence and temperance, 80. If, as we have said (3), the Quality of Early Rising be of the first importance to the mistress, w^hat must it be to the servant! Let it, therefore, be taken as a long-proved truism, that without it, in every domestic, the effect of all things else, so far as ivorh is concerned, may, in a great measure, be neutralized. In a cook, this quality is most essential; for an hour lost in tho morning, will keep her toiling, absolutely toihng, all day, to overtake that which might otherwise have been achieved with ease. In large establishments, six is a good hour to rise in the summer, and seven in the winter. 8t. Her First Duty, in large establishments and where it is requisite, should be to set her dough for the breakfast rolls, provided this has not been done on the previous night, and then to engage herself with those numerous little preliminary occupations which may not inappropriately be termed laying out her duties for the day. This will bring in the breakfast hour of eight, after which, directions must be given, and preparations made, for the different dinners of the household and family. 82. In those numerous households where a cook and housemaid are only kept, the general custom is, that the cook should have the charge of the