734 eiod?:p.x uouskhold cooKzr.Y. Jlcde.—^linee the liain very finely, without any fat, and fry it for 2 minutes in a little butter; then make the batter for the omelet, stir in the ham, and proceed as directed in recipe No. 1456. Do not add any s'^h to the batter, as the ham is usually sufficiently salt to impart a flavour to the omelet. Good lean bacon, or tongue, answers equally well for this dish; but they must also be slightly cooked previously to mixing them with the batter. Serve very hot and quickly, without gravy. Time.—From 4 to 6 minutes. Average cost, Is, Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonahle at any time. EIDITB-S- OMELET. (^4 favourite French cluh.) 1458. Ii'GEEDiSNTS.—6 eggs, 1 saltspoonful of salt, i saltspoonful of pepper, 2 sheep's kidneys, or 2 tablespoonfuls of minced veal kidney, 5 QZ. of butter. Mode.—Skin the kidneys, cut them into small dice, and toss them in a frying-pan, in i oz. of butter, over the fire for 2 or 3 minutes. Mix the ingredients for the omelet the same as in recipe xso. 1456, and when the eggs are well whisked, stir in the pieces of kidney. Make the butter hot in the oiiELET-PAir. frying-pan, and when it bubbles, pour in the omelet, and fry it over a gentle fire from 4 to 6 minutes. When the eggs are set, fold the edges over, so that the omelet assumes an oval form, and be careful that it is not too much done: to brown the top, hold the pan before the fire for a minute or two, or use a salamander until the desired colour is obtained, but never turn an omelet in the pan. Slip it carefully on to a very hot dish, or, what is a much safer method, put a dish on the omelet, and turn the pan quickly over. It should be served the instant it comes from the fire Time,—4 to 6 minutes. Average cost^ \s. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonahle at any time. TO MAKE A PLAIN SWEET OMELET. M59. I:>geedie:>ts.—8 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sifted sugar. i^/oa'e.—Break the eggs into a basin, omitting the whites of 3; whisk them well, adding the sugar and 2 oz. of the butter, which should be broken into small pieces, and stir all these ingredients well together. Make the rcmaicder of the butter quite hot in a small frying- pan, and when it commences to bubble, pour in the eggs, &c. Keep stiiTing them until they begin to set; then turn the edges of the