MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 538 Time.—When liked underdone, 15 to 20 minutes; if liked weli done, allow an extra 5 minutes. Average cost.—Seldom bought. Siffficietit,—2 for a dish. Seasonable from November to February. The Woodcock—This bird being migratorj-in its habits, has, consequently, no settled habitation; it cannot be consideied as the property of any one, and is, therefore, not game by law. It breeds in high northern lati- tudes, and the time of its appe ranee and dis- appearance in Sweden coincid-s exactly with that of its arrival in and return from Great Britain. On the coast of Suffolk its vernal and autumnal visits have been accurately observed. In the first week of October it makes its appear- ance in small numbers, but in November and December it appears in larger numbers, and always after sunset, and most gregai'iously. In the same manner as woodcocks take their leave of us, they quit France, Germany, and Italy, making the northern and colder climates their summer rendezvous. They visit Burgundy in the latter part of October, but continue there only a few weeks, the country being hard, and unable to supply them with such sustenance as they require. In the vdnter, they are found as far south as Smyrna and Aleppo, and, during the same season, in Barbary, wliere the Africans name them " the ass of the partridge." It has been asserted that thoy have been seen as far south as Egypt, which is the most remote region to which they can be traced on that side of the eastern world ; on the other side, they are common in Japan. Those which resort to the countries of the Levant are supposed to come from the moun- tains of Armenia, or the deserts of Tartary or Siberia. The flesh of the woodcock is held in high estimation ; hence the bii'd is eagerly sought after by the sportsman. THE woodcock:. GAME CAEVING. blackcoce:. 1054. Skilful carving of game undoubtedly adds to the pleasure of the guests at a dinner-table; for game seems pre-eminently to be composed of such delicate limbs and tender flesh that an inapt prac- titioner appears to more disadvantage when mauling these pretty and favourite dishes, than larger and more robust pieces de resistance. As described at recipe ISTo, 1019, this bird is variously served with or without the head on ; and although we do not personally object to the appearance of the head as shown in the woodcut, yet it seems to be more in vogue to serve it without. The carving is not difficult, but should be elegantly and deftly done. Slices from the breast, cut in the direction of the dotted line from 2 to 1, should be taken off, the merrythought dis- placed, and the leg and wing removed by running the knife along from 3 to 4, and following the directions given under the head of boiled