MODEHN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. strain the soup. Mix the rice-iloiir witli the ketchup, thicken the soup with it, and simmer for 5 minutes. K"ow cut up the head into pieces about two inches long-, and simmer them in the soup till the meat and fat are quite tender. Season with white pepper and mace finely pounded, and serve very hot. When the calf's head is taken out of the soup, cover it up, or it will discolour. Time.—2^ hours. Average cosfy Is. 9d. per quart, with stock No. 107. Seasonable from May to October. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—Force-meat balls can be added, and the soup may be flavoured with a little lemon-juice, or a glass of sherry or Madeira. The bones from the head may be stewed down again, with a few fresh vegetables, and it will make a very good common stock. GIBLET SOUP. 168. Ingeedients.—3 sets of goose or duck giblets, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, a few bones, 1 ox-tail, 2 mutton-shanks, 2 large onions, 2 carrots, 1 large faggot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, \ pint of cream, 1 oz. of butter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour, 3 quarts of water. Ilode.—Scald the giblets, cut the gizzards in 8 pieces, and put them in a stewpan with the beef, bones, ox-tail, mutton-shanks, onions, herbs, pepper, and salt; add the 3 quarts of water, and simmer till the giblets are tender, taking care to skim well. When the gib- lets are done, take them out, put them in your tureen, strain the soup through a sieve, add the cream and butter, mixed with a dessert- spoonful of flour, boil it up a few minutes, and pour it over the gib- lets. It can be flavoured with port wine and a little mushroom ketchup, instead of cream. Add salt to taste. Time.—3 hours. Average costf 9d. per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 10 persons. GBAVY SOUP. 169. Ii^-GREDiEKTS.—6 lbs. of shin of beef, a knuckle of veal weigh- ing 5 lbs., a few pieces or trimmings, 2 slices of nicely-flavoured lean ham; ^ lb. of butter, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, nearly a head of celery, 1 blade of mace, 6 cloves, a bunch of savoury herbs, with endive, seasoning of salt and pepper to taste, 3 lumps of sugar, 5 quarts of boiling soft water. It can be flavoured with ketchup, Leamington sauce {see Sauces), Harvey*s sauce, and a little soy. Jfoc?^.—Slightly brown the meat and ham in the butter, but do not