200 SAUCES, ETC. A GOOD BEEF GBAVY FOR POULTIIT, GAME, &c. 435. iNGiiEDiENTS.—2- lb. of lean beef, | pint of cold water, 1 slialot or small onion, f a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce or mushroom ketchup, j a teaspoonful of arrowroot. 3Iode.—Cut up the beef into small pieces, and put it, with the water, into a stewpan. Add the shalot and seasoning", and simmer gently for 3 hours, taking care that it does not boil fast. A short time before it is required, take the arrowroot, and having mixed it with a little cold water, pour it into the gravy, which keep stirring, adding the Harvey's sauce, and just letting it boil. Strain off the grayy in a tureen, and serve very hot. 2vme.—3 hours. Average cost^ Sd. per pint. BBOWIT GBAVT. 436. Ingeedieitts.—2 oz. of butter, 2 large onions, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, 2 small slices of lean bacon (if at hand), salt and whole pe'pper to taste, 3 cloves, 2 quarts of water. For thickening, 2 oz. of butter, 3 oz. of flour. % Ifode.—Put the butter into a stewpan; set this on the fire, throw in the onions cut in rings, and fry them a light brown; then add the beef and bacon, which should be cut into small square pieces ; season, and pour in a teacupful of water ; let it boil for about ten minutes, or until it is of a nice brown colour, occasionally stirring the contents. Isow fill up with water in the above proportion ; let it boil up, when drav/ it to the side of the fire to simmer very gently for l| hour; strain, and when cold, take off all the fat. In thickening this gravy, melt 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add 2 oz. of flour, and stir till of a light-brown colour; when cold, add it to the strained gravy, and boil it up quickly. This thickening may be made in larger quantities, and kept in a stone jar for use when wanted. Time.—Altogether, 2 hours. A verage cost, id. per pint. Cloves.—This very agreeable spice is the uuexpanded flower-buds of the CaryopliyUns nromaticus, a handsome branching tree, a native of the Malacca Islands. They take their name from the Latin word davus, or the French clou, both meaning a nail, and to which the clove has a considerable resemblance. Cloves were but little known to the ancients, and Pliny appears to be the only writer who mentions them; and he says, vaguely enough, that some were brought to Eome, veiy similar to grains of pepper, but som-cvvhat longer ; that they were only to be found in India, in a wood consecrated to the gods ; and that they served in the nmnufacture of perfumes. The Dutch, as in the case of the nutmeg (see 378), endeavoured, when they gained possession of the Spice Islands, to securo a monopoly of cloves, and, so that the cultivation of the tree might be confined to Amboyna, their chief island, bribed the surrounding chiefs to cut down all trees found elsewhere. The Amboyna, or royal clove, is said to be the best, and is rare ; bu t other kinds, nearly equally good, are jDi'oduced in other parts of the world, and they como to Europe from Mauritius, Bourbon, Cayenne, and Martinique, as also from St. Kilts, P