THE DOCTOE. CHAPTER XLIII. ^578. " Time," according to the old proverb, " is 'money and it may also, in many cases, and with equal truthfulness, be said to be life ; for a few moments, in great emergencies, often turn the balance between recovery and death. This apiDlies more especially to all kinds of poisoning, fits, submer- sion in water, or exposure to noxious gases ; and many accidents. If people linew how to act during the interval that must necessarily elapse from the moment that a medical man is sent for until he arrives, many lives might bo saved, which now, unhappily, are lost. Generally speaking, however, nothing- is done—all is confusion and fright; and the surgeon, on his arrival, finds that death has already seized its victim, who, had his friends but known a few rough rules for their guidance, might have been rescued. We shall, therefore, in a series of papers, give such information as to the means to bo employed in event of accidents, injuries, &c., as, by the aid of a gentleman of large professional experience, we are warranted in recommending. List of Drugs, &c., necessary to carry out all Instructions. 2579. We append at once A List of Drugs, &c., and a few Prescriptions necessary to carry out all the instructions given in this series of articles. It will be seen that they are few—they are not expensive ; and by laying in a little stock of them, our instructions will be of instant value in all cases of accident, &c.—The drugs are—Antimonial Wine. Antimonial Powder. Blister Compound. Blue Pill. Calomel. Carbonate of Potash. Compound Iron Pills. Compound Extract of Colocyntb. Compound Tincture of Cam- phor. Epsom Salts. Goulard's Extract. Jalap in Powder. Linseed Oil. Myrrh and Aloes Pills. Nitre. Oil of Turpentine. Opium, powdered, and Laudanum. Sal Ammoniac. Senna Leaves. Soap Liniment, Opodeldoc. Sweet Spirits of Nitre. Turner's Cerate.—To which should be added : Com- mon Adhesive Plaster. Isinglass Plaster. Lint. A pair of small Scales with Weights. An ounce and a drachm Measure-glass. A Lancet, A Probe. A pair of Forceps, and some curved Needles. 2580. The following Prescriptions may be made up for a few shillings ; and, by keeping them properly labelled, and by referring to the remarks on