205 SAUCES, ETC. pour it, quite per, &c., in the above proportion, for 10 minutes; boiling", over the gherkins, cover the jar with vine-leaves, and put over them a plate, setting them near the fire, where they must remain all night. Next day drain off the vinegar, boil it up again, and pour it hot over them. Cover up with fresh leaves, and let the whole remain till quite cold. E"ow tie down closely with bladder to exclude the air, and in a month or two, they will be fit for use. Time.—4 days. Seasonable from the middle of July to the end of August. Gheukins.—Gherkins are young cucumbers; and the only way in which they are used for cooking purposes is Gheekin^S pickling them, as by the recipe here given. Not having arrived at maturity, they have not, of course, so strongly a developed flavour as cucumbers, and, as a pickle, they are very general favourites. GOOSEBEHRY SAUCE FOB BOILED MACKEBEL. 429. Ingredients.—1 pint of green gooseberries, 3 tablespoonfuls of Bechamel, No. 3G7 (veal gravy may be substituted for this), 2 oz. of fresh butter; seasoning to taste of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mode.—Boil the gooseberries in water until quite tender; strain them, and rub them through a sieve. Put into a saucepan the Bechamel or gravy, with the butter and seasoning ; add the pulp from the gooseberries, mix all v/ell together, and heat gradually through. A little pounded sugar added to this sauce is by many persons con- sidered an improvement, as the saccharine matter takes off the extreme acidity of the unripe fruit. Ti7ne.—Boil the gooseberries from 20 minutes to -J hour. Sufficient, this quantity, for a large dish of mackerel. SeasonoMe from May to July. The Goosebeest.—This useful and wholesome fruit (Hibes p'ossiilaria) is thought to be indigenous to the British Isles, and may be occasionally found in a wild state in some of the eastern counties, although, when unculti- vated, it is but a very small and inferior berry. The high state of perfection to which it has been here brought, is due to the skill of the English gardeners; for in no other country does it attain the same size and flavour. The humidity of the British climate, however, has doubtless something to do with the result; and it is said that gooseberries produced in Scotland as far north as Inverness, are of a very superior character. Malic and citric ncid blended with sugar, pro- duce the pleasant flavour of the gooseberry; and upon the proper development of these xjroperties depends the success of all cooking operations with which they are connected. THE GOOSESBKar.