903 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. company to regulato the drinking ; and it was his duty to mix tlie wine in the mighty bowl." From this bowl the attendants ladled the liquor into goblets, and, with the goblets, went round and round the tables, filling the cups of the guests. 1884. The elegance with which a dinner is served is a matter which depends, of course, partly upon the means, but still more upon the taste of the master and mistress of the house. It may be observed, in general, that there should always be flowers on the table, and as they form no item of expense, there is no reason why they should not be employed every day. 1885. The variety in the dishes which furnish forth a modern dinner-table, does not necessarily imjoly anything unwholesome, or anything capricious. Food that is not well relished cannot be well digested ; and the appetite of tte over-worked man of business, or statesman, or of any dweller in tov/ns, whose occupations are exciting and exhausting, is jaded, and requires stimulation. I^Ien and women who are in rude health, and who have plenty of air and exer- cise, eat the simplest food with relish, and consequently digest it well; but those conditions are out of the reach of many men. They must suit their mode of dining to their mode of living, if they cannot choose the latter. It is in serving up food that is at once appetizing and wholesome that the skill of the modern housewife is severely tasked; and she has scarcely a more important duty to fulfil. It is, in fact, her particular vocation, in virtue of which she may be said to hold the health of the family, and of the friends of the family, in her hands from day to day. It has been said that '^the destiny of nations depends on the manner in which they are fed and a great gastronomist exclaims, *'Tell me what kind of food you eat, and I will tell you what kind of man you are." The same writer has some sentences of the same kind, which are rather hyper- bolical, but worth quoting :—" The pleasures of the table belong to all ages, to all conditions, to all countries, and to all eras; they mingle with all other pleasures, and remain, at last, to console us for their departure. The dis- covery of a new dish confers more happiness upon humanity than the discovery of a new star." 1886. The gastronomist from whom we have already quoted, has some apho- risms and short directions in relation to dinner-parties, which are well deserving of notice :—''Let the number of your guests never exceed twelve, so that tho conversation may be general.* Let the temperature of the dining-room b© about 68°. Let the dishes be few in number in the first course, but propor- tionally good. The order of food is from the most substantial to the lightest. The order of drinking wine is from the mildest to tho most foamy and most perfumed. To invite a person to your house is to take charge of his happiness so long as he is beneath your roof. The mistress of the house should always be certain that the coffee be excellent; whilst the master should be answerable for the quality of his wines and liqueurs." * We have seen this varied by saying tliat the number should never exceed that of tli© Muses or fall below that of the Graces.