MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 252 mace, salt and cayenne to taste, i pint of gravy, No. 436, or stock No. 104. Mode.—Cut the tomatoes in two, and squeeze the juice and seeds out; put them in a stewpan with all the ingredients, and let them simmer ge7itlt/ until the tomatoes are tender enough to pulp ; rub the whole through a sieve, boil it for a few minutes, and serve. The shalots and spices may be omitted when their flavour is objected to. Time,—I hour, or rather more, to simmer the tomatoes. Average cost^ for this quantity, is. In full season in September and October. Tomato, oe Love-Apple.—The plant which bears this fruit is a native of South America, and takes its name from a Portuguese word. The tomato fruit is about the size of a small potato, and is chiefly used in soups, sauces, and gravies. THE TOMATO. It is sometimes served to table roasted or boiled, and when green, makes a good ketchup or pickle. In its unripe state, it is esteemed as excellent sauce for roast goose or pork, and when quite ripe, a good store sauce may be prepared from it. TOMATO SAUCE FOB KEEPING (Excellent). I. 530. I^^^GEEDIENTS.—To every quart of tomato-pulp allow 1 pint of cayenne vinegar (No. 386), % oz. of shalots, } oz. of garlic, peeled and cut in slices; salt to taste. To every six quarts of liquor, 1 pint of soy, 1 pint of anchovy sauce. ilfot7e.—Gather the tomatoes quite ripe ; bake them in a slow oven till tender; rub them through a sieve, and to every quart of pulp add cayenne vinegar, shalots, garlic, and salt, in the above proportion; boil the whole together till the garlic and shalots are quite soft; then rub it through a sieve, put it again into a saucepan, and, to every six quarts of the liquor, add 1 pint of soy and the same quantity of anchovy sauce, and boil altogether for about 20 minutes; bottle off for use, and carefully seal or rosin the corks. This will keep good for 2 or 3 years, but will be fit for use in a week. A useful and less expensive sauce may be made by omitting the anchovy and soy. JVme.—Altogether 1 hour. Seasonable.—Make this from the middle of September to the end of October. II. 63^. Ingeei>ients.—1 dozen tomatoes, 2 teaspoonfuls of the best powdered ginger, 1 dessertspoonful of salt, 1 head of garlic chopped