282 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. which can be procured from the beginning of September to Christmas. 2 or 3 "whicli sometimes goes by tlie name of Indian cress, came originaKy from Peru, but ■was easily made to grow in these islands. Its young leaves and flowers are of a slightly hot nature, and many consider them a good adjunct to salads, to which they certainly add a pretty appearance. When the beautiful blossoms, which may be employed with great eiFect in garnishing dishes, are off, then the fruit is used as described in the above recipe. PBEl^CH Ol^lCN SAUClil, or SOUBISS. 483. Inghediej^-ts.—l- pint of Bechamel, Ko. 367, 1 bay-leaf, seasoning to taste of pounded mace and cayenne, 6 onions, a small piece of ham. Mode.—Peel the onions and cut them in halves; put them in a stewpan, with just sufficient water to cover them, and add the bay- leaf, ham, cayenne, and mace ; be careful to keep the lid closely shut, and simmer them until tender. Take them out and drain tho- roug-hly; rub them through a tammy or sieve (an old one does for the purpose) with a wooden spoon, and put them to i pint of Bechamel; keep stirring over the fire until it boils, when serve. If it should require any more seasoning, add it to taste. Time.—f hour to boil the onions. Average cost^ \0d. for this quantity. Sufficient for a moderate-sized dish. WHITE OmOH- SAIJGS, for Boiled Babbits, Boast Shoulder of Mutton, &c. 484. Ingredieitts.— 9 large onions, or 12 middling-sized ones, 1 pint of melted butter made with milk (K"o. 380), \ teaspoonful of salt, or rather more. Mode.—Peel the onions and put them into water to which a little salt has been added, to preserve their whiteness, and let them remain for 5 hour. Then put them in a stewpan, cover them with water, and let them boil until tender, and, if the onions should be very strong, change the water after they have been boiling for | hour. Drain them thoroughly, chop them, and rub them through a tammy or sieve. Make 1 pint of melted butter, by recipe No. 380, and when that boils, put in the onions, with a seasoning of salt; stir it till it simmers, when it will be ready to serve. If these directions are carefully attended to, this onion sauce will be delicious. Time.—From f to 1 hour, to boil the onions. Avei^age cost, 9d. per pint. Sufficient to serve with a roast shoulder of mutton, or boiled rabbit. Seasonable from August to March. Note.—To make this sauce very mild and delicate, use Spanish onions,