MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 523 finely with a little beef, l(xvd, a few truffles^ pepper and salt to taste, and stuff the iDlicasant carefully with this. Cut a slice of bread, larger consider- ably than the bird, and cover it with the liver, &c., and a few truffles : an anchovy and a little fresh butter added to these will do no harm. Put the bread, &c., into the dripping-pan, and, when the bird is roasted, place it on the preparation, and surround it with Florida oranges. Do not be uneasy, Savarin adds, about your dinner; for a pheasant served in this way is fit for beings better than men. The pheasant itself is a xery good bird; and, imbibing the dressing and the flavour of the truffle and snii30, it becomes thrice better. BBOILED PHSASArTT (a Breakfast or Luncheon Dish). 1043. Ingeedie:n'ts.—1 pheasant, a little lard, egg and bread crumbs, salt and cayenne to taste. llode.—Cat the legs ofr at the first joint, and the remainder of the bird into neat pieces; put them into a fryingpan with a little lard, and when browned on both sides, and about half done, take them out and drain them; brush the pieces over with egg, and sprinkle with bread crumbs with which has been mixed a good seasoning of cayenne and salt. Broil them over a moderate fire for about 10 minutes, or rather longer, and serve with mushroom-sauce, sauce piquante, or brown gravy, in which a few game-bones and trimmings have been stewed. Ttjne.—Altogether | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from the 1st of October to the beginning of February. The Height of Excellence in a Pheasant.—Things edible have tlieir degrees of excellence under various civcumstauces : thus, asparagus, capers, peas, and partridges are best when young. Perfection in others is only reached when they attain maturity: let us say, for example, melons and nearly all fruits (we must except, perhaps, tno medlar), with the majority of those animals whose flesji we eat. But others, again, arc not good until decomposition is about to set in; and here we may mention particularly the snipe and the pheasant. If the latter bird be eaten so soon as three days after it has been killed, it then has no peculiarity of flavour; a pullet would be more relished, and a quail would surpass it in aroma. Kept, however, a proper length of time,—and tliis can be ascertained by a slight smell and change of colour,—then it becomes a highly- flavoured dish, occupying, so to speak, the middle distance between chicken and venison. It is difficult to deiine any exact time to hang " a pheasant; but an}' one possessed of the instincts of gastronomical science,^ can at once detect the right moment when a pheasant should be taken down, in the same way as a good cook knows whether a bird should be removed from the spitj or have a turn or two more. TO DBSSS PLOVEB3. 1044. IifGEEDiEXTS.—-3 plovers, butter, flour, toasted bread. Choosing and Trussing.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, as that shows their fatness. There are three sorts,—the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. They will keep good for some time, but if very stale, the feet will be very dry. Plovers are scarcely tit for anything but roasting; they are, however, sometimes stewed, or