07 MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME SOUPS. peas, 4 turnips, 8 potatoes, 2 onions, 2 oz. of oatmeal or 3 oz. of rice, 2 quarts of water. 3fode.—Cut the meat in small pieces, as also the vegetables, and add them, with the peas, to the water. Boil gently for 3 hours ; thicken with the oatmeal, boil for another I hour, stirring all the time, and season with pepper and salt. Time.—Zl hours. Average cost^ id. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—This soup may be made of the liquor in which tripe has been boiled, by adding vegetables, seasoning, rice, &c. TURKEY SOUP (a Seasonable Dish at Christmas). 188. Ingeedients.—2 quarts of medium stock, No. 105, the remains of a cold roast turkey, 2 oz. of rice-flour or arrowroot, salt and pepper to taste, 1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce or mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Qxit up the turkey in small pieces, and put it in the stock; let it simmer slowly until the bones are quite clean. Take the bones out, and work the soup through a sieve ; when cool, skim well. Mix the rice-flour or arrowroot to a batter with a little of the soup ; add it with the seasoning and sauce, or ketchup. Give one boil, and serve. Ttme.—4: hours. Average costf lOd. per quart. Seasonable at Christmas. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—Instead of thickening this soup, vermicelli or macaroni may be served in it. The Turkey.—The common turkey is a native of Korth America, and was thence introduced to England, in the reign of Henry VIII. According to Tusser's *' Five Hundred Points of Good Husbandry," about the year 1585 it began to form a dish at our rural Christmas feasts. " Beef, mutton, and pork, shred pies of the best, Pig, veal, goose, and capon, and turkey well dress'd, Cheese, apples, and nuts, joUy carols to hear, As then in the country is counted good cheer." It is one of the most difficult birds to rear, of any that we have; yet, in its wild state, is found in great abundance in the forests of Canada, where, it might have been imagined that the severity of the chmate would be unfavourable to its ever becoming plentiful. They are very fond of the seeds of nettles, and the seeds of the foxglove poison them, TUBTLE SOUP (founded on M. Ude's KoQipe). 189. Ingeedients.—A turtle, 6 slices of ham, 2 knuckles of veal, 1 large bunch of sweet herbs, 3 bay-leaves, parsley, green onions, 1 onion, 6 cloves, 4 blades of mace, i lb. of fresh butter, 1 bottle of Madeira, 1 lump of sugar. For the Quenelles d Tortue, 1 lb. of veal, 1 lb. of bread crumbs, milk, 7 eggs, cayenne, salt, spices, chopped parsley, the juice of 2 lemons. n