BEVERAGES. 879 place, to ascertain whether it depends on sensual and sinful inclinations merel}^ that every people of the globe have appropriated some such means of acting on the nervous life, from the shore of the Pacific, where the Indian retires from hfe for days in order to enjoy the bliss of intoxication with koko, to the Arctic regions, where Kamtsehnt- dales and Koriakes prepare an intoxicating beverage from a poisonous mushroom. We think it, on the contrary, highly probable, not to say certain, that the instinct of man, feehng certain blanks, certain wants of the intensified life of our times, which cannot bo satisfied or filled up by mere quantity, has discovered, in these products of vegetable life the true means of giving to his food the desired and necessary quality. CAFE NOIB. 1813. This is usually handed round after dinner, and should be drunk well sweetened, with the addition of a little brandy or liqueurs, which may be added or not at pleasure. The coffee should be made very strong, and served in very small cups, but never mixed with milk or cream. Cafe noir may be made of the essence of coffee No. 1808, by pouring a tablespoonful into each cup, and filling it up with boiling water. This is a very simple and expeditious manner of preparing coffee for a large party, but the essence for it must be made very good, and kept well corked until required for use. TO MAKE TEA. 1814. There is very little art in making good tea; if the water is boiling, and there is no sparing of the fragrant leaf, the beverage will almost invariably be good. The old-fashioned plan of allowing a teaspoonful to each person, and one over, is still practised. Warm the teapot with boiling water ; let it remain for two or three minutes for the vessel to become thoroughly hot, then pour it away. Put in the tea, pour in from i to f pint of boiling water, close the lid, and let it stand for the tea to draw from 5 to 10 minutes ; then fill up the pot with water. The tea vv ill be quite spoiled unless made v/itli water that is actually boiling, as the leaves will not open, and the flavour not be extracted from them ; the beverage will consequently be colourless and tasteless,—in fact, nothing but tepid water. •Where there is a very large party to make tea for, it is a good plan to have two teapots instead of putting a large quantity of tea into one pot; the tea, besides, will go farther. When the infusion has been once completed, the addition of fresh tea adds very little to the strength ; so, when more is required, have the pot emptied of the old leaves, scalded, and fresh tea made in the usual manner. Economists say that a few grains of carbonate of soda, added before the boiling water is poured on the tea, assist to draw out the goodness: if the water is very hard, perhaps it is a good plan, as the soda softens it; but care must be taken to use this ingredient sparingly, as it is liable to give the tea a soapy taste if added in too large a quantity. For