MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 72 Macaeoni.—This 13 the favourite food of Italy, where, especially among he Nea- politans, it may be regarded as the staff of life. *' The crowd of London," says Mr. Forsyth, " is a double line in quick motion; it is the crowd of business. The crowd of Naples consists in a general tide rolling up and down, and in the middle of this tide, a hundred eddies of men. You are stopped by a carpenter's bench, you are lost among shoemakers' stalls, and you dash among the pots of a macaroni stall." This article of food ia nothing more than a thick paste, made of the best wheaten flour, with a small quantity of water. When it has been well worked, it is put into a hollow cylindrical vessel, pierced with holes ot the size of tobacco-pipes at the bottom. Through these holes the mass is forced by a powerful screw bearing on a piece of wood made exactly to tit the inside of the cylinder. Whilst issuing irom the holes, it is partially baked by a fire placed below the cylinder, and is, at the same time, drawn away and hung over rods placed about the room, in order to dry. In a few days it is tit for use. MACABONI. both wholesome and nutritious, it ought to be much more used by all classes in England than it is. It generally ac- companies Parmesan cheese to the tables of the rich, but is also used for thickening soups and making puddings. SOUP MAIGBB (i.e. without Meat). 136. Ingredients.—6 oz, butter, 6 onions sliced, 4 heads of celery, 2 lettuces, a small bunch of parsley, 2 handfuls of spinach, 3 pieces of bread-crust, 2 blades of mace, salt and pepper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, and put in the onions to stew gently for 3 or 4 minutes ; then add the celery, spinach, lettuces, and parsley, cut small. Stir the ingredients well for 10 minutes. Now put in the water, bread, seasoning, and mace. Boil gently for labour, and, at the moment of serving, beat in the yolks of the eggs and the vinegar, but do not let it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time.—2 hours. Average cost^ Q>d, per quart. Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Lettuce.—This is one of the acetarious vegetables, which comprise a large class, chiefly used as pickles, salads, and other condiments. The lettuce has in all antiquity been distinguished as a kitchen-garden plant. It was, without preparation, eaten by the Hebrews with the Paschal lamb; the Greeks delighted in it, and the Komans, in the time of Domitian, had it prepared with eggs, and served in tne first course at their tables, merely to excite their appetites. Its botanical name is Lactuca, so called from the milky juice it exudes when its stalks are cut. It possesses a narcotic virtue, noticed by ancient physicians; and even in our day a lettuce supper is deemed conducive to repose. Its proper character, however, is that of a cooling summer vegetable, not very LETTUCE, nutritive, but serving as a corrective, or diluent of animal food. MILK SOUP (a Nice Dish for Children). 137. Ingredients.—2 quarts of milk, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, 3 teaspoonfuls of pounded sugar, or more if liked, 4 thin slices of bread, the yolks of 6 eggs.