MODEEN EOUSEHOLD COOKEET. 7S0 Time.—^ hour to simmer the goosehcrries without the sugar; f hour to boil the juice. Average cost^ from 8i7. to 10c?. per pot. Seasonable in July. COMPOTE or GBEEIsTGAGES. 1551. Ingeedients.—1 pint of s^^rup made by recipe No. 1512, 1 quart 'of greengages. Mode,—Mak« a syrup by-recipe Ko. lol2, skim it well, and put in the greengages when the syrup is boiling, having previously removed the stalks and stones from the fruit. Boil gently for ^ hour, or until the fruit is tender; but take care not to let it break, as the appearance of the dish would be spoiled were the fruit reduced to a pulp. Take the greengages carefully out, place them on a glass dish, boil the syrup for another 5 minutes^ let it cool a little, pour over the fruit, and, when cold, it will be ready for use. Time,—\ hour to simmer the fruit, 5 minutes the syrup. Average cost, in full season, lOd, Sufficie7it for 4 or 6 persons. Seasonable in July, August, and September. GBSENGAGE JAM. 1552. Ing-eedients.—To every lb. of fruit, weighed before being stoned, allow f lb. of lump sugar. Ifode,—Divide the greengages, take out the stones, and put them into a preserving-pan. Bring the fruit to a boil, then add the sugar, and keep stirring it over a gentle fire until it is melted. Remove all the scum as it rises, and, just before the jam is done, boil it rapidly for 0 minutes. To ascertain when it is sufficiently boiled, pour a little on a plate, and if the syrup thickens and appears firm, it is done. Have ready half the kernels blanched; put them into the jam, give them one boil, and pour the preserve into pots. When cold, cover down with oiled papers, and, over these, tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Time.—J hour after the sugar is added. Average cost^ from 6J. to 8d per lb. pot. Sufficient.—Allow about Ih pint of fruit for every lb. pot of jam. Seasonable,—Make this in August or September. TO PKESSBVE AITO DBY GBEEl^GAGES. 1553. Ikgeedieitts.—To every lb. cf sugar allow 1 lb. of fruit, i pint of water.