1051 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. unload the congested state of the lungs,—the cause of the oppressed breathing; and, secondly, to act vigorously, both during the disease and afterwards, on the bowels. At the same time it cannot be too strongly borne in mind, that though the patient in measles should on no account be kept unduly hot, more care than in most infantine complaints should be taken to guard the body from cold, or any abrupt changes of temperature. With these special observations, we shall proceed to give a description of the disease, as recog- nized by its usual— 2549. Spnptoms, which commence with cold chills and flushes, lassitude, heaviness, pain in the head, and drowsiness, cough, hoarseness, and extreme difficulty of breathing, frequent sneezing, defluction or running at the eyes and nose, nausea, sometimes vomiting, thirst, a furred tongue; the imhe throughout is quick, and sometimes full and soft, at others hard and small, with other indications of an inflammatory nature. 2550. On the third day, small red points make their appearance, first on the face and neck, gradually extending over the upper and lower part of the body. On the fifth day, the vivid red of the eruption changes into a brownish hue ; and, in two or three days more, the rash entirely disappears, leaving a loose powdery desquamation on the skin, which rubs ofl* like dandrifi". At this stage of the disease a diarrhoea frequently comes on, which, being what is called critical," should never be checked, unless seriously severe. Measles some- times assume a typhoid or malignant character, in which form the symptoms are all greatly exaggerated, and the case from the first becomes both doubtful and dangerous. In this condition the eruption comes out sooner, and only in patches; and often, after showing for a few hours, suddenly recedes, pre- senting, instead of the usual florid red, a dark purple or blackish hue ; a dark brown fur forms on the gums and mouth, tne breathing becomes laborious, delirium supervenes, and, if unrelieved, is followed by coma ; a fetid diarrhoea takes place, and the patient sinks under the congested state of the lungs and the oppressed functions of the brain. 2551. The unfavourable symptoms in measles are a high degree of fever, the excessive heat and dryness of the skin, hurried and short breathing, and a X^articularly hard pulse. The sequelae, or after-consequences, of measles are, croup, bronchitis, mesenteric disease, abscesses behind the ear, ophthalmia, and glandular swellings in other parts of the body. 2552. Treatment.—In the first place, the patient should be kept in a cool room, the temperature of which must be regulated to suit the child's feelings of comfort, and the diet adapted to the strictest principles of abstinence. When the inflammatory symptoms are severe, bleeding, in some form, is often necessary, though, when adopted, it must be in the/r^i ^to^^e of the disease ; and, if the lungs are the apprehended seat of the inflammation, two or more leeches, according to the age and strength oi the patient, must be applied to