rOULTRY. m FRIED FOWLS (Cold Meat Cookery). I. 947. Ingkedients.—The remains of cold roast fowls, vinegar, salt and cayenne to taste, 3 or 4 minced shalots. For the batter,—^ lb. of flour, i pint of hot water, 2 oz. of butter, the whites of 2 egg-s. 3fGde.—Cut the fowl into nice joints ; steep them for an hour in a little vinegar, with salt, cayenne, and minced shalots. Make the batter by mixing the flour and water smoothly together; melt in it the butter, and add the whites of egg beaten to a froth; take out the pieces of fowl, dip them in the batter, and fry, in boiling lard, a nice brown. Pile them high in the dish, and garnish with fried parsley or rolled bacon. When approved, a sauce or gravy may be served with them Tune.—10 minutes to fry the fowl. Average cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, Sd. Seasonable at any time. Chanticleeb and nis Companions.—On bringing the male and female Lirds together ! for the first time, it wiU be necessary to watch the former closely, as it is a very common. I occurrence with him to conceive a sudden and violent disHke for one or more of his I wives, and not allow the obnoxious ones to approach within some distance of the others; ! indeed, I know many cases where the capricious tyrant has set upon the innocent cause of his resentment and killed her outright. In all such cases, the hen objected to should be removed and replaced by another. If the cock should, by any accident, get killed, considerable delicacy is required in introducing a new one. The hens may mope, and refuse to associate with their new husband, clustering in corners, and making odious comparisons between him and the departed; or the cock may have his own peculiar notions as to what a wife should be, and be by no means satisfied with those you have provided him. The plan is, to keep him by himself nearly the whole day, supplying him plentifully vdVa. exhilarating food, then to turn him loose among the hens, and to continue this practice, allowing him more of the society of his wives each day, until you suffer him to abide with them altogether. IT. I 948. Ingeedients.—The remains of cold roast fowl, vinegar, salt and cayenne to taste, 4 minced shalots, yolk of egg; to every teacupfiil of bread crumbs allow 1 blade of pounded mace, | teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 saltspoonful of salt, a few grains of cayenne. ilfo(ie.—Steep the pieces of fowl as in the preceding recipe, then dip them into the yolk of an egg or clarifled butter; sprinkle over bread crumbs with which have been mixed salt, mace, cayenne, and lemon-peel in the above proportion. Fry a light brown, and serve with or without gravy, as may be preferred. Time—10 minutes to fry the fowl. Average cost, exclusive of the cold fowl, 6d. Seasojiahle at any time. Various Modes ov Fattenino Fov7ls.—It would, I think, be a difficult matter to find, among the entire fraternity of fowl-keepers, a dozen whose mode of fattening " stock" is the same. Some say that the grand secret is to give them abundance of saccharine food J others say nothing beats heavy corn steeped in milkj while another breeder,