831 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. white. In grinding, these two portions are separated, and the husk being blown away in the process of winnowing, the flour remains in the form of a light brown powder, consisting principally of starch and gluten. In order to render it white, it undergoes a process called bolting." It is passed through a series of fine sieves, which separate the coarser parts, leaving behind fine white flour,—the "fine firsts " of the corn-dealer. The process of bolting, as just described, tends to deprive flour of its gluten, the coarser and darker portion containing much of that substance; while the lighter part is peculiarly rich in starch. Bran contains a large proportion of gluten ; hence it will be seen why brown bread is so much more nutritious than white ; in fact, wo may lay it down as a general rule, that the whiter the bread the less nourish- ment it contains. Majendie proved this by feeding a dog for forty days with white wheaten bread, at the end of which time he died ; while another dog, fed. on brown bread made with flour mixed with bran, Uved without any diS" turbance of his health. The "bolting" process, then, is rather injurious than beneficial in its result; and is one of the numerous instances where fashion has chosen a wrong standard to go by. In ancient times, down to tha Emperors, no bolted flour was known. In many parts of Germany the entire meal is used ; and in no part of the world are the digestive organs of the people in a better condition. In years of famine, when corn is scarce, the use of bolted flour is most culpable, for from 18 to 20 per cent, is lost in bran. Brown bread has, of late years, become very popular ; and many physicians have recommended it to invalids with weak digestions with great success. This rage for white bread has introduced adulterations of a very serious character, affecting the health of the whole community. Potatoes are added for this purpose; but this is a comparatively harmless cheat, only reducing the nutritive property of the bread ; but bone-dust and alum are also put in, which are far from harmless. 1670. Bread-making is a very ancient art indeed. The Assyrians, Egyptians, and Greeks, used to make bread, in which oil, with aniseed and other spices, was an element; but this was unleavened. Every family used to prepare the bread for its own consumption, the trade of baking not having yet taken shape. It is said, that somewhere about the beginning of the thirtieth Olympiad, the slave of an archon, at Athens, made leavened bread by accident. He had left some wheaten dough in an earthen pan, and forgotten it; some days after- wards, he lighted upon it again, and found it turning sour. His first thought was to throw it away; but, his master coming up, he mixed this now acescent dough with some fresh dough, which he was working at. The bread thus produced, by the introduction of dough in which alcoholic fermentation had begun, was found delicious by the archon and his friends ; and the slave, being summoned and catechised, told the secret. It spread all over Athens ; and everybody wanting leavened bread at once, certain persons set up as bread- makers, or bakers. In a short time bread-baking became quite an art, and ''Athenian bread" was quoted all over Greece as the best bread, just as the honey of Hymettus was celebrated as the best honey.