BEVERAGES. 883 situation for it. The following spring it should be drawn off into stone bottles, and the vinegar will be fit for use twelvemonths after it is made. This will be found a most excellent preparation, greatly superior to much that is sold under the name of the best white wine vinegar. Many years' experience has proved that pickle made with this vinegar will keep, when bought vinegar will not preserve the ingredients. The cost per gallon is merely nominal, especially to those who reside in the country and grow their own gooseberries; the coarse sugar is then the only ingredient to be purchased. Time.—To remain in the cask 9 months. Average cost, when the gooseberries have to be purchased, Is. per gallon; when they are grown at home, 6d. per gallon. Seasonable—This should be made the end of June or the beginning of July, when gooseberries are ripe and plentiful. EFFEKVESCIJSTG GOOSEBERRY WINE. 1821. Ingeedients.—To every gallon of water allow 6 lbs. of green gooseberries, 3 lbs. of lump sugar. 3Iode.—This wine should be prepared from unripe gooseberries, in order to avoid the flavour which the fruit would give to the wine when in a mature state. Its briskness depends more upon the time i of bottling than upon the unripe state of the fruit, for effervescing I wine can be made from fruit that is ripe as well as that which is unripe. The fruit should be selected when it has nearly attained its ■ full growth, and consequently before it shows any tendency to ripen. I Any bruised or decayed berries, and those that are very small, should be rejected. The blossom and stalk ends should be removed, and the fruit well bruised in a tub or pan, in such quantities as to insure each berry being broken without crushing the seeds. Pour the water (which should be warm) on the fruit, squeeze and stir it with the hand until all the pulp is removed from the skin and seeds, and cover the whole closely for 24 hours; after which, strain it through a coarse bag, and press it with as much force as can be conveniently applied, to extract the whole of the juice and liquor the fruit may : contain. To every 40 or 50 lbs. of fruit one gallon more of hot water may be passed through the marc, or husks, in order to obtain any i soluble matter that may remain, and be again pressed. The juice i should be put into a tub or pan of sufficient size to contain all of it, and the sugar added to it. Let it be well stirred until the sugar is dissolved, and place the pan in a warm situation; keep it closely covered, and let it ferment for a day or two. It must then be drawn off into clean casks, placed a little on one side for the scum that 3 L 2