BEEF. 313 supporters. Sir Walter Scott has described a feast at which the baron of beef would have appeared to great advantufre. We will quote a few lines to remind us of those dnys when *' England was merry England," and when hospitality was thought to be tho highest virtue, ** Tho fire, with well-dried logs supplied. Went roaring up the chimney wide; The huge hall-table's oaken face, Scrubbed till it shone, the day to grace. Bore then, upon its massive board, No mark to part the squire and lord. Then was brought in the lusty brawn, By old blue-coated serving-man; Then the grim boar's head frowu'd on high. Crested with bays and roseraar3\ Well can the green-garb'd ranger tell How, when, and where the monster fell; What dogs before his death he tore, And all the baiting of the boar; While round the merry wassel bowl, Garnish'd with ribbons, blithe did trov/L There the huge sirloin reek'd; hard by Plum-porridge stood, and Christmas piej Nor fail'd old Scotland to produce, At such high tide, her savoury goose." When a lord's son came of ago, in the olden time, the baron of beef was too small a joint, by many degrees, to satisfy the retainers who would flock to the hall; a whole ox was therefore generally roasted over a fire built up of huge logs. Vie may here mention, that an ox was roasted entire on the frozen Thames, in the early part of the present century. STEWSD SHII^- OF BEEF. 671. Ingeedients.—A shin of beef, 1 head of celery, 1 onion, a fag-g-ot of savoury herbs, 1 teaspoonfiil of allspice, f teaspoonful of whole black pepper, 4 carrots, 12 button onions, 2 turnips, thickening of butter and flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 table- spoonfuls of port wine ; pepper and salt to taste. Mode,—Have the bone sawn into 4 or 5 pieces, cover with hot water, bring it to a boil, and remove any scum that may rise to the surface. Put in the celery, onion, herbs, spice, and seasoning, and simmer very gently until the meat is tender. Peel the vegetables, cut them into any shape fancy may dictate, and boil them with the onions until tender; lift out the beef, put it on a dish, which keep hot, and thicken with butter and flour as much of the liquor as will be wanted for gravy ; keep stirring till it boils, then strain and skim. Put the gravy back in the stewpau, add the seasoning, port wine, and ketchup, give one boil, and pour it over the beef; garnish with the boiled carrots, turnips, and onions. Time.—The meat to be stewed about 4 hours. Average cost, id. per lb. with bone. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. TOAD-IK-THE-HOLE (a Homely but Savoury Dish). 672. Ingeedients.—li lb. of rump-steak, 1 sheep's kidney, pepper