7S8 MODERN nOUSrnOLD COOKERY. sugar is sufficiently boiled, it will easily snap. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into nice-sized slices, without breaking the thin white skin which sur- rounds the juicy pulp. Place the pieces of orange on small skewers, dip them into the hot sugar, and arrange them in layers round a plain mould, which should be well oiled with the purest salad-oil. The sides of the mould only should be lined with the oranges, and the centre left open for the cream. Let the sugar become iirm by cooling ; turn the oranges carefully out on a dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with any kind of liqueur, and sweetened with pounded sugar* This is an exceedingly ornamental and nice dish for the supper-table. Time,—10 minutes to boil the sugar. Acer age costy Is. 8d. Sufficient for 1 mould. Seasonable from I^ovember to May, TO MAKE PAHCAKSS. 1467. Ingeediexts.—Eggs, flour, milk; to every egg allow 1 oz. of flour, about 1 gill of milk, ^ saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Ascertain that the eggs are fresh ; break each one separately in a cup ; whisk them well, put them into a basin, with the flour, salt, and a few drops of milk, and beat the v/hole to a perfectly smooth batter ; then add by degrees the remainder of the milk. The propor- tion of this latter ingredient must be regulated by the size of the eggs, &e. (§:c. ; but the batter, when ready for frying, should be of the consistency of thick cream. Place a small frying-pan on the fire to get hot; let it be delicately clean, or the pancakes will stick, and, when quite hot, put into it a small p bee of butter, allowing about 4 oz. to each pancake. When it is melted, pour in the batter, about i teacupful to a pan 0 inches in diameter, and fry it for about 4 minutes, or until, it is nicely brown on one side. By only pouring ifc a small quantity of batter, and so making the pancakes thin, the necessity of turning them (an operation rather difficult to unskilful cooks) is obviated* "When the pancake is done, sprinkle over it some pounded sugar, roll it np in the pan, and take it out with a large slice, and place it on a dish before the fire. Proceed in this manner until sufficient are cooked for a dish ; then send them quickly to table, and continue to send in a further quantity, as pancakes are never good unless eaten almost immediately they come from the frying-pan. The batter may be flavoured with a little grated lemon-rind, or the pancakes may have preserve rolled in them instead of sugar. Send sifted sugar and a cut