FRUIT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS, 73 Mode.—Boil t"he milk with the salt, cinnamon, and sugar; lay the bread in a deep dish, pour over it a little of the milk, and keep it hot over a stove, without burning. Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add them to the milk, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Do not let it curdle. Pour it upon the bread, and serve. Time—\ of an hour. Averacje costy Scl. per quart. Seasonable all the year. StiJJicient for 10 children. ONIOK- SOUP. 138. Ingeedients.—6 large onions, 2 oz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, i pint of cream, 1 quart of stock !N"o. 105. Mode.—Chop the onions, put them in the butter, stir them occa- sionally, but do not let them brown. When tender, put the stock to them, and season ; strain the soup, and add the boiling cream. Time.—l^ hour. Average cost, Is, per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 4 persons. CHEAP ONIOI3" SOUP. 139. Ingredients.—8 middling-sized onions, 3 oz. of butter, a table- spoonful of rice-flour, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of pow- dered sugar, thickening of butter and flour, 2 quarts of water. 3fode.—Cut the onions small, put them in the stewpan with the butter, and fry them well; mix the rice-flour smoothly with the water, add the onions, seasoning, and sugar, and simmer till tender. Thicken with butter and flour, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, id. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. The Onion.—Like the cabbage, this plant was erected into an object of worship by the idolatrous Egyptians 2,000 years before the Christian era, and it still forms a favourite food in the country of these people, as well as in other parts of Africa. When it was first introduced to England, has not been ascertained; but it has long been in use, and esteemed as a favourite seasoning plant to various dishes. In warmer climates it is much milder in its flavour; and such as are grown in Spain and Portugal, are, comparatively speaking, very large, and are often eaten both in a onion. boiled and roasted state. The Strasburg is the most esteemed; and, although all the species have highly nutritive properties, they impart such a disagreeable odour to the breath, that they are often rejected even where they are liked. Chewing a little raw parsley is said to remove this odour. PAW KAIL. 140. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of cabbage, or Savoy greens; ? lb. of