145 FISH. OYSTER PATTIES (an Entree). 289. INGREDIENTS.—2 dozen oysters, 2 oz. butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, a little lemon-juice, 1 blade of pounded mace; cayenne to taste. 3Iode.—Scald, the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and cut each one into 3 pieces. Put the butter into a stewpan, dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up ; add the strained oyster-liquor with the other ingredients; put in the oysters, and let them heat gradually, but not boil fast. Make the patty-cases as directed for lobster patties, Ko. 277 : till with the oyster mixture, and replace the covers. Time.—2 minutes for the oysters to simmer in the mixture. Average cost, exclusive of the patty-cases, Is. id. Seasonahle from September to April. The Oysteb Fishery.—The oyster fishery in Britain is esteemed of so much import- Ance, that it is regulated by a Court of Admiralty. In the mouth of May, the fishermen are allowed to take the oysters, in order to separate the spawn from the eulteh, the latter of which is thrown in again, to preserve the bed for the future. After this month, it is felony to carry away the cultch, and otherwise punishable to take any oyster, between the shells of which, when closed, a shilling will rattle. TO KEEP OYSTERS. 290. Put them in a tub, and cover them with salt and water. Let them remain for 12 hours, when they are to be taken out, and allowed to stand for another 12 hours without water. If left without water every alternate 12 hours, they will be much better than if constantly kept in it. Never put the same water twice to them. OYSTERS FRIED TN BATTER. ^291. Ingbedients.—I pint of oysters, 2 eggs, i pint of milk, suffi- cient flour to make the batter; pepper and salt to taste; when liked, a little nutmeg; hot lard. J/oJe.—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and lay them on a cloth, to drain thoroughly. Break the eggs into a basin, mix the flour with them, add the milk gradually, with nutmeg and seasoning, and put the oysters in the batter. Make some lard hot in a deep frying-pan, put in the oysters, one at a time ; when done, take them up with a sharp-pointed skewer, and dish them on a napkin. Fried oysters are frequently used for garnishing boiled fish, and then a few bread crumbs should be added to the flour. Time.—6 or 6 minutes. Average cost for this quantity, Is, 10c7. Seasonahle from September to April. Sufficient for 3 persons. L