MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 5Gi be employed in raising up the lower small end of the fowl towards the fork, and thus the back will be dislocated about its middle. The v/ings, breast, and merrythonght are esteemed the prime parts of a fowl, and are usually served to the ladies of the company, to whom legs, except as a matter of paramount necessity, should not be given. Byron gave it as one reason why he did not like dining with ladies, that they always had the wings of the fowls, which he himself pre- ferred. We heard a gentleman who, when he might have had a wing, declare his partiality for a leg, saying that he had been obliged to eat legs for so long a time, that he had at last come to like them better than the other more prized parts. If the fowl is, capon-like, very large, slices maybe carved from its breast in the same manner as from a turkey's. EOAST rOWL. BOAST FCWIi. 1001. Generally speaking, it is not necessary so completely to cut np a fowl as we have described in the preceding paragraphs, unless, indeed, a large family party is assembled, and there are a number of "little mouths'* to be filled, or some other such circumstances prevail. A roast fowl is carved in the same manner as a boiled fowl, No. 1000 ; viz., by cutting along the line from 1 to 2, and tiien round the leg betv\^een it and the wing. The markings and detached pieces, as shown in the engravings under the heading of '* Boiled Fowl," ' supersede the necessity of our lengthily again describing the operation. It may be added, that the liver, being considered a delicacy, should be divided, and one half served with each wing. In the case of a fowl being stuffed, it will be x>roper to give each guest a portion, unless it be not agreeable to some one of the party. HOAST GOOSE. H 1002. It would not be fair to say that this dish bodes a great deal of happiness to an inexperienced carver, especially if there is a large party to serve, and the slices off the breast should not suffice to satisfy the desires and cravings of many wholesome appetites, produced, may be, by the various sports in vogue at Michaelmas and Christmas. The beginning of the task, however, is not in any way difficult. Evenly-cut slices, not too thicker too thin, EOAST GOOSE.