198 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 3Iode.—Cut up tlie ham and veal into small square pieces, and put them into a stewpan. Moisten these with | pint of the stock 'No. 107, and simmer till the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a nicely- coloured glaze, when put in a few more spoonfuls to detach it. Add the remainder of the stoclr, with the spices, herbs, shalots, and onions, and simmer very gently for 1 hour. Strain and skim off every particle of fat, and when required for use, thicken with butter and flour, or with a little roux. Add the wine, and, if necessary, a seasoning of cayenne ; when it will be ready to serve. Ti77ie.—1^ hour. Average cost, 2s, per pint. Note.—The wine in this sauce may be omitted^ and an onion sliced and fried of a nice brown substituted for it. This sauCe or gravy is used for many dishes, and with most people is a general favourite. FEHl^TEI. SAUCE FOR MACKEREri. 412. Ingeedien-ts.—i pint of melted butter, K"o. 376, rather more than 1 tablespoonful of chopped fennel. Ifode. — Make the melted butter very smoothly, by recipe No. 376; chop the fennel rather small, carefully cleansing it from any grit or dirt, and put it to the butter when this is on the point of boiling. Simmer for a minute or two, and serve in a tureen. Time.—2 minutes. Average cost, Sufficient to serve with 5 or 6 mackerel. !FEi!ns'EL.—This elegantly-growing plant, of which the Latin name is Anethum fcBniculum, grows best in clialky soils, Avliere, indeed, it is often found wild. It is very generally cultivated in gardens, and has much improved on its original form. Various dishes are frequently ornamented and garnished with its graceful leaves, and these are sometimes boiled in soups, although it is more usually confined, in English cookery, to the mackerel sauce as here given, PISK SAUCE. 413. In^geedtents.—14 oz. of cayenne, 2 tablespoonfuls of walnut ketchup, 2 tablespoonfuls of soy, a few shreds of garlic and shalot, 1 quart of vinegar. Mode.—Put all the ingredients into a large bottle, and shake well every day for a fortnight. Keep it in small bottles well sealed, and in a few days it will be fit for use. j Average cost, for this quantity, Is, ]