215 SAUCES^ ETC. boil again. To every pint of the boiled liquor add vinegar, wine, and soy, in the above quantities, and bottle off for use. Cork well, and seal the corks. Seasonahle.—Mdke this sauce from the beginning to the middle of July, when walnuts are in perfection for sauces and pickling. Average costy 3s. 6d, for a quart. Manufactuke of Sauces.—In France, during the reign of Louis XII., at the latter end of the llth century, there was formed a company of sauce-manufacturers, who obtained, in those days of monopohes, the exclusive privilege of nialdng sauces. The statutes drawn up by this company inform ns that the famous sauce a la cameline, sold by them, was to be composed of "good cinnamon, good ginger, good cloves, good grains of paradise, good bread, and good vinegar." The sauce Tence, was to be made of "good sound almonds, good ginger, good wine, and good verjuice." May we respectfully express a hope—not that we desire to doubt it in the least—that the English sauce-manufacturers of the 19th century are equally considerate and careful in choosing their ingredients for their various v/ell-known preparations. SAUOB A L'AUBOSE, for Trout, Soles, &c. 511. Ingeedients.—The spawn of 1 lobster, 1 oz. of butter, i pint of Bechamel (No. 367), the juice of J lemon, a high seasoning of salt and cayenne. Mode.—Take the spawn and pound it in a mortar with the butter,, until quite smooth, and work it through a hair sieve. Put the- Bechamel into a stewpan, add the pounded spawn, the lemon-juice,., which must be strained, and a plentiful seasoning of cayenne and salt; let it just simmer, but do not allow it to boil, or the beautiful red colour of the sauce will be spoiled. A small spoonful of anchovy, essence may be added at pleasure. Time,—1 minute to simmer. Average cost^ for this quantity, \s\ Sufficient for a pair of large soles. Seasonable at any time. SAUCE A LA MATELOTE, for Fish. 512. Ingredients.—J pint of Espagnole {^0. 411), 3 onions, 2 table-, spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, | glass of port wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, i bay-leaf, salt and pepper to taste, 1 clove, 2 berries of allspice, a little liquor in which the fish has been boiled, lemon-juice, and anchovy sauce. JfocZf?.—Slice and fry the onions of a nice brown colour, and put them into a stewpan with the Espagnole, ketchup, wine, and a little liquor in which the fish has been boiled. Add the seasoning, herbs, and spices, and simmer gently for 10 minutes, stirring w^ell the whole time; strain it through a fine hair sieve, put in the lemon-juice and anchovy sauce, and pour it over the fish. This sauce may be Tery much enriched by adding a few small quenellesj or forcejaeat.