THE LAMB. 329 outside line^ keep the enemy at bay, or chargirig on bim in a troop, have despatched him v/ith their horns. 697. The Value of the Skeep seems to have been early understood by Adam in his fallen state ; his skin not only affording him protection for his body, but a covering for his tent; and accordingly, we find Abel intrusted with this por- tion of his father's stock ; for the Bible tells us that Abel was a keeper of ' sheep." What other animals were domesticated at that time we can only conjecture, or at what exact period the flesh of the sheep was first eaten for food by man, is equally, if not uncertain, open to controversy. For thougii some authorities maintain the contrary, it is but natural to suppose that when Abel brought firstlings of his flock, ''and the fat thereof," as a sacrifice, the less dainty portions, not being oblations, were hardly likely to have been flung away as refuse. Indeed, without supposing Adam and his descendants to have eaten animal food, we cannot reconcile the fact of Jubal Cain, Cain's son, and his family, living in tents, as they are reported to have done, know- ing that both their own garments and the coverings of the tents, were made from the hides and skins of the animals they bred ; for the number of sheep and oxen slain for oblations only, would not have supplied sufficient material for two such necessary purposes. The opposite opinion is, that animal food was not eaten till after the Flood, when the Lord renewed his covenant with IsToah. From Scriptural authority we learn many interesting facts as regards the sheep : the first, that mutton fat was considered the most delicious portion of any meat, and the tail and adjacent part the most exquisite morsel in the v/hole body ; consequently, such were regarded as especially fit for the offer of sacrifice. From this fact we may reasonably infer that the animal still so often met with in Palestine and Syria, and known as the Fat-tailed sheep, was in use in the days of the patriarchs, though probably not then of the size and weight it now attains to ; a supposition that gains greater strength, when it is remembered that the ram Abraham found in the bush, when he w^ent to offer up Isaac, was a horned animal, being entangled in the brake by his curved horns; so far proving that it belonged to the tribe of the Capridcc, the fat- tailed sheep appertaining to the same family. LAMB S. 698. Though the Lambing Season in this Country usually commences in March, under the artificial system, so much pursued now to please the appe- tite of luxury, lambs can be j^rocured at all seasons. When, however, the sheep lambs in mid-winter, or the inclemency of the weather would endanger tlie hves of mother and young, if exposed to its influence, it is customary to rear the lambs within-doors, and under the shelter of stables or barns, where, foddered on soft hay, and part fed on cow's milk, the little creatures thrive rapidly: to such it is customary to give the name of House Lamb, to distin- guish it from that reared in the open air, or grass-fed. The ewe goes five