FISH. 119 of rough usage, will eat much better than those with red gills, so strongly recommended by many cookery-books. This appearance is generally caused by the fish ha\Ting been knocked about at sea, in the well-boats, in which they are conveyed from the fishing-grounds to market. SALT COD, COMMONLY CALLED "SALT-FISH." 233. Ingeediekts.—Sufficient water to coyer tlie fisli. Mode,—Wash the fish, and lay it all night in water, with a \ pint of vinegar. "When thoroughly soaked, take it out, see that it is perfectly clean, and put it in the fish-kettle with sufficient cold watei to cover it. Heat it gradually, but do not let it boil much, or the fish will be hard. Skim well, and when done, drain the fish and put it on a napkin garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings. Time.—About 1 hour. Average costj 6d. per lb. Seasonable in the spring. Sufficient for each person, | lb. Note.—Serve with egg sauce and parsnips. This is an especial dish on Ash- Wednesday. Preserving Cod.—Immediately as the cod are caught, their heads are cut off. They are then opened, cleaned, and salted, when they are stowed away in the hold of the vessel, in beds of five or six yards square, head to tail, with a layer of salt to each layer of fish. V^hen they have lain in this state three or four days, in order that the water may drain from them, they are shifted into a diiFerent part of the vessel, and again salted. Here they remain tiU the vessel is loaded, when they are sometimes cut into thick pieces and packed in barrels for the greater convenience of carriage. COD SOUJSTDS Should be well soaked in salt and water, and thoroughly washed before dressing them. They are considered a great delicacy, and may either be broiled, fried, or boiled: if they are boiled, mix a little milk with the water. COD SOUNDS, EKT POULB. 234. Ingeedients.—Por forcemeat, 12 chopped oysters, 3 chopped anchovies, | lb. of bread crumbs, 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs; seasoning of salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace to taste ; 4 cod sounds. Mode,—Make the forcemeat by mixing the ingredients well together. Wash the sounds, and boil tiiem in milk and water for I an hour; take them out and let them cool. Cover each with a layei of forcemeat, roll them up in a nice form, and skewer them. Hub over with lard, dredge with flour, and cook them gently before the fire in a Dutch oven. Time.^l hour. Average cost, 6d, per lb.