MODERN nOUSEHOID COOKERY. 530 The Ptarmigan, oe White Ghouse.—TLis bird is nearly the same size as red grouse, and is fond of lofty situations, -where it braves the severest weather, and is found in most parts of Europe, as well as iu Greenland. At Hudson's Bay they appear in such multitudes that so many as sixty or seventy are frequently takeu at once in a net. As they are as tame as chickens, this is done without difficulty. Button says that the Ptarmigan avoids the solar heat, and prefers the frosts of the summits of the mountains; for, as the snow melts on the sides of the mountains, it ascends till it gains the top, where it makes a hole, and burrows in the snow. In winter, it flies in flocks, and feeds on the wild vege- tation of the hills, which imparts to its flesh a bitter, but not altogether an un- palatable taste. It is dark-coloured, and has something of the flavour of the hare, and is greatly relished, and much sought after by some sportsmen. TO DBBS3 QUAILS. 1046. Inghedients.—Quails, butter, toast. Mode.—These birds keep good several days, and should be roasted without drawing. Truss them in the same manner as woodcocks, No. 1062; roast them before a clear fire, keep them well basted, and serve on toast. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average cost.—Seldom bought. Sufficient 2 for a dish. Seasonable from October to December. The Quail.—Quails are almost universally diffused over Europe, Asia, and Africa. Being birds of passage, they are seen in immense flocks, traversing the Mediterranean Sea from Europe to Africa, in the autumn, and returning again in the spring, frequently alighting in their passage on many of the islands of the Archi- pelago, which, with their vast numbers, they almost completely cover. On the western coasts of the kingdom of IS'aples, they have appeared in such prodigious numbers, that, within the compass of four or five miles, as many as a hundred thousand have been taken in a day. " From these circumstances," says a writer on natural history, " it appears highly probable that the quails which supplied the Israelites TEE QUAIL. with food during their journey through the wilderness, were sent thither, on their passage to the north, by a wind from the south-west, sweeping over Egypt and Ethiopia towards the shores of the Pi.ed Sea." In England they are not very numerous, although they breed in it; and many of them are said to remain throughout the year, changing their quarters from the interior parts of the country for the seacoast. TO DUESS SKTIPES. 1047. Ingredients.—Snipes, butter, flour, toast. Mode.—TlnQ^e, like woodcocks, should be dressed without being drawn. Pluck, and wipe them outside, and truss them with the head