lU MODIZnN HOUSEHOLD COOKErvY. -Ilacldocks may be filleted, rubbed over with egg and bread crumbs, and fried a nice brown; garnish v,dth crisped parsley. THE HADDOCK. The Haddock.—This fish migrates in immense shoals, and arrives on the Yorkshire coast about the middle of winter. It is an inhabitant of the northern seas of Europe, but does not enter tho Baltic, and is not known in the Mediterranean. On each side of the body, just beyond the gills, it has a dark spot, which superstition asserts to be the impressions of the finger and thumb of St. Peter, when taking the tribute money out of a fish of this species, BOILED HADBOCK:. 264. Ikgredieuts.—SufHcient water to cover the fish; | lb. of salt to eacli gallon of water. J/o^/e.—Scrape the fish, take out the inside, wash it thoroughly, and lay it in a kettle, with enough water to coyer it, and salt in the above proportion. Simmer gently from 15 to 20 minutes, or rather more, should the :fish be very large. For small haddocks, fasten the tails in their mouths, and put them into boiling water. 10 to 15 minutes will cook them. Serve with plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. TiVwe.-—Large haddock, | hour; small, i hour, or rather less. Average cost, from 9^7. upwards. Seasonable from August to February. Weight oI" the IDaddock.—The haddock seldom grows to any great size. In general, they do not weigh more than two or three pounds, or exceed ten or twelve inches in size. Such are esteemed very delicate eating; but they liave been caught three feet long, when their flesh is-coarse. DKIED HADDOCIC I. 265. Dried haddock should be gradually warmed through, either before or over a nice clear iire, Eub a little piece of butter over, just before sending it to table. n. 266. IxGREBiEi^TS.—1 large thick haddock, 2 bay-leaves, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs, not forgetting parsley, a little butter and pepper; boiling water. Mode,—Cut up the haddock into square pieces, make a basin hot by means of hot water, which pour out. Lay in the fish, with the bay- leaves and herbs ; cover with boiling water; put a plate over to keep in the steam, and let it remain for 10 minutes. Take out the slices, put them in a hot dish, rub over with butter and pepper, and serve. Time.—'10 minutes. Seasonable at any time, but best in winter.