MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. BOILED SOLES. '321. Ingredients.—5 lb. salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse and wash the fish carefully, cut off the fins, but do not skin it. Lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover it, salted in the above proportion. Let it gradually come to a boil, and keep it simmering: for a few minutes, according to the size of the fish. Dish it on a hot napkin after well draining; it, and garnish wdth parsley and cut lemon. Shrimp, or lobster sauce, and plain melted butter, are usually sent to table with this dish. Time.—After the water boils, 7 minutes for a middling-sized sole. Average cost, Is. to 25. per pair. Seasonable at any time. Sufficienty—1 middling-sized sole for 2 persons. SOLE OB COD PIE. 322. Ingeedients.—The remains of cold boiled sole or cod, seasoning to taste of pepper, salt, and pounded mace, 1 dozen oysters to each lb. of fish, 3 tablespoonfuls of white stock, 1 teacupful of cream thickened with flour, puff paste. Mode,—Clear the fish from the bones, lay it in a pie-dish, and be- tween each layer put a few oysters and a little seasoning; add the stock, and, w^hen liked, a small quantity of butter; cover with puff paste, and bake for ^ hour. Boil the cream with sufficient flour to thicken it; pour in the pie, and serve. Time.—^ hour. Average cost for this quantity, I0d» Scasoiiahle at any time. Sufficient for 4 persons. SOLES WITH CBEAM SAUCE. 323. Ingeedients.—2 soles; salt, cayenne, and pounded mace to taste ; the juice of i lemon, salt and water, I pint of cream. Mode.—Skin, wash, and fillet the soles, and divide each fillet in 2 pieces ; lay them in cold salt and water, which bring gradually to a boil. When the water boils, take out the fish, lay it in a delicately clean stewpan, and cover with the cream. Add the seasoning, simmer very gently for ten minutes, and, just before serving, put in the lemon- juice. The fillets may be rolled, and secured by means of a skewer; but this is not so economical a way of dressing them, as double the quantity of cream is required. Time.—10 minutes in the cream.