PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. 775 A VEBY ITICE PBESERVE OF DAMSONS. 1539. Ingeedients.—To every quart of damsons allow i lb. of loaf sugar. Mode. — Put the damsons (which should he picked from the stalks and quite free from blemishes) into a jar, with pounded sugar sprinkled amongst them in the above proportion; tie the jar closely down, set it in a saucepan of cold water ; bring it gradually to boil, and simmer gently until the damsons are soft, without being broken. Let them stand till cold; then strain the juice from them, boil it up well, strain it through a jelly-bag, and pour it over the fruit. Let it cool, cover with oiled papers, and the jars with tissue- paper brushed over on both sides v/ith the white of an egg, and store away in a dry cool place. Time.—About f hour to simmer the fruit after the water boils; J hour to boil the juice. Seasonable.—Make this in September or October. TO PRESERVE DAMSONS, OR ANY KIND OF PLUMS. {Usefid in Winter.) 1640. Ingbediehts.—Damsons or plums ; boiling water. Mode.—Pick the fruit into clean dry stone jars, taking care to leave out all that are broken or blemished. When full, pour boiling water on the plums, until it stands one inch above the fruit; cut a piece of paper to fit the inside of the jar, over which pour melted mutton-suet; cover down with brown paper, and keep the jars in a dry cool place. When used, the suet should be removed, the water poured off, and the jelly at the bottom of the jar used and mixed with the fruit. Seaso7iahIe in September and October. COMPOTE OF GREEN FIGS. 1541. IiTGEEDiSNTS.—1 pint of syrup No. 1512, 1| pint of green figs, the rind of | lemon. Mode.—Make a syrup by recipe No. 1512, boiliDg with it the lemon- rind, and carefully remove all the scum as it rises. Put in the figs, and simmer them very slowly until tender; dish I them on a glass dish; reduce the sj^rup compote of figs. ! by boiling it quickly for 5 minutes; take out the lemon-peel, pour the syrup over the figs, and the compote, when cold, will be ready