RECIPE So CHAPTER XXXIX. TO MAKE ARROWKOOT. 1855. Ingeedients.—Two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot, 3 ta'blespoon- fuls of cold water, i pint of boiling water. Mode.—Mix the arrowroot smoothly in a basin with the cold water, then pour on it the boiling water, stirring all the time. The water must be hoiling at the time it is poured on the mixture, or it will not thicken; if mixed with hot water only, it must be put into a clean saucepan, and boiled until it thickens ; but this is more trouble, and quite unnecessary if the water is boiling at first. Put the arrowroot into a tumbler, sweeten it with lump sugar, and flavour it with grated nutmeg or cinnamon, or a piece of lemon-peel, or, when allowed, 3 tablespoonfuls of port or sherry. As arrowroot is in itself flavour- less and insipid, it is almost necessary to add the wine to make it palatable. Arrowroot made with milk instead of water is far nicer, but is not so easily digested. It should be mixed in the same manner, with 3 tablespoonfuls of cold water, the boiling milk then poured on it, and well stirred. When made in this manner, no wine should be added, but merely sugar, and a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel. Time.—If obliged to be boiled, 2 minutes. Average cost, 2d. per pint. Sufficient to make i pint of arrowroot. Miss N'iGHTiNaALE says, in her "I^otes on Nursing," that arrowroot is a gi*and dependence of the nurse. As a vehicle for wine, and as a restorative quickly prepared, it is all very well, but it is nothing but starch and water; flour is both more nutritiv3 and less liable to ferment, and is preferable wherever it can be used. BABLEY GEUEIj. 1856. IisTGREDiEisTTS.—2 oz. of Scotch or pearl barley, h pint of port wine, the rind of 1 lemon, 1 quart and i pint of water, sugar to taste. Mode. —After well washing the barley, boil it in i pint of water for i hour ; then pour this water away; put to the barley the quart of fresh boiling water, and let it boil until the liquid is reduced to half; then strain it ofi*. Add the wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; simmer for