ADDENDUM AND ANECDOTE. It will be seen, from the number and variety of tbe recipes wbicli we have been enabled to give under the head of Fisn, that there exists in the salt ocean, and fresh-water rivers, an abundance of aliment, which the present state of gastronomic art enables the cook to introduce to the table in the most agreeable forms, and oftentimes at a very moderate cost. Less nutritious as a food than the flesh of animals, more succulent than vegetables, fish may be termed a middle dish, suited to all temperaments and constitutions; and one which those who are recovering from illness may partake of with safety and advantage. As to which is the best fish, there has been much discussion. The old Latin iDroverb, however, de gii&tihus non disputandtun, and the more modern Spanish one, sohre los gustos no hai disjouta, declare, with equal force, that where taste is concerned, no decision can be arrived at. Each person's palate may be differently affected—pleased or displeased ; and there is no standard by which to judge why a red mullet, a sole, or a turbot, should l>u better or worse than a salmon, trout, pike, or a tiny tench. Fish, as we have explained, is less nourishing than meat; for it is lighter in weight, size for size, and contains no ozmazome {see No. lOo). Shell-fish, oysters particularly, furnish but little nutriment; and this is the reason why so many of the latter can be eaten without injury to the system.. In Brillat Savarin's* clever and amusing volume, ^' The Physiology of Taste," he says, that towards the end of the eighteenth century it was a most common thing for a well-arranged entertainment in Paris to commence with oysters, and that many guests were not contented without swallowing twelve dozen. Being anxious to know the weight of this advanced-guard, he ascertained that a dozen oysters, fluid included, weighed 4 ounces,—thus, the twelve dozen would weigh about 3 lbs. ; and there can be no doubt, that the same persons v.lio made no worse a dinner on account of having partaken of the oysters, would have been completely satisfied if they had eaten the same weight of chicken or mutton. An anecdote, perfectly well authenticated, is narrated of a French gentleman (M. Laperte), residing at Versailles, who was extra- vagantly fond of oysters, declaring he never had enough. Savarin resolved to procure him the satisfaction, and gave him an invitation to dinner, which was duly accepted. The guest arrived, and his host kept company with him in swallowing the delicious bivalves up to the tenth dozen, when, exhausted, * Brillat Savarin was a French lawyer and judge of considerable eminence and great talents, and wrote, under the above title, a book on gastronomy, full of instructive information, enlivened with a fund of pleasantly-told anecdote.