GAME. 535 Animals not only use their horus, but strike very furiously with their fore feet. Some of the species are employed as beasts of draught, whilst the flesh of the n hole is wholesome, and that of some of the kinds, under the name of "venison," is considered very delicious. Persons fond of hunting have invented peculiar terms by which the objects of theirpursuit are characterized: thus the stag is called, the first year, a calf, or hind-calf; the second, & knolber ; the thii'd, a brock; the fourth, a stapgard; the fifth, 'a stag; and the sixth, a hart. The female is, the first year, called a caff; the second, a hearse ; and the third, a hind. In Britain, the stag has become scarcer than it formerly was; but, in the High- lands of Scotland, herds of four or five hundred may still be seen, ranging over the vast mountains of the north; and some of the stags of a great size. In former times, the great feudal chieftains used to hunt with all the pomp of eastern sovereigns, assembling some thousands of their clans, who drove the deer into the toils, or to such stations as were occupied by their chiefs. As this sport, however, was occasionally used as a means for collecting their vassals together for the purpose of concocting rebellion, an act was passed prohibitory of such assemblages. In the ** Waverley " of Sir Walter Scott, a deer-hunting scene of this kind is admirably described. Venison.—This is the name given to the flesh of some kinds of deer, and is esteemed as very delicious. Diflerent species of deer are found in wr.rm as well as cold climates, and are in several instances invaluable to man. This is especially the case with the JLaplander, whose reindeer constitutes a large proportion of his wealth. There— *' The reindeer unharness'd in freedom can play. And safely o'er Odin's steep precipice stray, Whilst the wolf to the forest recesses may fly. And howl to the moon as she glides through the sky." In that country it is the substitute for the horse, the cow, the goat, and the sheep. From its milk is produced cheese ; from its skin, clothing; from its tendons, bowstrings iind thread ; from its horns, glue ; from its bones, spoons ; and its flesh furnishes food. In England we have the stag, an animal of great beauty, and much admired. He is a native of many parts of Europe, and is supposed to have been originally introduced into this country from France. About a century back he was to be found wild in some of the rough and mountainous parts of Wales, as well as in the forests of Exmoor, in Devonshire, and the woods on the banks of the Tamar. In the middle ages the deer formed food for the not over abstemious monks, as represented by Friar Tuck's larder, in the admirable fiction of "Ivanhoe;" and at a later pex-iod it was a deer-stealing adventure that drove the " ingenious " William Shakspeare to London, to become a -common player, and the greatest dramatist that ever lived. HASHED VENISOW. 1050. Ingkedients.—The remains of roast venison, its own or mutton gravy, thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Cut the meat from the bones in neat slices, and, if there is sufficient of its own gravy left, put the meat into this, as it is prefer- able to any other. Should there not be enough, put the bones and .trimmings into a stewpan, with about a pint of mutton gravy; let them stew gently for an hour, and strain the gravy. Put a little £our and butter into the stewpan, keep stirring until brown, then add the strained gravy, and give it a boil up; skim and strain again, and, •when a little cool, put in the slices of venison. Place the stewpan by the side of the fire, and, when on the point of simmering, serve : do not allow it to boil, or the meat will be hard. Send red-currant jelly to table with it. Time.—Altogether, l\ hour Seasonable.—Buck venison, from June to Michaelmas ; doe venison, from November to the end of January. JN'ote.—A small quantity of Harvey's sauce, ketchup, or port wine, ma}'- bo