516 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. pieces, and tlie inferior ones and trimmings put into a stewpan with the onion, pepper, lemon-peel, salt, and water or weak stock; stew these for about an hour, and strain the gravy ; thicken it with butter and flour; add the wine, lemon-juice, and ketchup; lay in the pieces of game, and let them gradually warm through by the side of the fire ; do not allow it to boil, or the game will be hard. When on tho point of simmering, serve, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—Altogether If hour. Seasonahle from August to March. J^ote.—Any kind of game may bo hashed by the above recipe, and the flavour may be varied by adding flavom-ed vinegars, curry powder, &c.; but wo cannot recommend these latter ingredients, as a dish of game shoukl really have a gamy taste; and if too many sauces, essences, ko., are added to the gravy, they quite overpower and destroy the flavour the dish should possess. GEOUSE PIE. 1024. Ik-geedients.—Grrouse; cayenne, salt, and pepper to taste; 1 lb. of rump-steak, ^ pint of well-seasoned broth, pufr paste. 3Iode.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with the rump-steak cut into neat pieces, and, should the grouse be large, cut them into joints; but, if small, they may be laid in the pie whole; season highly with salt, cayenne, and black pepper; pour in the broth, and cover with a pufF paste; brush the crust over v/ith the yolk of an egg, and bake from f to 1 hour. If the grouse is cut into joints, the backbones and trimmings will make the gravy, by stewing them with an onion, a little sherry, a bunch of herbs, and a blade of mace: this should be poured in after the pie is baked. 2 WW.—I to 1 hour. Average cost^ exclusive of the grouse, which are seldom bought, Is. 9cL Seasonable from the 12th of August to the beginning of December, HOAST aSOUSE. 1025. iNaEEDiENTS.—Grouse, butter, a thick slice of toasted bread. Mode.—Let the birds hang as long as possible; pluck and draw them ; wipe, but do not wash them, in- side and out, and truss them without the head, the same as for a roast fowl. Many persons still continue to truss BOAST GRorsB. them with the head under the wing, but