280 butter until of a pale brown. Put all the ingredients tog-etber in a stewpan, and boil gently for about 10 minutes ; garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve very hot. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost. Is. per lb. Sufficient iox 2 or 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. CURBIED BSEF (Cold Meat Cookery). 6'2o. Tngeedients.—A few slices of tolerably lean cold roast or boiled beef, 3 oz. of butter, 2 onions, 1 winegiassful of beer, 1 dessert- spoonful of curry powder. 3Iode.—Cut up the beef into pieces about 1 inch square, put the butter into a stewpan with the onions sliced, and fry them of a light- brown Colour. Add all the other ingredients, and stir gently over a brisk fire for about 10 minutes. Should this be tliought too dry, more beer, or a spoonful or two of gravy or water, may be added ; but a good eurry should not be very thin. Place it in a deep dish, with an edging of dry boiled rice, in the same manner as for other curries. Ti))ie.~10 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id, Seaso7iaUe in winter. TO CLAilIFY BESF DBIPPHMG. I. 621. Good and fresh dripping answers very well for basting every- thing except game and poultry, and, when well clarified, serves for frying nearly as well ^as lard; it should be kept in a cool place, and will remain good some time. To clarify it, put the dripping into a basin, pour over it boiling water, and keep stirring the whole to wash, away the impurities. Let it stand to cool, when the water and dirty sediment will settle at the bottom of the basin. Eemove the dripping, and put it away in jars or basins for use. ANOTHER WAY. 6-22. Put the dripping into a clean saucepan, and let it boil for a feW minutes over a slow fire, and be careful to skim it well. Let it stand to cool a little, then strain it through a piece of muslin into jars for use. Beef dripping is preferable to any other for cooking purposes, as, with mutton dripping, there h }iable to be a tallowy taste and smelL BOAST FILLET OF BEEF (Larded). iNGUEDiENTS.—About 4 Ibs. of the inside fillet of the sirloin, u