MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 220 Lemon'-juice.—Citric acid is tlie principal component part of lemon-juice, whicli, in addition to the agreeableness of its flavour, is also particularly cooling and grateful. It is likewise an antiscorbutic; and this qixality enhances its value. In order to combat the fatal eifects of scurvy amongst the crews of ships at sea, a regular allowance of lemon-juice is served out to the men; and by this practice, the disease has almost entirely disappeared. By putting the juice into bottles, and pouring on the top sufficient oil to cover it, it may be preserved for a considerable time. Italy and Turkey export great quantities of it in this manner. IiEMOH SAUCE FOB BOILSD FOWLS. 457. iNaEEDiENTS.—1 small lemon, f pint of melted butter, 'No. S80. Mode.—Cut tbe lemon into very thin slices, and these again into very small dice. Have ready J pint of melted butter, made by recipe 1^0. 380 ; put in the lemon ; let it just simmer, but not boil, and pour it over the fowls. Tijne.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, 6d. Sufficient for a pair of large fowls. - • liEMOiy^ WHITE SAUCE, FOE FOWLS, FBICASSEES, &c. 458. Ingeedients.—f pint of cream, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, i teaspoonful of whole white pepper, 1 sprig of lemon thyme, 3 oz. of butter, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 teacupful of white stock; salt to taste. Mode.—Put the cream into a very clean saucepan (a lined one is best), with the lemon-peel, pepper, and thyme, and let these infuse for I hour, when simmer gently for a few minutes, or until there is a nice flavour of lemon. Strain it, and add a thickening of butter and flour in the above proportions ; stir this well in, and put in the lemon- juice at the moment of serving; mix the stock with the cream, and add a little salt. This sauce should not boil after the cream and stock are mixed together. Tz7ne.—Altogether, J hour. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient, this quantity, for a pair of large boiled fowls. Note.—r Where the expense of the cream is objected to, milk may be substituted for it. In this case, an additional dessertspoonful^ or rather more^ of flour must be added. Lemoi-t Thyme.—Two or three tufts of this species of thyme, Thymus citriodorns, usually find a place in the herb compartment of the Icitchen-garden. It is a trailing evergreen, is of smaller grov/th than the common kind (see No. 166), and is remarkable for its smell, which closely resembles that of the rind of a lemon. Hence its dis- tinctive name. It is used for some particular dishes, in which the fragrance of the lemon is desired to slightly predominate.