117 FI3H. thoroug-My; lay them in a stewpan with sufficient stock and sherry just to cover them. Put in the bay-leaf, garlic, parsley, cloves, and salt, and simmer till tender. When done, take out the fish, strain the liquor, add a thickening of butter and flour, the pepper, nutmeg, and the anchovy sauce, and stir it over the fire until somewhat reduced, when pour over the fish, and serve. Time.—About 20 minutes. Seasonable from September to November, BOILED PIKE. 295. Ingeedients.—i lb. of salt to each gallon of water; a little vinegar. iHb^^e.—Scale and clean the pike, and fasten the tail in its mouth by means of a skewer. Lay it in cold water, and when it boils, throw in the salt and vinegar. The time for boiling depends, of course, on the size of the fish ; but a middling-sized pike Vvdll take about § an hour. Serve with Dutch or anchovy sauce, and plain melted butter. According to size, ^ to 1 hour.—Average cost. Seldom bought. Seasonable from September to March. The Pike—THs fish is, on account of its voracity, termed tlie fresh-water shark, and is abundant in most of the European lakes, especially those of the northern parts. It grows to an immense size, some attaining to the measure of eight feet, in Lapland and Eussia. The smaller lakes, of this country and Ireland, vary in the kinds of fish they produce ; some affording trout, others pike ; and so on. Where these happen to be together, hov»*ever, the trout soon becomes extinct. " Within a short distance of Castlebar,''" says a writer on sports, "there is a small bog-lake caRed Derreens. Ten years ago it was celebrated for its numerous well-sized trouts. AccidcDtally pike effected a passage into the lake from the Minola river, and now the trouts are extinct, or, at least, none of them are caught or seen. Previous to the intrusion of the pikes, half a dozen trouts would be killed in an evening in Dorreens, wliose collective weight often amounted to twenty pounds." As an eating fiih, the pike i-s iu general dry. BAKED PIKE. 296. Ingeediekts.—1 or 2 pike, a nice delicate stuffing (se^ Force- meats), 1 egg, bread crumbs, I lb. butter. Mode.—Scale the fish, take out the gills, wash, and wipe it thoroughly dry; stuff it with forcemeat, sew it up, and fasten the tail in the mouth by means of a sliiewer; brush it over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs, and baste with butter, before putting it in the OYcn, which must be well heated. "When the pike is of a nice brown colour, cover it with buttered paper, as the outside V70uld become too dry. If 2 are dressed, a little variety may be made by making one of L 2