MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 412 Time.—Yvom 15 to 18 minutes. Average cost, lOd. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from Marcli to October. VEAL A LA BOURaEOISB. {Excellent.) 869. Ingeedients.—2 to 3 lbs. of the loin or neck of veal, 10 01 12 young carrots, a bunch of green onions, 2 slices of lean bacon, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, a few new potatoes, 1 pint of green peas. 3Iode.—Cut the veal into cutlets, trim them, and put the trimmings into a stewpan with a little butter; lay in the cutlets and fry them a nice brown colour on both sides. Add the bacon, carrots, onions, spice, herbs, and seasoning; pour in about a pint of boiling water, and stew gently for 2 hours on a very slow fire. When done, skim off the fat, take out the herbs, and flavour the gravy with a little tomato sauce and ketchup. Have ready the peas and potatoes, boiled separately; put them with the veal, and serve. Time,—2 hours. Average cost, 2s. 9d, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from June to August with peas ;—rather earlier when these are omitted. SCOTCH COLLOPS (Cold Meat Cookery). 870. INGKEDIENTS.—The remains of cold roast veal, a little butter, flour, I pint of water, 1 onion, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 tablespoon- ful of lemon-juice, ^ teaspoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel, 2 table- spoonfuls of sherry, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Mode.—Cut the veal the same thickness as for cutlets, rather larger than a crown-piece; flour the meat well, and fry a light brown in butter; dredge again with flour, and add i pint of water, pouring it in by degrees; set it on the fire, and when it boils, add the onion and mace, and let it simmer very gently about J hour; flavour the gravy with lemon-juice, peel, wine, and ketchup, in the above proportion; give one boil, and serve. Time.—% hour. Seasonable from March to October. SCOTCH COLLOPS, WHITE (Cold Meat Cookery). 871. iNGEEDiENTS.—The remains of cold roast veal, J teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, 2 blades of pounded mace, cayenne and salt to taste,