416 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. fricandeau. Stew very gently for 3 hours; glaze, and serve it on sorrel, spinach, or with a little gravy in the dish. Time.—Z hours. Average cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for an entree. Seasonable from March to October j^^ote.—When the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole ; con- sequently, to use this for a fricandeau is rather extravagant. The best end of the neck answers the purpose nearly or quite as well. BOILED CALF'S HEAD (with the Skin on). 876. Ingredients.—Calf s head, boiling water, bread crumbs, 1 large bunch of parsley, butter, white pepper and salt to taste, 4 table- spoonfuls of melted butter, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 or 3 grains of cayenne. Mode.—'Tilt the head into boiling water, and let it remain by the side of the iire for 3 or 4 minutes ; take it out, hold it by the ear, and with the back of a knife, scrape off the hair (should it not come off easily, dip the head again into boiling water). When perfectly clean, take the eyes out, cut off the ears, and remove the brain, which soak for an hour in warm water. Put the head into hot water to soak for a few minutes, to make it look white, and then have ready a stewpan, into which lay the head; cover it with cold water, and bring it gra- dually to boil. Remove the scum, and add a little salt, which assists to throw it up. Simmer it very gently from 2^ to 3 hours, and when nearly done, boil the brains for ^ hour; skin and chop them, not too finely, and add a tablespoonful of minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Season with pepper and salt, and stir the brains, parsley, &c., into about 4 tablepoonsfuls of melted butter; add the lemon-juice and cayenne, and keep these hot by the side of the fire. Take up the head, cut out the tongue, skin it, put it on a small dish with the brains round it; sprinkle over the head a few bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley ; brown these before the fire, and serve with a tureen of parsley and butter, and either boiled bacon, ham, or pickled pork as an accompaniment. Time.—2i to 3 hours. Average cost, according to the season, from 3s. to 7s. Gd, Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Seasonable from March to October. BOILED CALF'S HEAD (without the Skin). 877. Ingeedients.—Calf s head, water, a little salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice.