SAUCES, ETC. 237 the purpose, but we cannot undertake to recommend it as a mode of making this delicious adjunct to fish, &c. PAKSIiEY AND BUTTEK, to serve with Calf's Head, Boiled Fowls, &c. 493. Ingeedients.—2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, | pint of melted butter, No. 376. Mode—'Fnt into a saucepan a small quantity of water, slightly salted, and when it boils, throw in a good bunch of parsley which has been preyiously washed and tied together in a bunch; let it boil for 5 minutes, drain it, mince the leaves ver7j fine, and put the above quantity in a tureen; pour over it i pint of smoothly-made melted butter; stir once, that the ingredients may be thoroughly mixed, and serve. Tiine.—5 minutes to boil the parsley. Average cost, 4,d. Sufficient for 1 large fowl; allow rather more for a pair. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Sometimes, in the middle of winter, parsley-leaves are not to be had, when the following will be found an excellent substitute:—Tie up a little parsley-seed in a small piece of muslin, and boil it for 10 minutes in a small quantity of water; use this water to make the melted butter with, and throw into it a little boiled spinach, minced rather fine, which will have an appearance similar to that of parsley. Pakslet.—If there be nothing new under the sun, there are, at any rate, different uses found for the same thing; for this pretty aromatic herb was used in ancient times, as we learn from mythological narrative, to adorn the head of a hero, no less than Hercules ; and now—^vas ever fall so great ?—we moderns use it in connection with the head of—a calf. According to Homer's "Iliad," warriors fed their chariot-steeds on parsley; and PHny acquaints us with the fact that, as a symbol of mourning, it was admitted to furnish the funeral tables of the Eomans. Egypt, some say, first produced this herb ;. thence it was introduced, by some unknown voyager, into Sardinia,where the Carthaginians found it, and made it known to the inhabitants of Marseihes. (^See No. 123.) PEISD PAKSLEY, for GarnisMng. 494- Ingredients.—Parsley, hot lard or clarified dripping*. JfocZe.—Gather some young parsley; wash, pick, and dry it tho- rougly in a cloth ; piit it into the wire basket of which we have given an engraving, and hold it in boiling lard or dripping for a minute or two. Directly it is done, lift out the basket, and let it stand before the fire, that the parsley may become thoroughly crisp ; and the quicker it