213 SAUCES; ETC. lilode.—Viit all the ingredients into a stewpan, except the thick- ening and lemon-juice, and let them simmer very gently for rather more than 1 hour^ or until the liquor is reduced to a pint, when strain through a hair-sieve. Add a thickening of butter and flour, and the lemon-juice ; set it on the fire, and let it just boil up, when it will be ready for use. It may be flavoured with a little tomato sauce, and, where a rather dark-coloured gravy is not objected to, ketchup, or Harvey's sauce, may be added at pleasure. Time.—liath.eT more than 1 hour. Average cost, Zd» GSAVIT FOU VENISOIT. 444. IisGPvEDiEKTS.—Trimmings of venison, 3 or 4 mutton shank- bones, salt to taste, 1 pint of water, 2 teaspoonfuls of walnut ketchup. ? 3fode.—Brown the trimmings over a nice clear fire, and put them in a stewpan with the shank-bones and water ; simmer gently for 2 hours, strain and skim, and add the walnut ketchup and a seasoning of salt. Let it just boil, when it is ready to serve. Tt7ne.—2 hours. Vejtisoit.—Far, far away in ages past, our fathers loved the chase, and what it brought; and it is usually imagined that when Isaac otdered his son Esau to go out with his weapons, his quiver and his bow, and to prepare for him savoury meat, such as he loved, that it was venison he desired. The vase Solomon, too, delighted in this kind of fare; for we learn that, at his table, every day were served the vnld ox, the roebuck, and the stag. Xenophon informs us, in his History, that Cyrus, king of Persia, ordered that the beer. venison should never bo wanting at his repasts; and of the effeminate Greeks it was the dehght. The Komans, also, were devoted admirers of the flesh of the deer; and our own kings and princes, from the Great Alfred down to the Prince Consort, have hunted, although, it must be confessed, vinder vastly different circumstances, the swift buck, and relished their "haunch" all the more keenly, that they had borne themselves bravely in the pursuit of the animal. TO DUY HBBBS FOB WINTER USE. 445. On a very dry day, gather the herbs, just before they begin to flower. If this is done when the weather is damp, the herbs will not be so good a colour. (It is very necessary to be particular in little matters like this, for trifles constitute perfection, and herbs nicely diie 1 will be found very acceptable when frost and snow are on the ground. It is hardly necessary, however, to state that the flavour and fragrance of fresh herbs are incomparably finer.) They should be perfectly freed from dirt and dust, and be divided into small bunches, with their roots cut ofi". Dry them quickly in a very hot oven, or before the fire, as by this means most of their flavour will be preserved, and be careful