SAUCES, ETC. CAMP VINEGAR. 381. Ingredients.—1 head of garlic, J oz. cayenne, 2 teaspoonfuls of soy, 2 ditto walnut ketcliup, 1 pint of vinegar, cochineal to colour. Mode.—Slice the garlic, and put it, with all the above ingredients, into a clean bottle. Let it stand to infuse for a month, when strain it off quite clear, and it will be fit for use. Keep it in small bottles well sealed, to exclude the air. Average cost for this quantity, Sd, CAPEH SAUCB FOS BOILED MUTTON. 382. Ingredients.—i pint of melted butter (No. 376), 3 tablespoon- fuls of capers or nasturtiums, 1 tablespoonful of their liquor. Mode.—Chop the capers twice or thrice, and add them, with their liquor, to J pint of melted butter, made very smoothly; keep stirring well; let the sauce just simmer, and serve in a tureen. Pickled nasturtium-pods are fine-fiavoured, and by many are eaten in preference to capers. They make an excellent sauce. Time.—2 minutes to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, Sd, Sufficient to serve with a leg of mutton. CAPER SAUCE FOR FISH 383. Ingredients.—^ pint of melted butter No. 876, 3 dessertspoon- fuls of capers, 1 dessertspoonful of their liquor, a small piece of glaze, if at hand (this may be dispensed with), j teaspoonful of salt, ditto of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of anchovy essence. Mode.—Cut the capers across once or twice, but do not chop them fine; put them in a saucepan with i pint of good melted butter, and add all the other ingredients. Keep stirring the whole until it just simmers, when it is ready to serve., Time.—1 mimite to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, 5d. Sufficient to serve with a skate, or 2 or 3 slices of salmon. Capeks.—These are tLe Tinopened buds of a low trail- ing shrub, which grows wild among the crevices of the rocks of Greece, as well as in northern Africa; the plant, however, has come to be cultivated in the south of Europe. After being pickled in vinegar and salt, they are imported from Sicily, Italy, and the south of France. The best are from Toulon. THE CAPEB.