810 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. the art of cookery. The lightest way of dressing them is by jioaching, which is effected by putting them for a minute or two into brisk boiUng water: this coagulates the external white, without doing the inner part too much. Eggs are much better when new-laid than a day or two afterwards. The usual time allotted for boiling eggs in the shell is 3 to 3| minutes : less time than that in boiling water will not be sufficient to solidify the white, and more will make the yolk hard and less digestible: it is very difficult to gues.s accurately as to the time. Great care should be employed in putting them into the water^ to prevent cracking the shell, which inevitably causes a portion of the white to exude, and lets water into the egg. Eggs are often beaten up ra\7 in nutritive beverages. 1624. Eggs are employed in a very great many articles of cookery, entries, and entremets, and they form an essential ingredient in pastry, creams, flip, &c. It is particularly necessary that they should be quite fresh, as nothing is Vv^orse than stale eggs. Cobbett justly says, stale, or even preserved eggs, are tilings to be run from, not after. 1625. The Metropolis is supplied with eggs from all parts of the kingdom, and they are likewise largely imported from various places on the continent; as France, Holland, Belgium, Guernsey, and Jersey. It appears from official statements mentioned in McCulloch's "Commercial Dictionary," that the number imported from France alone amounts to about 60,000,000 a year ; and supposing them on an average to cost fourpence a dozen, it follows that we pay our continental neighbours above £83,000 a year for eggs. 1626. The eggs of different birds vary much in size and colour. Those of the ostrich are the largest: one laid in the menagerie in Paris weighed 2 lbs. 14 oz., held a pint, and was six inches deep: this is about the usual size of those brought from Africa. Travellers describe ostrich eggs as of an agreeable taste: they keep longer than hen's eggs, Drinking-cups aro often made of the shell, which is very strong. The eggs of the turkey are almost as mild as those of the hen; the egg of the goose is large, but well-tasted. Duck's eggs have a rich flavour; the albumen is slightly transparent, or bluish, v/hen set or coagulated by boiling, which requires less time than hen's eggs. Guinea-fowl eggs are smaller and more delicate than those of the hen. Eggs of uildfowl are generally coloured, often spotted ; and the taste gene- rally partakes somewhat of the flavour of the bird they belong to. Those of land birds that are eaten, as the plover^ lapimig, ruffy kc, are in general much esteemed ; but those of sea-fowl have, more or less, a strong fishy tastet The eggs of the turtle are very num.erous : they consist of yolk only, without shell, and arc delicious.