INVALID COOKEIiY, CHAPTER XXXVIII A FEW BULES TO BE OBSERVED lET COOEimG FOR INVALIDS. 1841. Let all tlie kitclien utensils used in the preparation of invalids* cookery be delicately and scncpulousl^ clean; if this is not the case, a disagreeable llavour may be imparted to the preparation, which flavour may disgust, and prevent the patient from partaking of the refreshment when brought to him or her. 1842. For invalids, never make a large quantity of one thing, as they seldom require m.uch at a time ; and it is desirable that variety be provided for them. 1843. Alv/ays have something in readiness; a little beef tea, nicely made and nicely skimmed, a few spoonfuls of jelly, &c. &c., that it may be admi- nistered as soon almost as the invalid wishes for it. If obliged to wait a long time, the patient loses the desire to eat, and often turns against the food when brought to him or her. 1844. In sending dishes or preparations up to invalids, let everything look as tempting as possible. Have a clean tray-cloth laid smoothly over the tray ; let the spoons, tumblers, cups and saucers, &c., be very clean and bright. Gruel served in a tumbler is more appetizing than when served in a basin or cup and saucer, 1845. milk is an important article of food for the sick, in warm weather let it be kept on ice, to prevent its turning sour. Many other delicacies may also be preserved good in the same manner for some little time. 1846. If the patient be allowed to eat vegetables, never send them up undercooked, or half raw ; and let a small quantity only be temptingly arranged on a dish. This rule will apply to every preparation, as an invalid is much more likely to enjoy his food if small delicate pieces are served to him. 1847. ^^ever leave food about a sick room; if the patient cannot eat it when brought to him, take it away, and bring it to him in an hour or two's time. Miss Nightingale says, "To leave the patient's untasted food by his side, from meal to meal, in hopes that he will eat it in the interval; is simply