POULTRY. 475 TYme.—Large fowl, nearly or quite 1 hour. Average cost^ in full season, 2s. Qcl. each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable all the year, but scarce in early spring*. Note.—Sausage-meat stuffing may be substituted for the above : this is now a very general mode of serving fowl. Pencilled Hambueg.—This variety of the Hamliurg fowl is of two colours, golden and silver, and is very minutely marked. The hens of both should have the body clearly pencilled across with several bars of black, and the hackle in both sexes should be perfectly free from dark marks. The cocks do not exhibit the pencillings, but are white or brown in the golden or silver birds respectively. Their form is compact, and their atti- tudes graceful and sprightly. The hens do not sit, bat lay extremely well; hence one of their common names, that of Dutch every-day layers. They are also known in different parts of the country, as Chitteprats, Creoles, or Corals, Bolton bays and grays, and, in some parts of Yorksliu-e, by the wrong name of Corsican fowls. They pencilled hambuegs. are imported in large numbers from Holland, but those bred in this country are greatly superior in size. GIBIiST PIE. 966. Ingeedients.—A set of duck or goose giblets, 1 ib. of mmp- steak, 1 onion, i teaspooniul of whole black pepper, a bunch of savoury herbs, plain crust. ilfo^/e.—Clean, and put the giblets into a stewpan with an onion, whole pepper, and a bunch, of savoury herbs; add rather more than a pint of water, and simmer gently for about 1| hour. Take them out, let them cool, and cut them into pieces ; line the bottom of a pie-dish, with a few pieces of rump-steak; add a layer of giblets and a few more pieces of steak; season with, pepper and salt, and pour in the gravy (which should be strained), that the giblets were stewed in; cover with a plain crust, and bake for rather more than li- hour in a brisk oven. Cover a piece of paper over the pie, to prevent the crust taking too much, colour. Time.—li hour to stev/ the giblets, about 1 hour to bake the pie. Average cost, exclusive of the giblets, Is. id. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. The Bkekt Goose.—This is the smallest and most numerous species of the geese which ^'isit the British islands. It makes its appearance in winter, and ranges over the whole of the coasts and estuaries frequented by other migrant geese. Mr. Selby states that a vary la'rge body of these birds annually resort to the extensive sandy and muddy flats which lis between the mainland and Holy Island, on the Northumbrian coast, and which are covered by every flow of the tide. This part of the coast appears to havo