625 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. when seiTed, witli sifted loaf sugar. This pudding is also very good with the apples pared, sliced, and mixed with the batter. Time.—1 hour. Average cost^ dd. /Sufficient for 5 or G persons. BOILED APPLE PUDDING. 1-232. Ingeedients.—Crust I^o. 1215, apples, sugar to taste, 1 small teaspoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon- juice. J/of?5.—Make a butter-crust by recipe No. 1213, or a suet one by recipe No. 1215, using for a moderate-sized pudding from f to 1 lb. of Hour, with the other ingredients in proportion. Butter a basin; line it with some of the paste ; pare, core, and cut the apples into slices, and fill the basin with these; add the sugar, the lemon-peel and juice, and cover with crust; pinch the edges together, flour the cloth, place it over the pudding, tie it securely, and put it into plenty of fast-boiling water. Let it boil from 1^ to 2^ hours, according to the size; then turn it out of the basin and send to table quickly. Apple puddings may also be boiled in a cloth without a basin; but, when made in this way, must be served without the least delay, as the crust so soon becomes heavy. Apple pudding is a very convenient dish to have when the dinner-hour is rather uncertain, as it does not spoil by being boiled an extra hour;' care, however, must be taken to keep it well covered v/ith the water all the time, and not to allow it to stop boiling. Time.—From li to 2| hours, according to the size of the pudding and the quality of the apples. Average cost, lOd. Sufficient, made with 1 lb. of flour, for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable from August to March ; but the apples become flavour- less and scarce after February. APPLE TABT OH PIE. 1233. Ingbedients.—-Puff-paste'No. 1205 or 120G, apples; to every lb. of unpared apples allow 2 oz. of moist sugar, i teaspoonful of finely-minced lemon-peel, 1 tablespoonfiil of lemon-juice. Mode,—Make | lb. of puff-paste by either of the above-named recipes, place a border of it round the edge of a pie-dish,'and fill it with apples pared, cored, and cut into slices; sweeten with moist sugar, add the lemon-peel and juice, and 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of water; cover with crust, cut it evenly round close to the edge of the pie-dish, and bake I in a hot oven from ^ to f hour, or rather longer, should the pie be 2 s