199- SAUCES, ETC. FORCEMEAT BALLS FOB FISH SOUPS. 414. Ingredients.—1 middling-sized lobster, i an anchovy, 1 liead of 'boiled celery, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste ; 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs. 3Iode.—Tick the meat from the shell of the lobster, and pound it, with the soft parts, in a mortar; add the celery, the yolk of the hard- boiled egg, Beasoning, and bread crumbs. Continue pounding till the whole is nicely amalgamated. Warm the butter till it is in a liquid state; well whisk the eggs, and work these up with the pounded lobster-meat. Make into balls of about an inch in diameter, and fry of a nice pale brown. Siffficient, from 18 to 20 balls for 1 tureen of soup. FORCEMEAT FOB COLD SAVOUBT PIES. 415. Ingredients.—1 lb. of veal, 1 lb. of fat bacon; salt, cayenne, pepper, and pounded mace to taste; a very little nutmeg, the same of chopped lemon-peel, | teaspoonful of chopped parsley, h teaspoonful of minced savoury herbs, 1 or 2 eggs. If ode.—Chop the veal and bacon together, and put them in a mortar with the other ingredients mentioned above. Pound well, and bind with 1 or 2 eggs which have been pre- viously beaten and strained. Work the whole well together, and the forcemeat will be ready for use. If the pie is not to be eaten imme- diately, omit the herbs and parsley, as these would prevent it from keeping. Mushrooms or truiB.es may be added. Sufficient for 2 small pies. Marjoeam.—Although there are several species of mar- joram, that which is known as the sweet or knotted marjoram, is the one usually preferred in cookery. It is a native of Portugal, and when its leaves are used as a seasoning herb, they have an agreeable aromatic flavour. The winter sweet Marjokam. marjoram used for the same purposes, is a native of Greece, and the pot-marjoram is another variety brought from Sicily, Ali of them are favourite ingredients in soux^s, stulHugs, &c. POBOEMEAT FOB PIKE, CABP, HADDOCK, AHD VABIOUS KINDS OF PISH. 416. Ingeedients,—1 oz. of fresh butter, 1 oz. of suet, 1 oz. of fat bacon, 1 small teaspoonful of minced savoury herbs, including parsley;