MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 514 feathers begin to appear, first about tbe sides and breast. Their food consists of the tops of birch and heath, except when the mountain berries are ripe, at which period they eagerly and even voraciously pick the bilberries and cranberries from the bushes. Large numbers of these birds are found in Norway, almost rivalling the turkey in point of size. Some of them have begun to be imported into London, where they are vended in the shops; but the flavour of their flesh is not equal to that of the Scotch bird. HASHED WILD DUCK. 1020. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast wild duck, 1 pint of good brown gravy, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 1 glass of claret, salt, cayenne, and mixed spices to taste ; 1 tablespoonful of lemon or Seville orange-juice. 3fode,—Cut the remains of the duck into neat joints, put them into a stewpan, with all the above ingredients ; let them get gradually hot by the side of the fire, and occasionally stir the contents; when on the point of boiling, serve, and garnish the dish with sippets of toasted bread. Tme.—About 5 hour. Seasonable from November to February. BAGOUT OP WILD DUCK. 1021. Ingeedients.—2 wild ducks, 4 shalots, 1 pint of stock Ko. 105, 1 glass of port wine, 1 oz. of butter, a little flour, the juice of I lemon, cayenne and salt to taste. 3Iode.—D\xGks that have been dressed and left from the preceding day will answer for this dish. Cut them into joints, reserve the legs, wings, and breasts until wanted ; put the trimmings into a stewpan with the shalots and stock, and let them simmer for about i hour, and strain the gravy. Put the butter into a stewpan ; when melted, dredge in a little flour, and pour in the gravy made from the bones; give it one boil, and strain it again; add the wine, lemon-juice, and cayenne; lay in the pieces of duck, and let the whole gradually warm through, but do not allow it to boil, or the duck will be hard. The gravy should not be too thick, and should be very highly seasoned. The squeeze of a Seville orange is a great improvement to this dish. Tune.—About | hour to make the gravy ; i hour for the duck gradually to warm through. Seasonable from JSTovember to February. BOAST WILD DUCK. 1022. Ingeedients.—Wild duck, flour, butter. lfo<fe.—Carefully pluck and draw them; cut oiF the heads close to the necks, leaving sufficient skin to turn over, and do not cut oif the