MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 788 they become perfectly tender, changing the water 2 or 3 times ; drain them, take off the rind, remove the pips from the pulp, weigh it, and to every lb. allow 1J of loaf sugar and ^ pint of the water the oranges were last boiled in. Boil the sugar and water together for 10 minutes; put in the pulp, boil for another 10 minutes; then add the peel cut into strips, and boil the marmalade for another 10 minutes, which completes the process. Pour it into jars ; let it cool; then cover down with bladders, or tissue-paper brushed over on both sides with the white of an egg. Time—2 hours to boil the oranges; altogether i- hour to boil the marmalade. Average cost, from 6d. to 8c?. per lb. pot. Seasonable —Make this in March or April. OBANGE MARMALADE MADE WITH HONEY. 1569. Ingeedients.—To 1 quart of the juice and pulp of Seville oranges allow 2 lbs. of honey, 1 lb. of the rind. Mode,—Peel the oranges and boil the rind in water until tender, and cut it into strips. Take away the pips from the juice and pulp, and put it with the honey and chips into a preserving-pan ; boil all together for about i hour, or until the marmalade is of the proper consistency; put it into pots, and, when cold, cover down with bladders. Time.—2 hours to boil the rind, i hour the marmalade. Average cost, from 7d. to 9d. per lb. pot. Seasonable,—Make this in March or April. TO PRESEBVE ORANGES. 1570- InGEEDiENTS.—Oranges; to every lb. of juice and pulp allow 2 lbs. of loaf sugar; to every pint of water i lb. of loaf sugar. Mode,—Wholly grate or peel the oranges, taking off only the thin' outside portion of the rind. Make a small incision where the stalk is taken out, squeeze out as much of the juice as can be obtained, and preserve it in a basin with the pulp that accompanies it. Put the oranges into cold water; let them stand for 3 days, changing the water twice; then boil them in fresh water till they are very tender, and put them to drain. Make a syrup with the above proportion of sugar and water, sufficient to cover the oranges ; let them stand in it' for 2 or 3 days ; then drain them well. Weigh the juice and pulp, allow double their weight of sugar, and boil them together until the scum ceases to rise, which must all be carefully removed; put in thS