132 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. potatoes, adding the parsley and seasoning; make the whole into a cake with the white of an egg, brush it over with egg, cover with bread crumbs, and fry of a light brown; strain the gravy, pour it over, and stew gently for J hour, stirring it carefully once or twice. Serve hot, and garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Time.—h hour, after the gravy is made. BOILED FLOUNDERS. 259. Ingredients.—Sufficient water to cover the flounders, salt in the proportion of 6 oz. to each gallon, a little vinegar. Idocle.—Put on a kettle with enough water to cover the flounders, lay in the fish, add salt and vinegar in the above proportions, and when it boils, simmer very gently for 5 minutes. They must not boil fast, or they will break. Serve with plain melted butter, or parsley and butter. 2Vmc.—After the water boils, 5 minutes. Average cost, 3d. eacli. Seasonable from August to Novem- ber. The Floundee.—This comes under tlie tribe usually denominated Flat-fish, and is generally- held in the smallest estimation of any among them. It is an inhabitant of both the seas and the rivers, while it thrives in ponds. On the rLOUNDEES. English coasts it is very abundant, and the London market consumes it in largo quantities. It is considered easy of digestion, and the Thames flounder is esteemed a delicate fish. FBIED FLOUNDERS. 260. Ingiiediekts.—Flounders, egg, and bread crumbs; boiling lard. 3Iode.—Cleanse the fish, and, two hours before they are wanted, rub them inside and out with salt, to render them firm; wash and wipe them very dry, dip them into egg, and sprinkle over with bread crumbs ; fry them in boiling lard, dish on a hot napkin, and garnish with crisped parsley. Tww.—Yrom 5 to 10 minutes, according to size. Average cost, Zd. each. Seasonable from August to November. SuJ^cient, 1 for each person. GUDGEONS. 261. Ingredients. — Egg and bread crumbs sufficient for the quantity of fish ; hot lard. IIode—Bo not scrape of the scales, but take out the gills and