1027 IlEARI^"G, ETC., OF CHILDREN. sharpening the perception of touch and feeling. At the same instant, and in overy part, the arteries, like innumerable bees, are everywhere laying down layers of muscle, bones, teeth, and, in fact, like the coral zoophyte, building up a continent of life and matter ; while the veins, equally busy, are carrying away the debris and refuse collected from where the zoophyte arteries are building,—this refuse, in its turn, being conveyed to the liver, there to be con- verted into bile. 2452. All these—and they are but a few of the vital actions constantly taking place—are the instant result of one gasp of life-giving air. No subject can bo fraught with greater interest than watching the first spark of life, as it courses with electric speed " through all the gates and alleys " of the soft, insensate body of the infant. The effect of air on the new-born child is as remarkable in its results as it is wonderful in its consequence; but to understand this more intelligibly, it must first be remembered that life consists of the per- formance of three vital functions—Eespiration, Circulation, and Digestion. The lungs digest the air, taking from it its most nutritious element, the oxygen, to give to the impoverished blood that circulates through them. The stomach digests the food, and separates the nutriment—cAj/^e—from the aliment, which it gives to the blood for the development of the frame ; and the blood, which is understood by the term circulation, digests in its passage through the lungs the nutriment—chyle—to give it quantity and quality, and the oxygen from the air to give it vitality. Hence it will be seen, that, speak- ing generally, the three vital functions resolve themselves into one,—Digestion ; and that the lungs are the primary and the most important of the vital organs ; and respiration, the first in fact, as we all know it is the last in deed, of all the functions performed by the living body. The Lungs.—Bespiration. 2453. ^^'^^ effect of air on the infant is a slight tremor about the Hps and angles of the mouth, increasing to twitchings, and finally to a convulsive contraction of the lips and cheeks, the consequence of sudden cold to the nerves of the face. This spasmodic action produces a gasp, causing the air to rjish through the mouth and nostrils, and enter the wdndiDipe and upper portion of the flat and contracted lungs, which, like a sponge partly immersed in water, immediately expand. This is succeeded by a few faint sobs or pants, by which larger volumes of air are drawn into the chest, till, after a few seconds, and when a greater bulk of the lungs has become inflated, the breast-bone and ribs rise, the chest expands, and, with a sudden start, the infant gives utterance to a succession of loud, sharp cries, w^hich have the effect of filling every cell of the entire organ with air and life. To the anxious mother, the first voice of her child is, doubtless, the sweetest music she ever heard ; and the more loudly it peals, the greater should be her joy, as it is an indication of health and strength, and not only shows the perfect expansion of the lungs, but that the process of life has set in with vigour. Having 3 u 2