MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 253 c;4i. Brillat SaVARIN sa.ys, tliat raw flesh has but one inconvenience,— from its viscousness it attaches itself to the teeth. He goes on to say, that it is not, however, disagreeable ; but, when seasoned with salt, that it is easily digested. He tells a story of a Croat captain, w^hom he invited to dinner in 1815, during the occupation of Paris by the alHed troops. This officer was amazed at his host's preparations, and said, " When we are campaigning, and get hungry, we knock over the first animal we find, cut off a steak, powder it with salt, which we always have in the sabretasche, put it under the saddle, c^allop over it for half a mile, and then dine like princes." Again, of the huntsmen of Dauphiny it is said, that when they are out shooting in Sep- tember, they take with them both pepper and salt. If they kill a very fat bird, they pluck and season it, and, after carrying it some time in their caps, eat it. This, they declare, is the best way of serving it up. 542. Subsequently to the Croat Mode, which, doubtless, was in fashion in the earlier ages of the world, fire was discovered. This was an accident; for fire is not, although we are accustomed to call it so, an element, or spon- taneous. Many savage nations have been found utterly ignorant of it, and many races had no other way of dressing their food than by exposing it to the rays of the sun. 543. The Inhabitants of the Marian Islands, which wore discovered in 1521, had no idea of fire. Never was astonishment greater than theirs when they first saw it, on the descent of Magellan, the navigator, on one of their isles. At first they thought it a kind of animal, that fixed itself to and fed upon wood. Some of them, who approached too near, being burnt, the rest were terrified, and durst only look upon it at a distance. They were afraid, they said, of being bit, or lest that dreadful animal should wound with his violent respiration and dreadful breath ; for these were the first notions they formed of the heat and flame. Such, too, probably, were the notions the Greeks originally formed of them. 544. Fire having been Discovered, mankind endeavoured to make use^ of it for drying, and aftervrards for cooking their meat; but they were a considerable time before they hit upon proper and commodious methods of employing it in the preparation of their food. 545. Meat, then, placed on Burning Fuel was found better than when raw : it had more firmness, was eaten with less difficulty, and the ozmazome being condensed by the carbonization, gave it a pleasing perfume and flavour. Still, however, the meat cooked on the coal would become somewhat befouled, certain portions of the fuel adhering to it. This disadvantage was remedied by passing spits through it, and placing it at a suitable height above the burn- ing fuel. Thus grilling was invented ; and it is well known that, simple as is this mode of cookery, yet all meat cooked in this way is richly and pleasantly favoured. In Homer's time, the art of cookery had not advanced much