183 SAUCrS, ETC. Average cost for this quantity, 2d, Cover with bladder to exclude the air, and in a week they will be fit for use. Average costy 3s. per gallon. Black Pepper.—This well-known aromatic spice is the fruit of a species of climbing vine, and is a native of the East Indies, and is extensively cultivated in Malabar and the eastern islands of Borneo, Sumatra, and Java, and others in the same latitude. It was formerly confined to these countries, but it has now been introduced to Cayenne. It is generally employed as a condiment; but it should never be forgotten, that, even in small quantities, it produces detrimental eifects on inflammatory constitutions. Dr. Paris, in his work on Diet, says, " Foreign spices were not intended by Nature for the inhabitants of temperate climes 5 they are heat- ir)g, and highly stimulant. I am, however, not anxious to give more weight to this objection than it deserves. Man is no longer the child of I^atiire, nor the passive inhabitant of any particular region. He ranges over every part of the globe, and elicits nourishment from the productions of every climate. Nature is very kind in favouring the growth of those productions which are most likely to answer our local wants. Those climates, for instance, which engender endemic diseases, are, in general, congenial to the growth of plants that operate as antidotes to them. But if we goto the East for tea, there is no reason why we should not go to the West for sugar. The dyspeptic mvalid, however, should be cautious in their use; they may alford temporary benefit, at the expense of permanent mischief. It has been well said, that the best quality of spices is to stimulate the appetite, and their worst to destroy, by insensible degrees, the tone of the stomach. The intrinsic goodness of meats should always be suspecte'il when they require spicy seasonings to compensate for their natural want of sapidity." The quahty of pepper is known by rubbing it between the hands : that which withs^^^ib'ids this operation is good, that which is reduced to powder by it is bad. The quantity of pepper imported into Europe is very great. BENTON SAUCS (to serve witb. Hot or Cold Koast Beef). 370. Ingkedients.—1 tablespoonful of scraped horseradish, 1 tea- spoonful of made mustard, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 4 table- spoonfuls of -vinegar. Ifode.—Grate or scrape the horseradish very fine, and mix it with the other ingredients, wLich must be all well blended together; serve in a tureen. With cold meat, this sauce is a very good substitute for pickles. BKSAD SAUCE (to serve with Boast Turkey, Fov^rl, Game, &c.). I. 371. Ingeedients.—1 pint of milk, fib. of the crumb of a stale loaf, 1 onion; pounded mace, cayenne, and salt to taste; 1 oz. of butter. Mode.—Peel and quarter the onion, and simmer it in the milk till perfectly tender. Break the bread, which should be stale, into small pieces, carefully picking out any hard outside pieces; put it in a very BLACK PEPPEB,