MUTTOIT. BRAISED FILLET OF MUTTOU, with Freneli Beans. 707. In"geedients.—The chump end of a loin of mutton, biitteiecl paper, French beans, a little glaze, 1 pint of gravy. 3fode.—Roll up the mutton in a piece of buttered paper; roasl it for 2 hours, and do not allow it to acquire the least colour. Have ready some French beans, boiled, and drained on a sieve ; remove tlie paper from the mutton, glaze it; just heat up the beans in the gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. The remainder of the gravy may be strained, and sent to table in x tureen. 2t7ne,—2 hours. Average cost, Sid. per lb. Sv.-fficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonahle at any time. Various Qualities op Mutton.—Mutton is, unlouutedjj, the meat most generally used in families ; and, both b}^ connoisseurs and medical men, it stands first in favour, whether its fine flavour, digestible qualifications, or general wliolesomeness, be considered. Of all mutton, that furnished by the South-Down sheep is the most highly esteemed; it is also the dearest, on account of its scarcity, and the great demand for it. Therefore, if the housekeeper is told by the butcher that Ive has not any in his shop, it should not occasion disappointment to the purchaser. The London and other markets are chiefly' supplied with sheep called half-breeds, which are a cross between the Down and Lincoln or Leicester. These half-breeds make a greater weight of mutton than the true South- Downs, and, for this very desirable qualillcation, they are preferred by the great sheep- masters. The legs of this mutton range from 7 to 11 lbs. in weight; the shoulders,, necks, or loins, about 6 to 9 lbs.; and if care is taken not to purchase it too fat, it will be found the most satisfactory and economical mutton that can be bought. BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON. 708. Ingeedients.—1 small leg of mutton, 4 carrots, 3 onions, 1 faggot of savoury herbs, a bunch of parsley, seasoning to taste of pepper and salt, a few slices of bacon, a few veal trimmings, i pint of gravj^ or water. Mode.—Line the bottom of a braising-pan with a few slices of bacon, put in the carrots, onions, herbs, parsley, and seasoning, and over these place the mutton. Cover the whole with a few more slices of bacon and the veal trimmings, pour in the gravy or water, and stew very genthj for 4 hours. Strain the gravy, reduce it to a glaze over a sharp fire, glaze the mutton with it, and send it to table, placed on a dish of white haricot beans boiled tender, or garnished with glazed onions. Time.—4 hours. Average cost, os» Sufficient for G or 7 persons. Seasonable at any time. The Order op the GtOLDEN Fleece.—This order of knighthood was founded by Phihp the Good, duke of Burgundy, in 1429, on the day of his marriage Avith the Princess Isabella of Portugal. The number of the members was originally fixed at thirty-one, mcludmg the sovereign, as the head and chief of the institution. In 1516, Pope Leo X. consented to mcrease the number to fifty-two, including the head, In 1700 the erman