m MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. MELTED BUTTEB (the French Sauce Blanche). - 378. Ingredients.—i lb. of fresh butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, salt to taste, i gill of water, i spoonful of white Yinegai% a very little grated nutmeg. J/o^Zc?.—Mix the flour and water to a smooth batter, carefully rub- bing down with the back of a spoon any lumps that may appear. Put it in a saucepan with all the other ingredients, and let it thicken on the fire, but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste of the flour. Ti7ne.—1 minute to simmer. Average cost, 5cL for this quantity. l^"uTMEG.—Tliis is a native of tlie Moluccas, and was long kept frombeinf^ spread in other places by the monopolizing spirit of the Dutch, who endeavoured to keep it wholly to themselves by eradicating it from every other island. We find it stated in " Beeton's Dictionary of Universal Inform- ation," under the article *' Banda Islands," that the four largest are appropriated to the cultivation of nutmegs, of which about 500,000 lbs. are annually produced. The plant, through the enterprise of the British, has now found its way into Penang and Bencoolen, where it flourishes and pro- duces well. It has also been tried to be naturalized in the West Indies, and it bears fruit all the year round. There are IHS NUTMEG. two kinds of nutmeg,—one vfild, and long and oval-shaped, the other cultivated, and nearly round. The best is firm and bard, and has a strong aromatic odour, with a hot and acrid taste. It ought to be used ■virith caution by those who are of paralytic or apoplectic habits. THICKENED BUTTER. 379. Ingredients.—J pint of melted butter, Ko. 376, the yolks of 2 eggs, a little lemon-juice. Ifode—M^ke the butter quite hot, and be careful not to colour it. Yiell whisk the yolks of the eggs, pour them to the butter, beating them all the while. Make the sauce hot over the fire, but do not let it boil; add a squeeze of lemon-juice. MELTED BUTTER MADE WITH MILK. 380. Ingeedients.—1 teaspoonful of fiour, 2 oz. butter, 5 pint of milk, a few grains of salt. 3fode.—KiK the butter and flour smoothly together on a plate, put it into a lined saucepan, and pour in the milk. Keep stirring it one tvai/ovev a sharp fire; let it boil quickly for a minute or two, and it is ready to serve. This is a very good foundation for onion, lobster, or oyster sauce : using milk instead of water makes it look so much whiter and more delicate. Ti?ne,—Altogether, 10 minutes. Average cost for this quantity, 2d