LEGAL MEMORANDA. CHAPTER XLiy. 2694. Humorists tell us there is no act of our lives wliich can bo per- formed without breaking through some one of the many meshes of the law by which our rights are so carefully guarded ; and tliose learned in the law, when they do give advice without the usual fee, and in the confidence of friendship, generally say, *^Pay, pay anything rather than go to law;" while those having experience in the courts of Themis have a wholesome dread of its pitfalls. There are a few exceptions, however, to this fear of the law's uncertanties; and we hear of those to whom a lawsuit is an agreeabla relaxation, a gentle excitement. One of this class, when remonstrated with, retorted, that while one friend kept dogs, and another horses, he, as he had a right to do, kept a lawyer; and no one had a right to dispute his taste. We cannot pretend, in these few pages, to lay down even the principles of law, not to speak of its contrary exposition in different courts ; but there are a few acts of legal import which all men—and women too—must perform; and to these acts we may be useful in giving a right direction. There is a house to be leased or purchased, servants to be engaged, a will to be made, or property settled, in all families; and much of the welfare of its members depends on these things being done in proper legal form. 2695. Purchasing a House.—Few men will venture to purchase a free- hold, or even a leasehold property, by private contract, without making themselves acquainted with the locality, and employing a solicitor to examine the titles, ; but many do walk into an auction-room, and bid for a property upon the representations of the auctioneer. The conditions, whatever they are, will bind him ; for by one of the legal fictions of which we have still sa many, the auctioneer, who is in reality the agent for the vendor, becomes also the agent for the buyer, and by putting down the names of bidders and the biddings, he binds him to whom the lot is knocked down to the sale and the conditions,—the falling of the auctioneer's hammer is the acceptance of the offer, which completes the agreement to purchase. In any such trans- action you can only look at the written or printed particulars ; any verbal statement of the auctioneer, made at the time of the sale, cannot contradict them, and they are implemented by the agreement^ which the auctioneer calla