HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1018 draught between the window and the open chimney, and that the temperature of the room is kept about 61°. Where it is necessary to admit air by the door, the windows should be closed ; but there are few circumstances in which good air can be obtained through the chamber-door; through it, on the contrary, the gases generated in the lower parts of the house are likely to be drawn into the invalid chamber. 2419. These precautions taken, and plain nourishing diet, such as the patient desires, furnished, probably little more can be done, unless more seriou* sj^mptoms present themselves; in which case medical advice will be sought. 2420. Under no circumstances is ventilation of the sick-room so essential as in cases of febrile diseases, usually considered infectious ; such as typhus and puerperal fevers, influenza, hooping-cough, small- and chicken-pox, scarlet fever, measles, and erysipelas : all these are considered communicable through the air ; but there is little danger of infection being thus communicated, pro- vided the room is kept thoroughly ventilated. On the contrary, if this essen- tial be neglected, the power of infection is greatly increased and concentrated in the confined and impure air ; it settles upon the clothes of the attendants and visitors, especially where they are of wool, and is frequently commu- nicated to other families in this manner. 2421. Under all circumstances, therefore, the sick-room should be kept as fresh and sweet as the open air, while the temperature is kept up by artificial heat, taking care that the fire burns clear, and gives out no smoke into the room ; that the room is perfectly clean, wiped over with a damp cloth every day, if boarded; and swept, after sprinkling with damp tea-leaves, or other aromatic leaves, if carpeted; that all utensils are emptied and cleaned as soon as used, and not once in four-and-twenty hours, as is some- times done. ''A slop-pail," Miss Nightingale says, should never enter a sick-room; ever\^thing should be carried direct to the water-closet, emptied there, and brought up clean ; in the best hospitals the slop-pail is unknown." " I do not approve," says Miss Nightingale, " of making housemaids of nurses, —that would be waste of means; but I have seen surgical sisters, women whose hands were worth to them two or three guineas a week, down on their knees, scouring a room or hut, because they thought it was not fit for their patients : these women had the true nurse spirit." 2422. Bad smells are sometimes met by sprinkling a little liquid chloride of limo on the floor; fumigation by burning pastiles is also a common expedient for the purification of the sick-room. They are useful, but only in the sense hinted at by the medical lecturer, who commenced his lecture thus :—Fumi- gations, gentlemen, are of essential importance ; they make so abominable a smell, that they compel you to open the windows and admit fresh air." In this sense they are useful, but ineffectual unless the cause be removed, and fresh air admitted.