001 INVALID COOKERY. 1 3Iode.—M.ix the prepared groats smoothly with the cold water in a basin ; pour over them the boiling water, stirring it all the time. Put it into a very clean saucepan ; boil the gruel for 10 minutes, keeping it well stirred; sweeten to taste, and serve. It may be flavoured with a small piece of lemon-peel, by boiling it in the gruel, or a little grated nutmeg may be put in; but in these matters the taste of the patient should be consulted. Pour the gruel in a tumbler and serve. When wine is allowed to the invalid, 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry or port make this preparation very nice. In cases of colds, the same quantity of spirits is sometimes added instead of wine. Time—10 minutes. Sufficient to make a pint of gruel. INVALID'S JELIiT. 1B69. Iiq-GEEDiENTS.—12 shanks of mutton, 3 quarts of water, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 3 blades of mace, 1 onion, 1 lb. of lean beef, a crust of bread toasted brown. Mode,—Soak the shanks in plenty of water for some hours, and scrub them well; put them, with the beef and other ingredients, into a saucepan with the water, and let them simmer very gently for 5 hours. Strain the broth, and, when cold, take off all the fat. It may be eaten either warmed up or cold as a jelly. Time.—5 hours. Average cost, Is. Svfficient to make from I-2- to 2 pints of jelly. Seasonable at any time. LEMOISTADB FOR INVALIDS. 1870. Ingeedients.—^ lemon, lump sugar to taste, 1 pint of boiling water. 3Iode.—Pare off the rind of the lemon thinly ; cut the lemon into 2 or 3 thick slices, and remove as much as possible of the white out- side pith, and all the pips. Put the slices of lemon, the peel, and lump sugar into a jug; pour over the boiling water ; cover it closely, and in 2 hours it will be fit to drink. It should either be strained or poured off from the sediment. Time.—2 hours. Average costf 2d, Sufficient to make 1 pint of lemonade. Seasonable at any time. NOUBISHING LEMONADE, 1871. Ijtgeedients.—-li pint of boiling water, the juice of 4 lemons, the rinds of 2, J pint of sherry, 4 eggs, 6 oz. of loaf sugar. 3Iode,—Pare off the lemon-rind thinly, put it into a jug with the