ECONOMY OF THE KITCHEN. ns, pit, culm, slate, cannel, Kilkenny, sulphurous, bovey. Jet, &c. Theso have all their specific differences, and are employed for various purposes; but are all, more or less, used as fuel. The use of coal for burning purposes was not known to tlio Bomans. In Britain it was discovered about fifty years before the birth of Christ, in Lancashire, not far from where Manchester now stands; but for ages after its discovery, so long as forests abounded, wood continued to be the fuel used for Si-ing. The first public notice of coal is in the reign of Henry III,, who, in 1272, granted a charter to the town of Newcastle, permitting the inhabitants to dig for coal. It took some centuries more, how- ever, to bring it into common use, as this did not take place till about the first quarter of the seventeenth century, in the time of Charles I. A few years after the Kestoration, we find that about 200,000 chaldrons were consumed in London. Although several countries possess mines of coal, the quahty of their mineral is, in general, greatly inferior to that of Great Britain, where it is f<^und mostly in undulating districts abounding with valleys, and interspersed with plains of considerable extent. It lies usually between the strata of other substances, and rarely in an horizontal position, but with a dip or inclination to one side. Our cut, Fig. 21, represents a section of coal as it is found in the stratum. Fig. 21. 74. To BE ACQUAINTED WITH THE PERIODS when things are in season, is one of the most essential pieces of knowledge which enter into the '^Arfc of Cookery." We have, therefore, compiled the following list, which will serve to show for every month in the year the TIMES WHEN THINGS AEE IN SEASON. JANITABY. JiSH.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod, crabs, crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, had- docks, herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, turbot, whitings. Meat.—Beef, house lamb, mutton, pork, veal, venison. Poultry.—Capons, fowls, tame pigeons, pullets, rabbits, turkeys. Game.—Grouse, hares, partridges, pheasants, snipe, wild-fowl, woodcock. Vegetables.—Beetroot, broccoli, cabbages, carrots, celery, chervil, cresses, cucumbers (forced), endive, lettuces, parsnips, potatoes, savoys, spinach, tur- nips,—various herbs. Fruit.-—Apples, grapes, medlars, nuts, oranges, pears, walnuts, crystallized preserves (foreign), dried fruits, such as almonds and raisins; French and iSpanish plums; prunes, figs, dates. PEBBXTABY', Fish.—Barbel, brill, carp, cod may be bought, but is not so good as in January, crabs, crayfish, dace, eels, flounders, haddocks, herrings, lampreys, lobsters, mussels, oysters, perch, pike, plaice, prawns, shrimps, skate, smelts, soles, sprats, sturgeon, tench, thornback, tobot, whiting, D