148 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. them green with a little clioppcd parsley mixed with the bread crumbs. Serve anchovy or Dutch sauce, and plain melted butter with it. 2V/?ie.—According to size, 1 hour, more or less. Average cost.—Seldom bought. Seasonahle from September to March. Note.—Pike d la genevese may be stewed in the same manner as salmon d la genevese, PRIED PLAICE. 297. —Ingredients.—Hot lard, or clarified dripping ; egg and bread crumbs. 3fode.—This fish is fried in the same manner as soles. Wash and wipe them thoroughly dry, and let them remain in a cloth until it is time to dress them. Brush them over with egg, and cover with bread crumbs mixed with a little flour. Fry of a nice brown in hot dripping or lard, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Send them to table with shrimp-sauce and plain melted butter. Tune.—About 5 minutes. Average cost, 3d. each. Seasonahle from May to November. Sufficient, 4 plaice for 4 persons. JSFote.—Plaice may be boiled plain, and served with melted butter. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. STEWED PLAICE. 298. Ingeedients.—4 or 5 plaice, 2 onions, | oz. ground ginger, 1 pint of lemon-juice, I pint water, 6 eggs; cayenne to taste. Mode.—Cut the fish into pieces about 2 inches wide, salt them, and let them remain | hour. Slice and fry the onions a light brown; put them in a stewpan, on the top of which put the fish without w^ashing, and add the ginger, lemon-juice, and water. Cook slowly for i hour, and do not let the fish boil, or it will break. Take it out, and when the liquor is cool, add 6 well-beaten eggs; simmer till it thickens, when pour over the fish, and serve. Time.—% hour. Average cost for this quantity, Is. 9d. Seasonable from May to ITovember. Sufficient for 4 persons ; according to size. The Plaice—This fish is found both in the Baltic and the Mediterranean, andis also abundant on the coast of England. It keeps ^yell, and, like all ground-fish, is very tenacious of life. Its llesh is inferior to that of the sole, and, as it is THE PLAICE. a low-priced fish, it is generally bought by the poor. The best brought to the London market are called Bovcers plaice, frora their being caught in the Dowers, or flats, between Hastings and Folk stone.