MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Time,—25 to 35 minutes. Average cost, Is. Qd. to 25. a brace. Sufficient—2 for a dish. Seasonable from tlie 1st of September to the beginning of February. The PAETiiiDGE.--This bird is to be found in nearly all the temperate countries of Europe, but is most abundant in tlie Ukraine, although it is unable to bear the extremes of climate, whether hot or cold. It was formerly very common in France, and is considered a table luxury in England. The instinct of this bird is frequently exemplified in a remarkable manner, for the preservation of its young. " I have seen it often," says' a very celebrated writer, and an accurate observer of nature, "and once in particular, I saw an extraordinary instance of an old bird's solicitude to save its brood. As I was hunting with a young pointer, the dog ran on a brood of very small partridges; the old bird cried, fluttered, and ran tumbling along just before the dog's nose, till she had drawn him to a PAHTBIDGES, considerable distance, when she took wing, and flew still further olF, but not out of the field; on this the dog returned to me, near the place where the young ones lay concealed in the grass, which the old bird no sooner perceived than she flew back to us, settled just before the dog's nose again, and by rolling and tumbling about, drew off his attention from her young, and thus preserved her brood a second time. I have also seen, when a kite has been hovering over a covey of young partridges, the old birds fly up at the bird of prey, screaming and fighting with all their might to preserve their brood." Partridges should be chosen young; if old, they are valueless. The young ones are generally known by their yellow legs and dark-coloured bills. PHEASANT OUTLETS. 1040. iNaEEDiENTS.—2 or 3 pboasants, egg and bread crumbs, cayenne and salt to taste, brown gravy. Mode.—Procure 3 young pheasants that have been hung a few days; pluck, draw, and wipe them inside; cut them into joints; remove the bones from the best of these; and the backbones, trim- mings, &c., put into a stewpan, with a little stock, herbs, vegetables, seasoning, &c., to make the gravy. Flatten and trim the cutlets of a good shape, egg and bread crumb them, broil them over a clear fire, pile them high in the dish, and pour under them the gravy made from the bones, which should be strained, flavoured, and thickened. One of the small bones should be stuck on the point of each cutlet. Time.—10 minutes. Average cost, 2s. 6d. to 35. each. Sufficient for 2 entrees. Seasonable from the 1st of October to the beginning of February. nOAST PHEASANT. 1041. Ik-geediekts.—Pheasant, flour, butter. Clioosing and Trussing.—pheasants may be known by the length