833 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. yeast produces an imperfect fermentation, the result being a heavy unwhole- some loaf. 1677. When the dough is well kneaded, it is left to stand for some time, and then, as soon as it begins to swell, it is divided into loaves ; after which it is again left to stand, when it once more swells up, and manifests, for the last time, the symptoms of fermentation. It is then put into the oven, where the water contained in the dough is partly evaporated, and the loaves swell up again, while a yellow crust begins to form upon the surface. When the bread is sufficiently baked, the bottom crust is hard and resonant if struck with the finger, while the crumb is elastic, and rises again after being pressed down with the finger. The bread is, in all probability, baked sufficiently if, on opening the door of the oven, you are met by a cloud of steam which quickly passes away. 167S. One word as to the unwholesomeness of now bread and hot rolls. When bread is taken out of the oven, it is full of moisture ; the starch is held together in masses, and the bread, instead of being crusted so as to expose each grain of starch to the saliva, actually prevents their digestion by being formed by the teeth into leathery poreless masses, which lie on the stomach like so many bullets. Bread should always be at least a day old before it is eaten ; and, if properly made, and kept in a cool dry place, ought to be per- fectly soft and palatable at the end of three or four days. Hot rolls, swim- ming in melted butter, and new bread, ought to be carefully shunned by everybody who has the slightest respect for that much-injured individual— the Stomach. 1679. Aerated Bread.—It is not unknown to some of our readers that Dr. Dauglish, of Malvern, has recently patented a process for making bread ''light" without the use of leaven. The ordinary process of bread-making by fer- mentation is tedious, and much labour of human hands is requisite in the kneading, in order that the dough may be thoroughly interpenetrated with the leaven. The new process impregnates the bread, by the application of machinery, with carbonic acid gas, or fixed air. Different opinions are expressed about the bread ; but it is curious to note, that, as corn is now reajDcd by machiner}'', and dough is baked by machinery, the whole process of bread-making is probably in coui^se of undergoing changes which will eman- cipate both the housewife and the professional baker from a large amount of labour. 1680. In the production of Aerated Bread, wheaten flour, water, salt, and carbonic acid gas (generated by proper machinery), are the only materials employed. We need not inform our readers that carbonic acid gas is the source of the effervescence, whether in common water coming from a depth, or in lemonade, or any aerated drink. Its-actioU; in the new bread, takes the place of fermentation in the old. 3 H