GAME. fowl, N'o. 1000, reserving the thigh, which is considered a great deli- cacy, for the most honoured guests, some of whom may also esteem the brains of this bird. WILD DUCK. 1055. As game is almost universally served as a dainty, and not as a dish to stand the assaults of an altogether fresh appetite, these dishes are not usually cut up entirely, but only those parts are served of each, which are considered the best-flavoured and the primest. Of wild-fowl, the breast alone is considered by epicures worth eat- ing, and slices are cut from this, in the direction indicated by thelines, from 1 to 2 ; if necessary, the leg and wing can be taken ofF by passing the knife from 3 to 4, and by generally following the directions described for carving boiled fowl, No. 1000. BOAST HABB. 1056. The " Grand Carver " of olden times, a functionary of no ordi- nary dignity, was pleased when he had a hare to manipulate, for his skill and grace had an opportunity of dis- play. Diners d la Riisse may possibly, ere while, save modern gentlemen the neces- sity of learning the art which was in auld lang syne one of the necessary accomplish- ments of the youthful squire; but, until side-tables become universal, or till we see the oflice of ** grand carver " once more instituted, it will be well for all to learn how to assist at the carving of this dish, which, if not the most elegant in appearance, is a very general favourite. The hare, having its head to the left, as shown in the woodcut, should be first served by cutting slices from each side of the backbone, in the direction of the lines from 3 to 4. After these prime parts are disposed of, the leg should next be dis- engaged by cutting round the line indicated by the figures 5 to 6. The shoulders will then be taken 0^ by passing the knife round from 7 to 8. The back of the hare should now be divided by cutting quite through its spine, as shown by the line 1 to 2, taking care to feel with the point of the knife for a joint w^here the back may bo readily penetrated. It is the usual plan not to serve any bone in helping hare ; and thus the flesh should be sliced from the legs and placed alone on the plate. In large establishments, and where men-cooks are kept, it is often the case that the backbone of the hare, especially