192 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. for 5 minutes, when add either pounded mace or lemon-juice to taste, to give it a flavour. Time.—5 minutes to simmer. Average cost for this quantity. Id, This sauce may be flavoured with very finely-shredded shalot. CUCUMBEB SAUCE. 398. Ingeedients.—3 or 4 cucumbers, 2 oz. of butter, 6 tablespoon- fuls of brown gravy. 3Iode.—Peel the cucumbers, quarter them, and take out the seeds ; cut them into small pieces ; put them in a cloth, and rub them well, to take out the water which hangs about them. Put the butter in a saucepan, add the cucumbers, and shake them over a sharp fire until they are of a good colour. Then pour over it the gravy, mix this with the cucumbers, and simmer gently for 10 minutes, when it will be ready to serve. Altogether, h hour. PICKLED CUCUMBEB3. 399. Ingredients.—1 oz. of whole pepper, 1 oz. of bruised ginger; suflicient vinegar to cover the cucumbers. Mode.—Cwi the cucumbers in thick slices, sprinkle salt over them, and let them remain for 24 hours. The next day, drain them well for 6 hours, put them into a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. In a short time, boil up the vinegar again, add pep- per and ginger in the above proportion* and instantly cover them up. Tie them down with bladder, and in a few days they will be fit for use. Long Pepper.—This is the produce of a different plant from that which produces the black, it consisting of the half-ripe flower-heads of what naturalists call Fiper longum and cliaha. It is the gi'owth, however, of the same countries; indeed, all the spices are tho produce of tropical climates only. Originally, tho most valuable of these were found in the Spice Islands, or Moluccas, of the Indian Ocean, and were highly •„-r,»T,T,-r, prized by the nations of antiquity. The Romans in- LONG PEPPER. dulged in them to a most extravagant degree. The long pepper is less aromatic than the black, but its oil is more pungent. CUCUMBER SAUCE, WHITE. 400. Ingredients.—3 or four cucumbers, h pint of white stock, No. 107, cayenne and salt to taste, the yolks of 3 eggs. Mode—Qui the cucumbers into small pieces, after peeling them