HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT, 1000 To clean Floorclotli. 2335. After having waslied tliG floorcloth in the usual manner with a damp flannel, wet it all over with milk and rub it well with a dry cloth, when a most beautiful polish will be brought out. Some persons use for rubbing a well-waxed flannel; but this in general produces an unpleasant slipperiness, which is not the case with the milk. To clean Decanters. 2336. Boll up in small pieces some soft brown or blotting paper ; wet them, and soap them well. Put them into the decanters about one quarter full of v/arm water ; shake them well for a few minutes, then rinse vvith clear cold water ; wipe the outsides with a nice dry cloth, put the decanters to drain, and when dry they v/ill be almost as bright as new ones. To brigliten Gilt Frames. 2337. Take sufficient flour of sulphur to give a golden tinge to about 1^ pint of water, and in this boil 4 or 5 bruised onions, or garlic, which will answer the same purpose. Strain off the liquid, and with it, when cold, ^vash, wuth a soft brush, any gilding which requires restoring, and when dry it will come out as bright as new work. To preserve bright Grates or Fire-irons from Bust. 2338. Jlake a strong paste of fresh lime and water, and with a fine brush smear it as thickly as possible over all the polished surface requiring preserva- tion. By this simple means, all the grates and fire-irons in an empty house may be kept for months free from harm, without further care or attention. German Furniture-Gloss. 2339. Ingredients.—^ lb. yellow wax, 1 oz. black rosin, 2 oz. of oil of turpentine. Mode.—Cut the wax into small pieces, and melt it in a pipkin, with the rosin pounded very fine. Stir in gradually, while these two ingredients are quite warm, the oil of turpentine. Keep this composition well covered for use in a tin or earthen pot. A little of this gloss should be spread on a piece of coarse woollen cloth, and the furniture well rubbed with it; afterwards it should be polished with a fine cloth.