MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 290 1 onion, a small bunch of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, sufficient vinegar to cover the meat, glaze, Spanish sauce, No. 411. 3Iode.—Lard the beef with bacon, and put it into a pan with suffi- cient vinegar to cover it, with an onion sliced, parsley, and seasoning, and let it remain in this piclde for 12 hours. Roast it before a nice clear fire for about 1^ hour, and, v/hen done, glaze it. Pour some Spanish sauce round the beef, and the remainder serve in a tureen. It may be garnished v\^ith Spanish onions boiled and glazed. Time.—1 j hour. Average cost, exclusive of the sauce, 45. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. FEICAKTDEAU OP BEEF. 624. Ikgeedienis.—About 3 lbs. of the inside fillet of the sirloin (a piece of the rump may be substituted for this), pepper and salt to taste, 3 cloves, 2 blades of mace, 6 whole allspice, 1 pint of stock JSTo. 105, or water, 1 glass of sherry, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, 2 shalots, bacon. Mode—Cut some bacon into thin strips, and sprinkle over them a seasoning of pepper and salt, mixed with cloves, mace, and allspice, well pounded. Lard the beef with these, put it into a stewpan with the stock or water, sherry, herbs, shalots, 2 cloves, and more pepper and salt. Stew the meat gently until tender, when take it out, cover it closely, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and strain it. Set it on the fire, and boil, till it becomes a glaze. Glaze the larded side of the beef with this, and serve on sorrel sauce, which is made as follows:—Wash and pick some sorrel, and put it into a stewpan with only the water that hangs about it. Keep stirring, to prevent its burning, and when done, lay it in a sieve to drain. Chop it, and stew it with a small piece of butter and 4 or 5 tablespoonfuls of good gravy, for an hour, and rub it through a tammy. If too acid, add a little sugar; and a little cabbage-lettuce boiled with the sorrel will be found an improvement. Ti7ne—2 hours to gently stew the meat. Average cost, for this quantity, 45. Su-fficient for 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. FBIED SALT BEEP (Cold Meat Cookery). 625. Ingeedients.—A few slices of cold salt beef, pepper to taste, I lb. of butter, mashed potatoes. Mode,—Cut any part of cold salt beef into thin slices, fry them