228 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. oven, when they will slirivel considerably. Keep tliem in paper bags, which hang in a dry place. When wanted for use, put them into cold gravy, bring them gradually to simmer, and it will be found that they will regain nearly their usual size. The Musheoom.—The cultivated or garden mushroom is a speeies of fungus, which, in England, is considered the best, and is there usually eaten. The tribe, however, is nu- merous, and a large proportion of them are poisonous; hence it is always dangerous to make use of mushrooms gathered in their wild state. In some parts of Europe, as in Grer- mauy, Kussia, and Poland, many species grow wild, and are used as food; but in Britain, two only are generally eaten. These are mostly employed for the flavouring of dishes, and are also dried and piclded. Catsup, or Ketchup, is made from them by mixing spices and salt with their juice. The young, called buttons, are the best for pickUcg when in the globular form. THE MUSHROOM. BROWjSr MUSHPtOOM SAITOE, to serve witli Roast Meat, &c. 474. Ingeedients.—I pint of button muskrooms, i pint of good beef gravy, No. 435, 1 tablespoonfal of mushroom ketchup (if at hand), thickening of butter and flour. Mode.—Put the gravy into a saucepan, thicken it, and stir over the fire until it boils. Prepare the mushrooms by cutting off the stalks and wiping them free from grit and dirt; the large flap mushrooms cut into small pieces will answer for a brown sauce, when the buttons are not obtainable ; put them into the gravy, and let them simmer very gently for about 10 minutes; then add the ketchup, and serve. Time.—llather more than 10 minutes. Seasonable from August to October. JVote.—^Wlion fresh mushrooms are not obtainahle, the powder No. 477 may be used as a substitute for brown sauce. WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE, to serve with Boiled .Fowls, Cutlets, &c. I. 475. Ingeediekts.—Eather more than ^ pint of button mushrooms, , lemon-juice and water, 1 oz. of butter, J pint of Bechamel, ^0. 367, i teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Mode.—Turn the mushrooms white by putting them into lemon-juice and water, having previously cut off the stalks and wiped them per- fectly free from grit. Chop them, and put them in a stewpan with the butter. When the mushrooms are softened, add the Bechamel,