246 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. balls iTiado of fish, and also glazed onions or muslirooms. These, iioweTcr, should not be added to the matelote till it is dished. Tinie.—lO minutes. Average costy Is, Gd. Seasonable at any time. Note.—This sauce originally took its name as being similar to that which the French sailor {matelot) employed as a relish to the fish he caught and ate. In some cases, cider and perry were substi- tuted for the wine. The Norman matelotes wero very celebrated. The Bat.—We have already described ITo. 180) the difference between the cherry-laurel (Priimis Laurus cerasm) and the classic laurel {Laurus nohilis), the former only bein<^ used for culinary ixirposes. The latter beautiful evergreen was consecrated by the ancients to priests and heroes, and used in their sacrifices. " A crovrn of bay" was the earnestly- desired reward for great enterprises, and for the display of uncommon genius in oratory or writing. It was more par- ticularly sacred to Apollo, because, according to the fable, the nymph Daphne was changed into a laurel-tree. The ancients believed, too, that the laurel had the power of com- municating the gift of proi)hecy, as well as poetic genius; and, when they wished to procure pleasant dreams, would I)lace a sprig under the pillow of their bed. It was the symbol, too, of victory, and it was thought that the laurel could never be struck by lightning. From this word comes that of " laureateAlfred Tennyson being the present poet laureate, crowned wdth laurel as the first of living bards. SAUCE PIQUAITTE, for Cutlets, Boast Meat, &o. 513. Ingredients.—2 oz. of butter, 1 small carrot, 6 shalots, 1 small hunch of savoury herbs, including parsley, | a bay-leaf, 2 slices of lean ham, 2 cloves, 6 peppercorns, 1 blade of mace, 3 whole allspice, 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, J pint of stock (No. 104 or 105), 1 small lump of sugar, i saltspoonful of cayenne, salt to taste. Mode.—Put into a stewpan the butter, with the carrot and shalots, \ both of which must be cut into small slices; add the herbs, bay-leaf, spices, and ham (which must be minced rather finely), and let theso ingredients simmer over a slow fire, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brown glaze. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon, and put in the remaining ingredients. Simmer very gently for i hour, skim ofii" every particle of fat, strain the sauce through a sieve, and serve very hot. Care must be taken that this sauce be not made too acid, although it should possess a sharpness indicated by its name. Of course the above quantity of vinegar may be increased or diminished at pleasure, according to taste. Time.—Altogether i hour. Average cost^ \0d. Sufficient for a medium-sized dish of cutlets. Seasonable at any time.