715 CREAMS, JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. I bread and butter, and then one of apples, proceeding in this manner until the dish is full; then cover it up with the peel of the apples, to preserve the top from browning or burning ; bake in a brisk oven for \ rather more than | hour; turn the charlotte on a dish, sprinkle sifted sugar over, and serve. Time—% hour. Average cost, 9(L SaJBicient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from July to March. CHARLOTTE BUSSE. [ {An Elegant Swat Entremets.) 1421. Ingbedients.—About 18 Savoy biscuits, J pint of cream, fla- I vouring of vanilla, liqueurs, or wine, 1 tablespconful of pounded sugar, ^ oz. of isinglass. 3/oc/(?.—Procure about 18 Savoy biscuits, or ladies'-fingers, as they are sometimes called; brush the edges of them with the white of an. egg, and line the bottom of a plain round mould, placing them like a star or rosette. Stand them upright all round the edge; carefully put them so closely together that the white of the egg connects them firmly, and place this case in the oven for about 5 minutes, just to dry the egg. Whisk the cream to a stiff froth, with the sugar, fla- vouring, and melted isinglass ; fill the charlotte with it, cover with a slice of sponge-cake cut in the shape of the mould ; place it in ice, I where let it remain till ready for table; then turn it on a dish, remove I the mould, and serve. 1 tablespoonful of liqueur of any kind, or 4 table- I spoonfuls of wine, would nicely flavour the above proportion of cream. ! For arranging the biscuits in the mould, cut them to the shape I required, so that they fit in nicely, and level them with the mould I at the top, that, when turned out, there may be something firm to rest upon. Great care and attention is required in the turning out of this dish, that the cream does not burst the case; and the edgea of the biscuits must have the smallest quantity of egg brushed over them, or it would stick to the mould, and so prevent the charlotte from coming away properly. Time,—5 minutes in the oven. Average cost, with cream at Is. per.pint, Is. Qd. Sufficient for 1 charlotte. Seasonable at any time. CBEAM A LA VALOIS. 1422. Ingkedients.—4 sponge-cakes, jam, % pint of cream, sugar to taste, the juice of i lemon, ^ glass of sherry, 1^ oz, of isinglass. Mode,—Qut the sponge-cakes into thin slices; place two together, with preserve between them, and pour over tliem a small quantity of sherry mixed with a little brandy. Sweeten and flavour the cream