630 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. BAKEWEIili PUDDING-. {Very Rich.) I. 1242. IiTGEEDiENTS.—J lb. of puff-paste, 5 eggs, 6 oz. of sugar, :jlb. of butter, 1 oz. of almonds, jam. Mode.—QoYQV a dish with thin paste, and put over this a layer of any kind of jam, i inch thick; put the yolks of 5 eggs into a basin with the white of 1, and beat these well; add the sifted sugar, the butter, which should be melted, and the almonds, which should be well pounded ; beat all together until well mixed, then pour it into the dish over the jam, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. Time.—1 hour. Average cost. Is. 6d, Sifj/icient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. II. 12^3. I^-GEEDIENTS.—I pint of bread crumbs, 1 pint of milk, 4 eggs, 2 oz. of sugar, 3 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of pounded almonds, jam. 3£ode.—Fnt the bread crumbs at the bottom of a pie-dish, then over them a layer of jam of any kind that may be preferred; mix the milk and eggs together ; add the sugar, butter, and pounded almonds; beat all well together; pour it into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for 1 hour. Time.—I hour. Average cost, Is. Bd. to Is. 6d, Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. BAIlO]>TESS PUDDIHG. {AutlLor''s Recipe.) 1244. IisTGEEDiEiirTS.—| lb, of suct, f lb. of raisius weighed after being stoned, % lb. of flour, i pint of milk, | saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Prepare the suet, by carefully freeing it from skin, and chop it finely; stone the raisins, and cut them in halves, and mix both these ingredients with the salt and flour; moisten the whole with the above proportion of milk, stir the mixture well, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth, which has been previously wrung out in boiling water. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil, without ceasing, 44 hours. Serve merely with plain sifted sugar, a little of which may be sprinkled over the pudding. Ti?7ie.—4| hours. Average costy Is. 4.d. Si(fficie7it for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonable in winter, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. Note.—This pudding the editress cannot too highly recommend. The recipe T7as kindly given to her family by a lady who bore the title hero prefixed to