FHUir AKD VEGETABLE SOUPS. 61 BAKED SOUP. 115. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of any kind of meat, any trimmings or odd pieces; 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 oz. of rice, 1 pint of split peas, pepper and salt to taste, 4 quarts of water. Ilode.—Cut tlie meat and vegetables in slices, add to them the rice and peas, season with pepper and salt. Put the whole in a jar, fill up with the water, cover very closely, and bake for 4 hours. Ti7ne.—4 hours. Average cost, 2^d. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 10 or 12 persons. j^oie.—This will be found a very cheap and wholesome soup, and will bo convenient in those cases where baking is more easily performed than boiling. BABLEY SOUP. 116. In-guedients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, \ lb. of pearl barley, a large bunch of parsley, 4 onions, 6 potatoes, salt and pepper, 4 quarts of v/ater. 3Iode.—-Vx\t in all the ingredients, and simmer gently for 3 hours. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, 2\d. per quart. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable for winter. Earley.—This, in tlie order of cereal grasses, is, in Britain, the next plant to wheat in point of value, and exhibits several species and varieties. From what country it comes originally, is not tnown, but it was cultivated \l in the earHest ages of antiquity, as the Egyptians were afflicted with the y loss of it in the ear, in the time of Moses. It was a favourite grain with ' the Athenians, but it was esteemed as an ignominious food by the Eomans. i^^otwithstanding this, however, it was much used by them, as it was in former times by the English, and still is, in the Border counties, in Corn- wall, and also in Wales. In other parts of England, it is used mostly for malting purposes. It is less nutritive than wheat; and in 100 parts, has of starch 79, gluten 6, saccharine matter 7, husk 8. It is, however, a lighter and less stimulating food than wheat, which renders a decoction of it well adai)ted for invahds whose digestion is weak. BBEAD SOUP, {Economical.) 117. Ingeedie^sts.—1 lb. of bread crusts, 2 oz. butter, 1 quart of common stock. Mode.—Y^oW the bread crusts in the stock with the butter; beat the whole with a spoon, and keep it boiling till the bread and stock are well mixed. Season with a little salt. Time.—Half an hour. Average cost per quart, 4:d.