MILK, BUTTER, CHEESE, AND EGG3. 815 tlirougli. Put the butter into the cloth; twist it tig'htly over a dish, into which the butter will fall through the knot, so forming small and pretty little strings. The butter may then be garnished with parsley, if to serve with a cheese course; or it may be sent to table plain for breakfast, in an ornamental dish. Squirted butter for garnishing hams, salads, eggs, &c., is made by forming a piece of stiff paper in the shape of a cornet, and squeezing the butter in fine strings from the hole at the bottom. Scooped butter is made by dipping a teaspoon or seooper in warm water, and then scooping the butter quickly and thin. In warm weather, it would not be necessary to heat the spoon. Butter may be tept fresh for ten or twelve days by a very simple process. Knead it well in cold water till the buttermilk is exti-acted ; then put it in a glazed jar, which invert in auother, putting into the latter a suiiicient quantity of water to exclude the air. Renew the water every day. FAIRY BUTTER. 1636. IiTGEEDiENTS.—The yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 table- spoonful of orange-fiower water, 2 tablespoonfuls of pounded sugar, i lb. of good fresh butter. Mode—Be^it the yolks of the eggs smoothly in a mortar, witli the orange-flower water and the sugar, until the whole is reduced to a fine paste; add the butter, and force all through an old but clean cloth by wringing the cloth and squeezing the butter very ha^d. The butter will then drop on the plate in large and small pieces, according to the holes in the cloth. Plain butter may be done in the same manner, and is very quickly prepared, besides having a very good efiect. Butter.—Yfhite-coloured butter is said not to be so good as the yellow; but the yellow colour is often artificially produced, by the introduction of colouring matter into the churn. ANCHOVT BUTTER. 1637. IxGEEDiENTS.—To cvcry lb. of butter allow 6 anchovies, 1 small bunch of parsley. Jibf^e.—Wash, bone, and pound the anchovies well in a mortar; scald the parsley, chop it, and rub through a sieve ; then pound all the ingredients together, mix well, and make the butter into pats immediately. This makes a pretty dish, if fancifully moulded, for breakfast or supper, and should be garnished with parsley. Average cost, Is. Sd. Sufficiejit to make 2 dishes, with 4 pats each. Seasonable at any time.