MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 888 another cask, and in a fortnight stop it down. If the wine should have lost any of its original sweetness, add a little more loaf sugar, taking care that the cask is full. Bottle it oli in February or March, and in the summer it should be fit to drink. It will improve greatly by keeping ; and, should a very brilliant colour be desired, add a little currant-juice. Seasonable,—Make this about the middle of May. WELSH HECTAB. 1830. In-geedients.—1 lb. of raisins, 3 lemons, 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 gallons of boiling water. Mode,—Cut the peel of the lemons very thin, pour upon it the boiling water, and, when cool, add the strained juice of the lemons, the sugar, and the raisins, stoned and chopped very fine. Let it stand 4 or 5 days, stirring it every day ; then strain it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it for present use. Tz7ne.—4i or 5 days. Average cost. Is. 9d. Sufficient to make 2 gallons. ^ I CLAKET-CUP. I 1831. Ixgeediekts.—1 bottle of claret, 1 bottle of soda-water, about i lb. of pounded ice, 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, I teaspoon- ful of grated nutmeg, 1 liqueur-glass of Maraschino, a sprig of green borage. Ilode.—Vxit all the ingredients into a silver cup, regulating the proportion of ice by the state of the weather : if very warm, a larger quantity would be necessary. Hand the cup round with a clean napkin passed through one of the handles, that the edge of the cup may be wiped after each guest has partaken of the contents thereof. Seasonable in summer. Claeets.—All those wines called in England clarets are tlie produce of the country round Bordeaux, or the Bordelais; but it is remarkable that there is no pure wine in Prance known by the name of claret, Nvhich is a corruption of clairct, a term that is applied there to any red or rose-coloured wine. Kound Bordeaux are produced a number of wines of the first quality, which pass under the name simply of vim de Bor- deauxy or have the designation of the particular district where they are made; a| Lafitte, Latour, &c. The clarets brought to the English market are frequently prepared for it by the wine-growers by mixing together several Bordeaux wines, or by adding to them a portion of some other wines; but in France the pure wines are carefully pre- served distinct. The genuine wines of Bordeaux are of great variety, that part being one of the most distinguished in France; and the principal vineyards are those of Medoe, Palus, Graves, and Blanche, the product of each having characters considerably different.