PUDDINGS AND PASTIIY. 633 OBAlSraE BATTER PUDDOTG. 1249. Ingeediexts.—4 eggs, 1 pint of milk, 14- oz. of loaf sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 3fode.—Make tlie batter with, the above ingredients, put it into a well-buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for 1 hour. As soon as it is turned out of the basin, put a small jar of orange marmalade all over the top, and send the pudding very quickly to table. Ti7ne.—1 hour. Average cost, with the marmalade. Is. 3J. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time ; but more suitable for a winter pudding, BAKED BREAD PUDDIIira. 1250. IijTGKEDiENTS.— 2^ lb. of grated bread, 1 pint of milk, 4 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, 4 oz. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of candied peel, 6 bitter almonds, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Ifode.—Put the milk into a stewpan, with the bitter almonds; let it infuse for \ hour; bring it to the boiling point; strain it on to the bread crumbs, and let these remain till cold; then add the eggs, which should be well whisked, the butter, sugar, and brandy, and beat the pudding well until all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed; line the bottom of a pie-dish with the candied peel sliced thin, put in the mixture, and bake for nearly f hour. Time.—Nearly f hour. Average cost, Is. id^ Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. JVote.—A few currants may be substituted for tlie candied peel, and will be found an excellent addition to this pudding : they should be beaten in with the mixture^ and not laid at the bottom of the pie-dish. VERY PLAIHr BREAD PUDDIHG-. 1251. Ingredients.—Odd pieces of crust or crumb of bread; to every quart allow i teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of grated nut- meg, 3 oz. of moist sugar, i lb. of currants, 1^ oz. of butter. 3fode.—Breok the bread into small pieces, and pour on them as much boiling water as will soak them well. Let these stand till the water is cool; then press it out, and mash the bread with a fork until it is quite free from lumps. Measure this pulp, and to every quart stir in salt, nutmeg, sugar, and currants in the above proportion; mix all well together, and put it into a v/ell-buttered pie-dish. Smooth the surface with the back of a spoon, and place the butter in small pieces over the top; bake in a moderate oven for 1^ hour, and