MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 898 and put by in a cool place until wanted. It may also be fiaYoared with an onion, a clove, and a few sweet berbs, &c., when the stomach is sufficiently strong to take these. Time.—3 or 4 hours, or to be left in the oven all night. Average cost, 6d. per pint. Sufficient.—Ailovr 1 lb. of meat for 1 pint of good beef tea, BAKED OR STEWED CALF'S FOOT. iB6i. Ii^GBEDiENTS.—1 calf's foot, 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of water, 1 blade of mace, the rind of i lemon, pepper and salt to taste. Mode.—"Well clean the foot, and either stew or bake it in the milk- and-water with the other ingredients from 3 to 4 hours. To enhance the flavour, an onion and a small quantity of celery may be added, if approved; i a teacupful of cream, stirred in just before serving, is also a great improvement to this dish. Time.—Z to 4 hours. Average cost, in full season, 9d. each. Stiffi.cient for 1 person. Seasonable from March to October. CAIiF'S-FOOT BROTH. 1862. Ikgeebients.—1 calf's foot, 3 pints of water, 1 small lump of sugar, nutmeg to taste, the yolk of 1 egg, a piece of butter the size of a nut. Mode.—Stew the foot in the water, with the lemon-peel, veiy gentli/y until the liquid is half wasted, removing any scum, should it rise to the surface. Set it by in a basin until quite cold, then take off every particle of fat. Warm up about \ pint of the broth, adding the butter, sugar, and a very small quantity of grated nutmeg; take it. off the fire for a minute or two, then add the beaten yolk of the egg; keep stirring over the fire until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil again after the egg is added, or it will curdle, and the broth will be spoiled. Time.—-To be boiled until the liquid is reduced one half. Average cost, in full season, 9d. each. Sufficient to make li pint of broth. Seasonable from March to October. CHICKEN BROTH, 1863. Ingeedients.—^ fowl, or the inferior joints of a whole one; 1 quart of water, 1 blade of mace, ^ onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, salt to taste, 10 peppercorns. 3Iode.—An old fowl not suitable for eating may be converted into Tery good broth, or, if a young one be used, the inferior joints may be