MODERN HOUSEnOLD COOKERY. us for little else than to be converted into soup, wliile a hen at the same age, although sufficiently substantial, is not callous to the insinuations of a carving-knife. As regards capons, however, the rule respecting age does not hold good. There is scarcely to be found a more delicious animal than a well-fed, well-dressed capon. Age does i^^ot dry up his juices ; indeed, like wine, he seems but to mellow. At three years old, even, he is as tender as a chick, with the additional advantage of his proper chicken flavour being fully developed. The above remarks, however, concerning the capon, only apply to such as are naturally fed, and not crammed. The latter process may produce a handsome- loolcmg bird, and it may weigh enough to satisfy the whim or avarice of its stulFer ; but, v/hen before the fire, it will reveal the cruel treatment to which it has been subjected, and will weep a drippingpan-ful of fat tears. You will never find heart enough to place such a grief-worn guest at the head of your table. It should be borne in mind as a rule, that small-boned and short-legged poultry are likely to excel the contrary sort in delicacy of colour, flavour, and fineness of flesh. HASHED DUCK (Cold Meat Cookery), 932. Ikgeediets^ts.—The remains of cold roast duck, rather more than 1 pint of weak stock or water, 1 onion, 1 oz. of butter, thickening of butter and flour, salt and cayenne to taste, i teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, \ glass of port wine. 3Iocle—Qvit the duck into nice joints, and put the trimmings into a stewpan ; slice and fry the onion in a little butter; add these to the trimmings, pour in the above proportion of weak stock or water, and stew gently for 1 hour. Strain the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour, season with salt and cayenne, and add the remaining ingre- dients ; boil it up and skim well; lay in the pieces of duck, and let them get thoroughly hot through by the side of the fire, but do not allow them to boil: they should soak in the gravy for about l hour. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. The hash may be made richer by using a stronger and more highly-ilavoured gravy ; a little spice or pounded mace may also be added, when their llavour is liked. Time.—l^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold duck, id. Seasonable from Kovember to February; ducklings from May to August. The Duck.—This bird belongs to the order of Naiaiores, or Swimmers; the most familiar tribes of which are ducks, swans, geese, auks, X3cnguins, petrels, pelicans, guille- mots, gulls, and terns. They mostly live in the water, feeding on lish, worms, and aquatic plants. They are generally polygamous, and make their nests among reeds, or in moist places. The flesh of many of the species is eatable, but that of some is extremely rank and oily. The duck is a native of Britain, but is foimd on the margins of most of the European lakes. It is excessively greedy, and by no means a nice feeder. It requires a mixture of vegetable and animal food; but aquatic insects, corn, and vegetables, are its proper food. Its flesh, however, is savoury, being not so gross as that of the goose, and of easier digestion. In the green-pea season it is usually found on an English table; but, according to Ude, " "N'ovember is its proper season, when it is plump and fat." TO KAGOUT A DUCK WHOLE. 933. Iis'GEEDiENTS.—1 large duck, pepper and salt to taste, good beef gravy, 2 onions sliced, 4 sage-leaves, a few leaves of lesnon thyme, thickening of butter and fiour. JfbfZe.—After having emptied and singed the duck, season it inside with pepper and salt, and truss it. Roast it before a clear fire for