6Qi MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Inne.—From 15 to 20 minutes to boil tlie nicirrows. Average cost, in full season, Is. per dozen. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle in July, August, and September. BOILED INDIAIT WHEAT or MAIZS. 1174. IiTGEEDiENTS.—The ears of young and green Indian wheat; to every h gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt. 3Iode.—This vegetable, which makes one of the most delicious dishes brought to table, is unfortunately very rarely seen in Britain; and we wonder that, in the gardens of the wealthy, it is not invariably cultivated. Our sun, it is true, possesses hardly power sufficient to ripen maize; but, with well-prepared ground, and in a favourable position, it might be sufficiently advanced by the beginning of autumn to serve as a vegetable. The outside sheath being taken off and the waving fibres removed, let the ears be placed in boiling water, where they should remain for about 25 minutes (a longer time may be necessary for larger ears than ordinary) ; and, when sufficiently boiled and well drained, they may be sent to table whole, and with a piece of toast underneath them. Melted butter should be served with them. Time.—25 to 35 minutes. Average cos^.—Seldom bought. Sufficient,—1 ear for each person. Seasonahle in autumn. Note.—William Cobbett, the English radical writer and politician^ v/as a great cultivator and admirer of maize, and constantly ate it as a vegetable, boiled. We believe he printed a special i^cipe for it, but we have been unable to lay our hands on it. Mr. Buchanan, the present president of the United States, was in the habit, when ambassador here, of receiving a supply of Indian corn from America in hermetically-sealed cases ; and the publisher of this work remembers, with considerable satisfaction, his introduction to a dish of this vegetable, when in America. He found it to combine the excellences of the young green pea and the finest aspai'agus ; but he felt at first slightly awkward in holding the large ear with one hand, whilst the other had to be 'employed in cutting off" with a knife the delicate green grains.