MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 648 GOOSEBEBIIY TAKT. 1285. Inobedients.—li pint of gooseberries, | lb. of short crust "No. 1211, J lb. of moist sugar. Ifode.—Wifh a pair of scissors cut off tlie tops and tails of the gooseberries ; put them into a deep pie-dish, pile the fruit high in the centre, and put in the sugar; line the edge of the dish with short crust, put on the cover, and ornament the edges of the tart; bake in a good oven for about 5 hour, and before being sent to table, strew over it some fine-sifted sugar. A jug of cream, or a dish of boiled or baked custards, should always accompany this dish. Twie.—f hour. Average costi 9cL Sufficient for o or 6 persons. Seasonable from May to July. GoosEBEREiES.—The red and tlie -wliite are tlie two prin- cipal varieties of gooselberries. _ The red are rather the more acid; but, when covered with white sugar, are most wholesome, because the sugar neutralizes their acidity. Eed gooseberries make an excellent jelly, which is light and refreshing, but not very nourishing. It is good for bilious and plethoric persons, and to invalids generally who need light and digestible food. It is a fruit from Avhich many dishes might be made. All sorts of gooseberries are agree- able when stewed, and, in this country especially, there is no fruit so universally in favour. In Scotland, there is scarcely GOOSEBEREY. a cottagc-garden without its gooseberry-bush. Several of the species are cultivated with the nicest care, HALF-PAY PUDDINa. 1286. iNaiiEDiENTS.—J lb. of suet, J lb. of currants, -4- lb. of raisins, \ lb. of Hour, J lb. of bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle, i pint of milk. JibcZe.—Chop the suet finely; mix with it the currants, which should be nicely washed and dried, the raisins, which should be stoned, the flour, bread crumbs, and treacle; moisten v/ith the milk, beat up the ingredients until all are thoroughly mixed, put them into a buttered basin, and boil the pudding for 3^ hours. Time.—3| hours. Average cost, Sd. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. HEBODOTUS PUDBma. 1287. Inghedients.—J lb. of bread crumbs, i lb. of good figs, 6 oz. of suet, 6 oz. of moist sugar, i saltspoonful of salt, 3 eggs, nutmeg to taste. Mode.—Mince the suet and figs very finely; add the remaining ingredients, taking care that the eggs are well whisked; beat the