SOI MODERN IIOUSSnOLD COOKERY. Stuange Tails.—TSTaturalists cannot explain the uses of some of the strain go tiiila borne by animals. In the Egyptian and Syrian sheep, for instance, the tail grows so iarf^e, that it is not unfreq.nently supported npon a sort of little cart, in order to prevent inconveniencd to the animal. This mor.stroiis appendage sometimes attains a weight of seventy, eighty, or even a hundred pounds. TO DUE S3 BEEF PALATSS (an Sntree). 653. Ikgeedients.—4 palates, sufficient gravy to cover them (No. 438), ca^^enne to taste, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, 1 tabie- spoonful of piclded-onion liquor, thickening of butter and flour. 3Iodc.—Yfash the palates, and put them into a stewpan, Tidth sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil until perfectly tender, or until the upper skin may be easily peeled off. Have ready sufficient gravy (No. 438) to cover them ; add a good seasoning of cayenne, and thicken with roux, Ko. 525, or a little butter kneaded wdth flour; let it boil up, and skim. Cut the palates into square pieces, put them in the gravy, and let them simmer gently for J hour; add ketchup and onion-liquor, give one boil, and serve. Time.—From 3 to 5 hours to boil the palates. Suj/icient for 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. J>^ote.—Palates may be dressed in various ways with sauce tournee, good onion sauce/ tomato sauce, and also served in a vol-au-veut; but the above will be found a more simple method of dressing them. • BEES' PICKLE, wliich may also be used for any kind of Meat, Tongues, or Hams. 654. Iin^geedients.—6 lbs. of salt, 2 lbs. of fine sugar, 3 oz. of powdered saltpetre, 3 gallons of spring Vv ater. JibfZfi.—Boil all the ingredients gently together, so long as any scum or impurity arises, which carefully remove; when quite cold, pour it over the meat, every part of which must be covered with the brine. This may be used for pickling any kind cf meat, and may be kept for some time, if boiled up occasionally with an addition of the ingredients. Time.—A ham should be kept in the pickle for a fortnight; a piece of beef weighing 14 lbs., 12 or 15 days; a tongue, 10 days or a fort- night. JVoie.—For salting and pickling meat, it is a good plan to rub in only half tl\o quantity of salt directed, and to let it remain for a day or two to disgorge and effectually to get rid of the blood and slime ; then rub in the remainder of the salt and other ingredients, and proceed as above. This rule may be ax^plied to all the recipes we have given for salting and pickling meat.