128 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. No. 104, 1 onion, 3 cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, 1 glass of port or Madeira, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream ; thickening of flour ; cayenne and lemon-juice to taste. Mode.—Wash and skin the eels, and cut them into pieces about 3 inches long ; pepper and salt them, and lay them in a stewpan; pour over the stock, add the onion stuck with cloves, the lemon-peel, and the wine. Stew gently for i hour, or rather more, and lift them carefully on a dish, which keep hot. Strain the gravy, stir to the cream sufficient llour to thicken; mix altogether, boil for 2 minutes, and add the cayenne and lemon-juice; pour over the eels and serve. Time.—f hour. Average cost for this quantity, 2s. Zcl, Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. The Common Eel.—This fish is known frequently to quit its native element, and to set oir oil a wandering expedition in the night, or just about the close of dav, oyer the meadows, in search of snails and other prey. It also, sometimes, betakes itself to isolated ponds, apparently for no other pleasure than that which may be supposed to be found in a change of habitation. This, of course, accounts for eels being found in waters which were never suspected to contain them. This rambling disposition in the eel has been long known to naturalists, and, from the following lines, it seems to have been known to the ancients :— *' Thus the mail'd tortoise, and the wand'ring eel. Oft to the neighbouring beach will silent steal." n. 251. Ingeedients.—2 lbs. of middling-sized eels, 1 pint of medium stock, No. 105, I pint of port wine; salt, cayenne, and mace to taste ; 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, the juice of ^ a lemon. Mode.—Skin, wash, and clean the eels thoroughly ; cut them into pieces 3 inches long, and put them into strong salt and water for 1 hour; dry them well with a cloth, and fry them brown. Put the stock on with the heads and tails of the eels, and simmer for | hour; strain it, and add all the other ingredients. Put in the eels, and stew gently for i hour, when serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost^ Is. Od, Seasonable from June to March. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. PRIED EELS, 252. Ikgeedients.—1 lb. of eels, 1 egg, a few bread crumbs, hot lard. Irfode.—Wash the eels, cut them into pieces 3 inches long, trim and wipe them very dry; dredge with flour, rub them over with egg, and cover with bread crumbs; fry of a nice brown in hot lard. If the.