MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. BOAST TUBKSY POULTS. 991. Ikgeedients.—Turkey poult; butter. Choosing a?id Trussing.—ChooBQ a plump bird, and truss it in the following manner :—After it has been carefully plucked, drawn, and singed, skin the neck, and fasten the head under the wing; turn the legs at the first joint, and bring the feet close to the thighs, as a woodcock should be trussed, and do not stuff it. 3Iode,—Y\x.i it down to a bright fire, keep it well basted, and at first place a piece of paper on the breast to prevent its taking loo much colour. About 10 minutes before serving, dredge it lightly with fiour, and baste well; when nicely frothed, send it to table immediately, with a little gravy in the dish, and some in a tureen. If at hand, a few water-cresses may be placed round the turkey as a garnish, or it may be larded. Time.—KboTxt 1 hour. Average cost, Is. to 8s. each. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.—In full season from June to October. The Feathees 03? the Turkey.—Human ingenuity subjects almost every materkil to the purposes of ornament or use, and the feathers of turkeys have been found adapted for more ends than one. The American Indians convert them into an elegant clothing, and, by twisting the inner ribs into a strong double string, with hemp or the inner baric of the mulberry-tree, work it like matting. This fabric has a very rich and glosry appearance, and is as fine as silk shag. The natives of Louisiana used to make fans of the tail; and four of that appendage joined together was formerly constructed into a parasol by the French. TO BOI^S A TUBKEY OB FOWL WITHOUT OPEI^ING IT. {Miss Acton's PvCcixoe,) 992. After the fowl has been drawn and singed, wipe it inside and out with a clean cloth, but do not vfash it. Take off the head, cut through the skin all round the first joint of the legs, and pull them from the fowl, to draw out the large tendons. Eaise the flesh first from the low^er part of the backbone, and a little also from the end of the breastbone, if necessary; w^ork the knife gradually to the socket of the thigh; witli the point of the knife detach the joint from it, take the end of the bone firmly in the fingers, and cut the flesh clean from it down to the next joint, round which pass the point of the knife carefully, and when the skin is loosened from it in every part, cut round the next bone, keeping the edge of the knife close to it, until the whole of the leg is done. Eemove the bones of the other leg in the same manner; then detach the flesh from the back- and breast-bone sufiaciently to enable you to reach the upper joints of the wings; proceed with these as v/ith the legs, but be especially careful