1092 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. Dr. Douglas, of Glasgow, resuscitated a person who had been under water for fourteen mmutes, by simply rubbing the whole of his body with warm flannels, in a warm room, for eight hours and a half, at the end of which time the person began to show the Jirst symptoms of returning animation. Should the accident occur at a great distance from any house, this treatment should be adopted as closely as the circumstances will permit of. Breathing through any tube, such as a piece of card or paper rolled into the form of a pipe, will do as a substitute for the bellows. To recapitulate : Rub the body dry ; take matters out of mouth; cover with blankets or clothes ; slightly raise the head, and place the body in a warm bath, or on a bed in a warm room; apply smelling-salts to nose ; employ artificial breathing; rub well with warm flannels ; put mustard poultices to feet, hands, and insides of thighs and legs, with warm bricks or bottles to armpits. DonH Heed. Give wine, brandy, or sal-volatile when recovering, and persevere till actual signs of death are seen. 2677. Briefly to conclude what we have to say of suffocation, let us treat of Lightning. When a person has been struck by lightning, there is a general paleness of the whole body, with the exception of the part struck, which is often blackened, or even scorched.—Treatment. Same as for drowning. It is not, however, of much use ; for when death takes place at all, it is generally instantaneous. 2678. CaiiE FOR THE Toothache.—Take a piece of sheet zinc, about the size of a sixpence, and a piece of silver, say a shilling ; place them together, and hold the defective tooth between them or contiguous to them ; in a few minutes the pain will be gone, as if by magic. The zinc and silver, acting as a galvanic battery, will produce on the nerves of the tooth sufficient electri- city to establish a current, and consequently to relieve the pain. Or smoke a pipe of tobacco and caraway-SGcds. Again— 2679. ^ small piece of the peilitory root will, by the flow of saliva it causes, afford relief. Creosote, or a few drops of tincture of myrrh, or friar's balsam, on cotton, put on the tooth, will often subdue the pain. A small piece of camphor, however, retained in the mouth, is the most reliable and likely means of conquering the paroxysms of this dreaded enemy. 2680. Warts.—Eisenberg says, in his ''Advice on the Hand," that the hydroclilorate of lime is the most certain means of destroying warts ; the process, however, is very slow, and demands perseverance, for, if discon- tinued before the proper time, no advantage is gained. The following is a simple cure :—On breaking the stalk of the crowfoot plant in two, a drop of milky juico will be observed to hang on the upper part of the stem ; if this be allowed to drop on a wart, so that it be well saturated with the juice, in about three or four dressings the warts will die, and may be taken off with the fingers. They may be removed by the above means from the teats of