I.IODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 236 PICKLSD OYSTERS. 491. IiTGEEDiENTS.—100 oysters ; to each J pint of Yinegar, 1 blade of pounded mace, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 12 black peppercorns. Mode.—Get the oysters in good condition, open them, place tbem in a saucepan, and let tbem simmer in their own liquor for about 10 minutes, very gentlj^; then take them out, one by one, and place them in a jar, and covei; them, when cold, with a pickle made as follows:—Measure the oyster-liquor ; add to it the same quantity of vinegar, with mace, lemon-peel, and pepper in the above proportion, and boil it for 5 minut-es; when cold, pour over the oysters, and tie them down very closely, as contact with the air spoils them, Seasonahle from September to April. Hote.—Put this pickle away in small jars; because directly one is opened, its contents should immediately be eaten;^ as they soon spoil. The pickle should not be kept more than 2 or 3 months. OYSTEE, SAlios, to serve with. Pisli, Boiled Poultry, &c. 492. Ingeediekts.—3 dozen oysters, i pint of melted butter, made with milk, No. 380. 3Iode.—Open the oysters carefully, and save their liquor ; strain it into a clean saucepan (a lined one is best), put in the oysters, and let them just come to the boiling-point, when they should look plump. Take them off the fire immediately, and put the whole into a basin. Strain the liquor from them, mix with it sufficient milk to make i pint altogether, and follow the directions of l^o. 380. "When the melted butter is ready and very smooth, put in the oysters, which should be previously bearded, if you wish the sauce to be really nice. Set it by the side of the fire to get thoroughly hot, hut do not allotv it to boil, or the oysters will immediately harden. Using cream instead of milk makes this sauce extremely delicious. When liked, add a seasoning of cayenne, or anchovy sauce; but, as we have before stated, a plain sauce should be plain, and not be overpowered by highly-fiavoured essences ; therefore we recommend that the above directions be implicitly followed, and no seasoning added. Average cost fov this qiiajitiij, 2s. Sufficient for G persons. Never allow fewer than 6 oysters to 1 person, unless the party is very large. Seasonahle from September to April. A more economical sauce may be made by using a smaller quantity of oysters, and not bearding them before they are added to the sauce: this may ansv/er