MODERN EOUSEHOLD COOKETir. 694 placed for a few minutes near the fire, in a basin with a cloth over it, to let it rise again before it is made into dumplings. Time—20 minutes. Average cost, 4c?. iSufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle at any time. Yeast consists principally of a substance very similar in composition, and in many of its sensible properties, to gluten; and, when new or fresh, it is inflated and rendered frothy by a large quantity of carbonic acid. When mixed with wort, this su})stance acts upon the saccharine matter; the temperature rises, carbonic acid is disengaged, and the result is ale, which always contains a considerable proportion of alcohol, or spirit. The quantity of yeast employed in brewing ale being small, the saccharine matter is but imperfectly decomposed : hence a considerable portion of it remains in the liquor, and gives it that viscid quality and body for which it is remarkable. The fermenting property of yeast is weakened by boiling for ten minutes, and is entirely destroyed by continuing the boiling. Alcohol j)oured upon it likewise renders it inert j on which account its power lessens as the alcohol is formed during fermentation. YOEKSHIBE PUDI)I]MG, to serve v/ith hot Koast Beef. 1384. Ingeebiekts.—1| pint of milk, 6 large tablespoonfuls of Hour, 3 eggs, 1 saltspoonful of salt. Mode,—Put the flour into a basin with the salt, and stir gradually to this enough milk to make it into a stiff batter. When this is per- fectly smooth, and all the lumps are well ^ rubbed down, add the remainder of the milk and the eggs, v;hich should be well beaten. TOEESHisE rTTDDiira. Beat the mixture for a few minutes, and pour it into a shallow tin, which has been previously well rubbed with beef dripping. Put the pudding into the oven, and bake it for an hour; then, for another i hour, place it under the meat, to catch a little of the gravy that flows from it. Cut the pudding into small square pieces, put them on a hot dish, and serve. If the meat is baked, the pudding may at once be placed under it, resting the former on a small three-cornered stand. Tmie.—If hour. Average cost, 7cl. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle at any time. f