855 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. ornamented. In baking a large cake like this, great attention must be paid to the heat of the oven; it should not be too fierce, but have a good soaking heat. to 6 hours. Average cost, 2s. per lb. CHRISTMAS CAKE. 1754. Ingredients.—5 teacupfuls of fiour, l teacupful of melted butter, 1 teacupful of cream, 1 teacupful of treacle, 1 teacupful of moist sugar, 2 eggs, ^ oz. of powdered ginger, i lb. of raisins, I teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Mode.—M.ake the butter sufficiently warm to melt it, but do not allow it to oil; put the fiour into a basin ; add to it the sugar, ginger, and raisins, which should be stoned and cut into small pieces. AYhen these dry ingredients are thoroughly mixed, stir in the butter, cream, treacle, and well-whisked eggs, and beat the mixture for a few minutes. Dissolve the soda in the vinegar, add it to the dough, and be particular that these latter ingredients are well incorporated with the others; put the cake into a buttered mould or tin, place it in a moderate oven immediately, and bake it from If to 2j hours. Time—li: to 2j hours. Average cost, Is. ed, COMMON CAKE, suitable for sending to Children at School. 1755. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of flour, 4 oz. of butter or clarified dripping, i oz. of caraway seeds, J oz. of allspice, i lb. of pounded sugar, 1 lb. of currants, 1 pint of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast. 3fode—'R\ih the butter lightly into the fiour ; add all the dry ingre- dients, and mix these well together. Make the milk warm, but not hot; stir in the yeast, and with this liquid make the whole into a light dough ; knead it well, and line the cake-tins with strips of buttered paper ; this paper should be about 6 inches higher than the top of the tin. Put in the dough; stand it in a warm place to rise for more than an hour; then bake the cakes in a well-heated oven. If this quantity be divided in two, they will take from 1| to 2 hours* baking. Time.—If to 2? hours. Average cost, Is, 9d. Sufficient to make 2 moderate-sized cakes. ECOlSrOMICAIi CAKE. 1756. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of fiour, f Ib.^of sugar, I lb. of butter or lard, ^ lb. of currants, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, the whites of 4 eggs, 4 pint of milk.