MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. m GABOTSH FOB TURBOT OK OTHEB LABGE FISH. 338. Take the crumb of a stale loaf, cut it into small pyramids with flat tops, and on the top of each pyramid, put rather more than a table- spoonful of white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Over this, sprinkle finely-chopped parsley and fine raspings of a dark colour. Arrange these on the napkin round the fish, one green and one brown alter- nately. To Choose Turbot.—See that it is thick, and of a yellowish white; for if of a bluish tint, it is not good. The-Tuebot—This is the most esteemed of all our flat fish. The northern parts of the Enghsh coast, and some places olf the coast of Holland, produce turbot in great abundance, and in greater excehence than any other parts of the world. The London market is chiefly supphed by Dutch fishermen, who bring to it nearly 90,000 a year. The flesh is firm, white, . rich, and gelatinous, and is the better for being kept a day or two previous to cooking it. In many parts of the country, turbot and hahbut are indiscriminately sold for each other. They are, however, perfectly distinct; the upper parts of the former being marked with large, unequal, and obtuse tubercles, while those of the other are quite smooth, and covered with oblong soft scales, which firmly adhere to the body. tiil: tueeot. Fish-kettles are made in an oblong form, and have two handles, with a movable bottom, pierced full of holes, on which the fish is laid, and on which it may be lifted from the water, by means of two long handles attached to each side of the movable bottom. This is to pre- vent the liability of breaking the fish, as it would necessarily be if it were cooked in a com- mon saucepan. In the hst of-Messrs. Kichard and John Slack (see 71), the price of two of these is set down at 10s. The turbot-kettle, as will be seen by our cut, is made differently from ordinary fish-kettles, it being leas deep, whilst it is wider, and more pointed at the sides; thus exactly answering to tiie shape of the fish which it is intended should be boiled in it. It may be obtained from the same manufacturers, and its price is £1. TUKBOT-SEITLE. BAKED FIIiLSTS OF TURBOT. 339. Iis-QHEDiENis.—The remains of cold turbot, lobster sauce left from the preceding day, egg, and bread crumbs; cayenne and salt to taste ; minced parsley, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Mode.—After having cleared the fish from all skin and bone, divide it into square pieces of an equal size; brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley and seasoning. Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sulficient butter to baste with. Bake for i hour, and do not forget to keep them well moistened with the butter. Put a little lem.on-juice and grated nut- meg to the cold lobster sauce; make it hot, and pour over the fish,