497 POULTRY. plump. Have ready a forcemeat made by recipe No. 417; fill the breast vnth. this, and, if a trussing-needle is used, sew the neck over to the back; if a needle is not at hand, a skewer will answer the purpose. Run a skewer through the pinion and thigh into the body to the pinion and thigh on the other side, and press the legs as much as pos- sible between the breast and the side bones, and put the liver under one pinion and the gizzard under the other. Pass a string across the back of the bird, catch it over the points of the skewer, tie it in the centre of the back, and be particular that the turkey is very firmly trussed. This may be more easily accomplished with a needle and twine than with skewers. 3fode.—Fasten a s'heet of buttered paper on to the breast of the bird, put it down to a bright fire, at some little distance at first (afterwards draw it nearer), and keep it well basted the whole of the time it is cooking. About \ hour before serving, remove the paper, dvedge the turkey lightly with flour, and put a piece of butter into the basting-ladle; as the butter melts, baste the bird with it. When of a nice brown and well frothed, serve with a tureen of good brown gravy and one of bread sauce. Fried sausages are a favourite addition to roast turkey; they make a pretty garnish, besides adding very much to the flavour. When these are not at hand, a few forcemeat balls should be placed round the dish as a garnish. Turkey maj?- also be stufled with sausage-meat, and a chestnut forcemeat with the same sauce is, by many persons, much esteemed as an accompaniment to this favourite dish.—See coloured plate, A1. Small turkey, li hour; moderate-sized one, about 10 lbs., 2 hours; large turkey, 2\ hours, or longer. Average costy from 105. to 12s., but expensive at Christmas, on account of the great demand. Sufficient—A moderate-sized turkey for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonahh from December to February. English Tuekets.—These are reared in great numbers in Suffolk, Norfolk, and several other counties, whence they were wont to he driven to the London market in llocks of several hundreds; the improvements in our modes of travelling now, however, enable them to be brought by railway. Their drivers used to manage them with great I facility, by means of a bit of red rag tied to the end of a long stick, which, from the I antipathy these birds have to that colour, effectually answered the purpose of a scourge. 1 There are three varieties of the tui'key in this country,—the black, the white, and the I speckled, or copper-coloured. The black approaches nearest to the original stock, and is esteemed the best. Its flesh is white and tender, delicate, nourishing, and of excellent flavour; it greatly deteriorates with age, however, and is then good for little but Btewing. EOAST TXJKKET. 2k