848 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. basin, and leave the dough to rise by the side of the fire; then knead it, and divide it into 12 pieces; place them in a brisk oven, and bake for about 20 minutes. Take the rusks out, break them in half, and then set them in the oven to get crisp on the other side. When cold, they should be put into tin canisters to keep them dry ; and, if intended for the cheese course, the sifted sugar should be omitted. Time,—20 minutes to bake the rusks; 5 minutes to render them crisp after being divided. Average cost, %d, Sufficient to make 2 dozen rusks. Seasonable at any time. ALMOND ICING FOR CAKES 1735. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugaJ allow 1 lb. of sweet almonds^ the whites of 4 eggs, a little rose! water. I Mode.—Blanch the almonds, and pound them (a few at a time) im a mortar to a paste, adding a little rose-water to facilitate the operatioJ Whisk the whites of the eggs to a strong froth; mix them with thJl pounded almonds, stir in the sugar, and beat altogether. When the cake is sufficiently baked, lay on the almond icing, and put it into the oven to dry. Before laying this preparation on the cake, great care must be taken that it is nice and smooth, which is easily accomplished by well beating the mixture. SUGAR ICING FOR CAKES. 1736. INGKEDIEITTS.--T0 every lb. of loaf sugar allow the whites of 4 eggs, 1 oz. of fine starch. Mode.—BQ2it the eggs to a strong froth, and gradually sift in thd sugar, which should be reduced to the finest possible powder, ani gradually add the starch, also finely powdered. Beat the mixturei well until the sugar is smooth; then with a spoon or broad knife lay the icing equally over the cakes. These should then be placed in ^ very cool oven, and the icing allowed to dry and harden, but not to colour. The icing may be coloured with strawberry or cuiTant- juice, or with prepared cochineal. If it be put on the cakes as soon as they are withdrawn from the oven, it will become firm and hard by the time the cakes are cold. On very rich cakes, such as wedding,' christening cakes, &c., a layer of almond icing, No. 1735, is usually spread over the top, and over that the white icing as described. AU-i iced cakes should be kept in a very dry place. I