PRESERVES, CONFECTIONARY, ETC. 7G9 apricot kernels will add muoh to their flavour, or a few blanched bitter almonds. Put corks or bungs into the bottles, tie over them a piece of bladder, and store away in a dry place. The cherries will be fit to eat in 2 or 3 months, and will remain good for years. They are liable to shrivel and become tough if too much sugar be added to them. Average cost, Is, to Is. 6(7. per lb. Sufficient,—1 lb. of cherries and about \ pint of brandy for a quart bottle. ^ Seasonable in August and September. DRIjeiD CHEBRISS. 1527. Cherries may be put in a slow oven and thoroughly dried before they begin to change colour. They should then be taken out of the oven, tied in bunches, and stored away in a dry place. In the winter, they may be cooked with sugar for dessert, the same as Nor- mandy pippins. Particular care must be taken that the oven be not too hot. Another method of drying cherries is to stone them, and to put them into a preserving-pan, with plenty of loaf sugar strewed amongst them. They should be simmered till the fruit shrivels, when they should be strained from the juice. The cherries should then be placed in an oven, cool enough to dry without baking them. About 5 oz. of sugar would be reqviired for 1 lb. of cherries, and the same syrup may be used again to do another quantity of fruit. CHERRY JAM. 1528. Ingredients.—To every lb. of fruit, weighed before stoning, allow h lb. of sugar; to every 6 lbs. of fruit allow 1 pint of red-currant juice, and to every pint of juice 1 lb. of sugar. 3Iode.—Weigh the fruit before stoning, and allow half the weight of sugar; stone the cherries, and boil them in a preserving-pan until nearly all the juice is dried up ; then add the sugar, which should be crushed to powder, and the currant-juice, allowing 1 pint to every 6 lbs. of cherries (original weight), and 1 lb. of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil all together until it jellies, which will be in from 20 minutes to ihour; skim the jam well, keep it well stirred, and, a few minutes before it is done, crack some of the stones, and add the kernels : these impart a very delicious flavour to the jam. Time.—According to the quality of the cherries, from f to 1 hour to boil them; 20 minutes to i hour with the sugar. Average cost, from 7d. to 8c?. per lb. pot. Sufficient,—1 pint of fruit for a lb. pot of jam. Seasonable.—Make this in July or August. ' ^ 3 D