1101 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. own option. These, except under particular circumstances, are the property of the lessee, and may either be sold to an incoming tenant, or removed at tho end of his term. The articles which may not be removed arc subject to considerable doubt, and are a fruitful source of dispute. Mr. Commissioner Fonblanque has defined as tenants' property all goods and chattels; 2ndly, all articles ''slightly connected one with another, and with the freehold, but capable of being separated without materially injuring the freeholdSrdly, articles fixed to the freehold by nails and screws, bolts or pegs, are also tenants* goods and chattels; but when sunk in the soil, or built on it, they are integral parts of the freehold, and cannot be removed. Thus, a green- house or conservatory attached to the house by the tenant is not remov- able ; but the furnace and hot-water pipes by which it is heated, may be removed or sold to the in-coming tenant. A brick flue does not come under the same category, but remains. Window-blinds, grates, stoves, cofiee- mills, and, in a general sense, everything he has placed which can be removed without injury to the freehold, he may remove, if they are separated from the tenement during his term, and the place made good. It is not unusual to leave the fixtures in their place, with an undertaking from the landlord that, when again let, the in-coming tenant shall pay for them, or permit their removal. In a recent case, however, a tenant having held over beyond his term and not removed his fixtures, the landlord let the premises to a new tenant, who entered into possession, and would not allow the fixtures to be removed—it was held by the courts, on trial, that he was justified. A similar case occurred to the writer : he left his fixtures in the house, taking a letter from the landlord, undertaking that the in-coming tenant should pay for them by valuation, or permit their removal. The house was let; tho landlord died. His executors, on being applied to, pleaded ignorance, as did the tenant, and on being furnished with a copy of the letter, the executors told applicant that if he was aggrieved, he knew his remedy; namely, an action at law. He thought the first loss the least, and has not altered his opinion. 2714. Taxes.—Land-tax, sewers-rate, and property-tax, are Iandlord'3 taxes ; but by 30 Geo. II. c. 2, the occupier is required to pay all rates levied, and deduct from the rent such taxes as belong to the landlord. Many landlords now insert a covenant, stipulating that land-tax and sewers-rato are to be paid by the tenants, and not deducted : this does not apply to the property-tax. All other taxes and rates are payable by the occupier. 2715. Water-Rate, of course, is paid by the tenant. The water-compa- nies, as well as gas-companies, have the power of cutting off the supply ; and most of them have also the right of distraining, in the same manner as land- lords have for rent. 2716. Notice to Quit.—In the case of leasing for a term, no notice is necessary; tho tenant quits, as a matter of course, at its termination; or