MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOICERY. 694. The Mode of Slaughterixg Sheep is perhaps as liu.mane and expe- ditious a process as could be adopted to attain the objects sought : the animal being laid on its side in a sort of concave stool, the butcher, while pressing the body with his knee, transfixes the throat near the angle of the jaw, passing: his knife between the windpipe and bones of the neck ; thus dividing the jugulars, carotids, and large vessels, the death being very rapid from such a hemorrhage. 695. Almost every Large City has a particular manner of cutting up, or^ as it is called, dressing the carcase. In London this process is very simple, and as our butchers have found that much skewering back, doubling one part over another, or scoring the inner cuticle or fell, tends to spoil the meat and shorten the time it would otherwise keep, they avoid all such treatment entirel}^ The carcase when flayed (v/hich operation is performed while yet vrarm), the sheep when hung up and the head removed, presents the profile shown in our cut; the small numerals indicating the parts or joints into which one half of the animal is cut. After separating the hind from the fore quarters, with eleven ribs to the latter, the quarters are usually subdivided in the nianner shown in the sketch, in which the several joins are defined by the intervening lines and figures. Iliiid quarter : No. 1, the leg; 2, the loin—the two, when cut in one piece, being called the saddle. I^ore quarter: No. 3, the shoulder ; 4 and 5 the neck ; No. 5 being called, for distinction, the scrag, which is generally afterwards separated from 4, the lov/er and better joint ; No. Q, the breast. The haunch of mutton, so often served at public dinners and special entertainments, comprises all the leg and so much of the loin, short of the ribs or lap, as is indicated on the upper part of the carcase by a dotted line. 696. The Gentle and Timid Disposition of the sheep, and its defenceless condition, must very early have attached it to man for motives less selfish than either its fleece or its flesh; for it has been proved beyond a doubt that, obtuse as we generally regard it, it is susceptible of a high degree of domesticity, obedience, and affec- tion. In many parts of Europe, where the flocks are guided by the shepherd's voice alone, it is no unusual thing for a sheep to quit the herd when called by its name, and follov/ the keeper like a dog. In the mountains of Scotland, when a flock is invaded by a savage dog, the rams have been knovvmto form the herd into a circle, and placing themselves on the SIDE 017 MUTTOIir, SIr0^yIXG THE SEVERAL JOIKIS.