679 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. Time—AhoTit i hour to swell tlie rice. Average cost, Id. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. ErcE was held in ^reat esteem by the ancients : they considered it as a very beneficial food for the chest; therefore it was recommended in eases of consumption^ and to persona subject to spitting of blood. SAVOUBY CASSEKOLE OF HIOB, Or Bice Border, for Bagouts, Fricassees, &c. (an Entree). 1350. Ingeedients.—lb. of rice, 3 pints of weak stock or broth, 2 slices of fat ham, 1 teaspoonful of salt. 3Iode.—A casserole of rice, when made in a mould, is not such a difficult operation as when it is moulded by the hand. It is an elegant and inexpensive entree, as the remains of cold fish, flesh, or fowl may be served as ragouts, fricassees, &c., in- closed in the casserole. It requires great nicety in its preparation, the principal thing to attend to being the boiling of the rice, as, if this is not sufficiently cooked, the casserole, when moulded, will have a rough appearance, which would entirely spoil it. After having washed the rice in two or three waters, drain it well, and put it into a stewpan with the stock, ham, and salt; cover the pan closely, and let the rice gradually swell over a slow fire, occasionally stirring, to prevent its sticking. When it is quite soft, strain it, pick out the pieces of ham, and, with the back of a large wooden spoon, mash the rice to a perfectly smooth paste. Then well grease a mould (moulds are made purposely for rice borders), and turn it upside down for a minute or two, to drain away the fat, should there be too much; put some rice all round the bottom and sides of it ; place a piece of soft bread in the middle, and cover it with rice; press it in equally with the spoon, and let it cool. Then dip the mould into hot water, turn the casserole care- fully on to .a dish, mark where the lid is to be formed on the top, by making an incision with the point of a knife about an inch from the edge all round, and put it into a ve7y hot oven. Brush it over with a little clarified butter, and bake about 4 hour, or rather longer; then carefully remove the lid, which will be formed by the incision having been made all round, and remove the bread, in small pieces, with the point of a penknife, being careful not to injure the casserole. Fill the centre with the ragout or fricassee, which should be made thick; put on the cover, glaze it, place it in the oven to set the glaze, and serve as hot as possible. The casserole should not be emptied too much, as it is liable to crack from the weight of whatever is put in;