BAUCES, ETC. 189 Time.'-25 minutes to boil the celery. Average cost, Is. SJ. Sufficient, this quantity, for a boiled turkey. This sauce may be made brown by using gravy instead of white stock, and flavouring it with mushroom ketchup or Harvey*s sauce. Aeeoweoot.—This nutritious fecula is obtained from the roots of a plant which is cultivated in both the East and West Indies. When the roots are about a year old, they are dug up, and, after being well washed, are beaten to a pulp, which is afterwards, by means of water, sepa- rated from the fibrous part. After being passed through a sieve, once more washed, and then suffered to settle, the sediment is dried in the sun, when it has become arrowroot. The best is obtained from the West Indies, but a large quantity of what is sold in London is adul- terated with potato-starch. As a means of knowing arrowroot when it is good, it may be as well to state, that the genuine article, when formed into a jelly, will ^remain firm for three or four days, whilst the adulterated will become as thin as milk in the course of twelve hours. AEEOWEOOT. CELERY SAUCE (a More Simple Recipe). 388. Ingeedients.—4 heads of celery, \ pint of melted butter, made with milk (No. 380), 1 blade of pounded mace ; salt and white pepper to taste. ilfot^e.—-Wash the celery, boil it in salt and water till tender,, and cut it into pieces 2 inches long ; make \ pint melted butter by recipe No. 380; put in the celery, pounded mace, and seasoning; simmer for three minutes, when the sauce will be ready to serve. Time.—25 minutes to boil the celery. Average cost, Qd. Sufficient, this quantity, for a boiled fowl. CELERY VINEG-AR. 389. IiTGEEDiENTS.—J oz. of celery-sced, 1 pint of vinegar. Mode.—Crush the seed by pounding it in a mortar; boil the vinegar, and when cold, pour it to the seed; let it infuse for a fortnight, when strain and bottle off for use. This is frequently used in salads. CHESTNUT SAUCE FOR FOWLS OR TURKEY. 390. Ikgeedieitts.—\ lb. of chestnuts, f pint of white stock, 2 strips of lemon-peel, cayenne to taste, f pint of cream or milk. Jfbc?e.—Peel off the outside skin of the chestnuts, and put them into boiling water for a few minutes ; take off the thin inside peel, and put them into a saucepan, with the white stock and lemon-peel, and let them simmer for 1^ hour, or until the chestnuts are quite tender. Eub the whole through a hair-sieve with a wooden spoon ; add seasoning and the cream; let it just simmer, but not boil, and