BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 8G1 Seasonable at any time. plunge a clean knife into the middle, and if on withdrawal it comes out clean, the cakes are done. Time.—1 to 1J hour. Average cost, Is. 8d. Sufficient to make 6 small cakes. A NICE PLUM CAKE. 1769. Ingeedieis^ts.—1 lb. of flour, | lb. of butter, Hb. of sug-ar, ^ lb. of currants, 2 oz. of candied lemon-peel, l pint of milk, 1 tea- spoonful of ammonia or carbonate of soda. Mode,—Put the flour into a basin with tlie sugar, currants, and sliced candied peel; beat the butter to a cream, and mix all these ingredients together with the milk. Stir the ammonia into 2 table- spoonfuls of milk ; add it to the dough, and beat the whole well, until everything is thoroughly mixed. Put the dough into a buttered tin, and bake the cake from 12- to 2 hours. Time.— to 2 hours. Average cost, Is. Sd, Seasonable at any time. POUND CAKE. 1770. Iij-GHEDIENTS.—lib. of buttcr, ijlb. of flour, 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 1 lb. of currants, 9 eggs, 2 oz. of candied peel, h oz. of citron, k oz. of sweet almonds ; when liked, a litttle pounded mace. Mode.—Work the butter to a cream; dredge in the flour; add the sugar, currants, candied peel, which should be cut into neat slices, and the almonds, which should be blanched and chopped, and mix all these well together; whisk the eggs, and let them be thoroughly blended with the dry ingredients. Beat the cake well for 20 minutes, and put it into a round tin, lined at the bottom and sides with a strip of white buttered paper. Bake it from Ij to 2 hours, and let the oven be well heated when the cake is first put in, as, if this is not the case, the currants will all sink to the bottom of it. To make this preparation light, the yolks and whites of the eggs should be beaten separately, and added separately to the other ingredients. A glass of wine is sometimes added to the mixture; but this is scarcely necessary, as the cake will be found quite rich enough without it. Time.—1^ to 2 hours. Average cost, ds. 6d, Sufficient.—The above quantity divided in two will make two nice- sized cakes.