MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 212 raw. The stufiiiig thee, however, is not nearly so mild, and, to many- tastes, its strong flavour would be very objectionable. When made for goose, a portion of the liver of the bird, simmered for a few minutes and very finely minced, is frequently added to this stufiing; and where economy is studied, the egg may be dispensed with. Time.—Rather more than 5 minutes to simmer the onions. Average cost^ for this quantity, i.d. Sufficient for 1 goose, or a pair of ducks. 505. Soyer's Recipe for Goose Stuffing.—Take 4 apples, peeled and cored, 4 onions, 4 leaves of sage, and 4 leaves of lemon tliyme not broken, and boil them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them ; when done, pulp them through a sieve, removing the sage and thyme ; then add sufficient pulp of mealy potatoes to cause it to be sufficiently dry without sticking to th© hand; add pepper and salt, and stuff the bird. SALAD DKESSING- (Excellent). I. 506. Ingredients.—1 teaspoonsful of mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, cayenne and salt to taste. 3Iode.—V\jit the mixed mustard into a salad-bowl with the sugar, and add the oil drop by drop, carefully stirring and mixing all these ingredients well together. Proceed in this manner with the milk and vinegar, which must be added very gradually^ or the sauce will curdle. Put in the seasoning, when the mixture will be ready for use. If this dressing is properly made, it will have a soft creamy appearance, and will be found very delicious with crab, or cold fried fish (the latter cut into dice), as well as with salads. In mixing salad dressings, the ingredients cannot be added too gradually^ or stirred too much. Average cost^ for this quantity, Zd, Sufficient for a small salad. This recipe can be confidently recommended by the editress, to whom it was given by an intimate friend noted for her salads. ScAECiTT OF Salads in England.—Three centuries -ago, very few vegetables were cultivated in England, and an author writing of the period of Henry VIII,'s I'eign, tells us that neither salad, nor carrots, nor cabbages, nor radishes, nor any other comestibles of a like nature, were grown in any part of the kingdom : they came from Holland and Flanders. We further learn, that Queen Catharine herself, with all her royalty, could not procure a salad of English growth for her dinner. The king was obliged to mend this sad state of affairs, and send to Holland for a gardener in order to cultivate those pot-herbs, in the growth of which England is now, perhaps, not behind any other coun- try in Europe.