BAUCES, ETC. 191 CHILI VINEQAB. 393. Ingkedients.—50 fresh red Englisli chilies, 1 pint of vinegar. 3Iode.—Pound or cut the chilies in half, and infuse them in the vinegar for a fortnight, when it will be fit for use. This will be found an agreeable relish to fish, as many people cannot eat it without the addition of an acid and cayenne pepper. CIIBISTOPHER ITORTH'S SAXJCS FOB MEAT OB GAME. 394. Ingeedients.—1 glass of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of Har- vey's sauce, 1 dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, ditto of pounded white sugar, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, i teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, ditto of salt. J/ofZc—Mix all the ingredients thoroughly together, and heat the sauce gradually, by placing the vessel in which it is made in a saucepan of 1* oiling water. Do not allow it to boil, and serve directly it is ready. This sauce, if bottled immediately, will heep good for a fortnight, and will be found excellent. CONSOMME, or WHITE STOCK FOB MAHY SAUCES. 395. Consomme is made precisely in the same manner as stock No. 107, and, for ordinary purposes, will be found quite good enough. "When, however, a stronger stock is desired, either put in half the quantity of water, or double that of the meat. This is a yovj good foundation for all white sauces. CBAB SAUCE FOB FISH (equal to Lobster Sauce). 396. IxGBEDiENTS.—1 Crab; salt, pounded mace, and cayenne to taste; I pint of melted butter made with milk {see No. 380). 3Iode,—Choose a nice fresh crab, pick all the meat away from the shell, and cut it into small square pieces.' Make i pint of melted butter by recipe No. 380, put in the fish and seasoning; let it gradually warm through, and simmer for 2 minutes. It should not boil. Average cost, Is. 2d. CBEAM SAUCE FOB PISH OB WHITE DISHES. 397. Ingeedients.—Jpintof cream, 2oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, salt and cayenne to taste; when liked, a small quantity of pounded mace or lemon-juice. 3Iode.—Put the butter in a very clean saucepan, dredge in the flour, and keep shaking round till the butter is melted. Add the seasoning and cream, and stir the whole till it boils; let it just simmer