346 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY- them fiat with a cutlet-chopper, and scrape quite clean, a portion of the top of the bone. Broil them over a nice clear fire for about 7 or 8 minutes, and turn them frequently. Have ready some smoothly-mashed white potatoes; place these in the middle of the dish ; when the MUTTON CUTLETS, cutlets are done, season with pepper and salt; arrange them round the potatoes, with the thick end of the cutlets downwards, and serve very hot and quickly. {See Coloured Plate.) Time,—7 or 8 minutes. Average cost, for this quantity, 2s, 4d Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. iV^o^e.—Cutlets may be served in various ways; with peas, tomatoes, onions, sauce piquante, &c. MUTTOlSr PIE (Cold Meat Cookery). 733. Ingeedients.—The remains of a cold leg-, loin, or neck of mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 blades of pounded mace, 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of minced savoury herbs; when liked, a little minced onion or shalot; 3 or 4 potatoes, 1 teacupful of gravy; crust. Mode.—Cold mutton may be made into very good pies if well seasoned and mixed with a few herbs; if the leg is used, cut it into very thin slices; if the loin or neck, into thin cutlets. Place some at the bottom of the dish; season well with pepper, salt, mace, parsley, and herbs; then put a layer of potatoes sliced, then more mutton, and so on till the dish is full; add the gravy, cover with a crust, and bake for 1 hour. Time.—l hour. Seasonable at any time. Note.—The remains of an underdone leg of mutton may be converted into a very good family pudding, by cutting the meat into slices, and putting them into a basin lined with a suet crust. It should be seasoned well with pepper, salt, and minced shalot, covered with a crust, and boiled for about 3 hours. MUTTOlSr PIE. 734. Ingkedients.—-2 lbs. of the neck or loin of mutton, weighed after being boned; 2 kidneys, pepper and salt to taste, 2 teacupfuls of gravy or water, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley; when liked, a little minced onion or shalot; puff crust. Jfoc?e.—Bone the mutton, and cut the meat into steaks all of the