VEAL, Average costy lOd. per lb. Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. JVote.—Veal cutlets may be merely floured and fried of a nice brown; the gravy and garnishing should be tlie same as in the preceding recipe. They may also be cut from the loin or neck, as shown in the engraving. BKOILED VSAIj CUTLETS a ritalienne (an Entree). 867. Ingkedients.—Neck of veal, salt and pepper to taste, the yolk of 1 egg, bread crumbs, ^ pint of Italian sauce No. 453. Mode.—Cut the veal into cutlets, flatten and trim them nicely; powder over them a little salt and pepper; brush them over with the yolk of an egg, dip them into bread crumbs, then into clarified butter, and, afterwards, in the bread crumbs again; broil or fry them over a clear fire, that they may acquire a good brown colour. Arrange them in the dish alternately with rashers of broiled ham, and pour the sauce, made by recipe No. 453, in the middle. Time—10 to 15 minutes, according to the thickness of the cutlets. Average cost^ lOd, per lb. Seasonable from March to October. • The Calf's-Head Club.—W^hen the restoration of Charles II. took the strait waistcoat off the minds and morose religion of the Commonwealth period, and gave a loose rein to the long-compressed spirits of the people, there still remained a large section of society wedded to the former state of things. The elders of this party retired from pubhc sight, where, unoffended by the reigning saturnalia, they might dream in seclusion over their departed Utopia. The young bloods of this school, however, who were compelled to mingle in the world, yet detesting the pohtics which had become the fashion, adopted a novel expedient to keep ahve their republican sentiments, and mark their contempt of the reigning family. They accordingly met, in considerable numbers, at some convenient inn, on the 30th of January in each year,—the anniversary of Charles's death, and dined together off a feast prepared from calves' heads, dressed in every Eossible variety of way, and with an abundance of wine drank toasts of defiance and atred to the house of Stuart, and glory to the memory of old HoU Cromwell; and having lighted a large bonfire in the yard, the club of fast young Puritans, with their white handkerchiefs stained red in wine, and one of the party in a mask, bearing an axe, followed by the chahman, carrying a calf's head pinned up in a napkin, marched ia mock procession to the bonfire, into which, with great shouts and uproar, they flung the enveloped head. This odd custom was continued for some time, and even down to the early part of this century it was customary for men of repubhcan poUtics always to dine off calf's head on the 30th of January. VEAL CUTLETS a la Maintenon (an Entree). 868. Ikgeedients.—2 or 3 lbs. of veal cutlets,, egg and bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, a little grated nutmeg. Mode—Cut the cutlets about | inch in thickness, flatten them, and brush them over with the yolk of an egg; dip them into bread crumbs and minced herbs, season with pepper and salt and grated nutmeg, and fold each cutlet in a piece of buttered paper. Broil them, and send them to table with melted butter or a good gravy.