BEVERAGES. 8/3 may be which we daily take in this form, it cannot he destitute of influence on the vital processes." 1797. Chinese tea has frequently been adulterated in this country, by tho admixture of the dried leaves of certain plants. The leaves of the sloe, white thorn, ash, elder, and some others, have been employed for this purpose ; Euch as the leaves of the speedwell, wild germander, black currants, syringa, purple-spiked willow-herb, sweet-brier, and cherry-tree. Some of these are harmless, others are to a certain degree poisonous; as, for example, are the leaves of all the varieties of the plum and cherry tribe, to which the sloe belongs. Adulteration by means of these leaves is by no means a new species of fraud ; and several acts of parHament, from the time of George II., have been passed, specifying severe penalties against those guilty of the offence, ■which, notwithstanding numerous convictions, continues to the present time. 179S. In the purchase of tea, that should be chosen which possesses an agreeable odour and is as whole as possible, in order that the leaf may be easily examined. The greatest care should be taken that it has not been exposed to the air, which destroys its flavour, 1799. It w^ould be impossible, in the space at our command, to enumerate the various modes adopted in different countries for making coffee ;" that is, the phrase commonly tmderstood to mean the complete preparation of this delicious beverage for drinking. For performing this operation, such recipes or methods as we have found most i^ractical will be inserted in their proper place; but the following facts connected with coffee will be found highly interesting. 1800. The introduction of coffee into this country is comparatively of recent date. We are assured by Bruce that the coffee-tree is a native of Abj^ssinia, and it is said to have*been cultivated in that country from time immemorial. 1801. It appears that coffee was first introduced into England by Daniel Edwards, a Turkey merchant, whose servant, Pasqua, a Greek, understood the manner of roasting it. This servant, under the patronage of Edwards, estab- lished the first coffee-house in London, in George Yard, Lombard Street. Coffee v/as then sold at four or five guineas a pound, and a duty was soon afterwards laid upon it of fourpence a gallon, when made into a beverage. In the course of two centuries, however, this berry, unknown originally as au article of food, except to some savage tribes on the confines of Abyssinia, has made its way through the whole of the civilized world. Mahommedans of all ranks drink coffee twice a day ; it is in universal request in France ; and tho demand for it throughout the British isles is daily increasing, the more espe- cially since so much attention has been given to mechanical contrivances for roasting and grinding the berry and preparing the beverage. 1802. Of the various kinds of coffee the Arabian is considered the best. It IS gro wn chiefly in the districts of Aden and Mocha; whence the name of onr