229 SAUCES^ ETC. and simmer for about 5 minutes ; should they, however, not be done enough, allow rather more time. They should not boil longer than necessary, as they would then lose their colour and flavour. E-ub the whole through a tammy, and serve very hot. After this, it should be warmed in a bain marie. Time.—Altogether, | hour. Average cost, Is, Reasonable from August to October. II. A More Simijle Method, 476. Ingredients.—i pint of melted butter, made with milk. No. 380 ; \ pint of button mushrooms, 1 dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, if at hand; cayenne and salt to taste. Irlode.—Make the melted butter by recipe No. 380, and add to it the mushrooms, which must be nicely cleaned, and free from grit, and the stalks cut off. Let them simmer gently for about 10 minutes, or until they are quite tender. Put in the seasoning and ketchup ; let it just boil, when serve. Tiyne.—Rather more than 10 minutes. Average cost, 8d. Seasonable from August to October. Growth op the Musheoom and other Fungi.—The quick growth of the mushroom and other fuugi is no less wondei^ful than the length of time they live, and the numerous dangers they resist while they continue in the dormant state. To spring up "like a mushroom in a night" is a scriptu.ral mode of expressing celerity j and this completely accords with all the observations which have been made concerning this curious class of plants. Mr. Sowerby remarks—" I have often placed specimens of the Fhallus caniniis by a window over-night, while in the egg-form, and they have been fully grown by the morning." MUSHSOOM POWBEB (a vakiable addition to Sauces and Gravies, when fresh Muslirooms are not obtainable). 477. Iix'GEEDiEi^TS.—J peck of large mushrooms, 2 onions, 12 cloves, 5 oz. of pounded mace, 2 teaspoonfuls of white pepper. llode.—Peel the mushrooms, wipe them perfectly free from grit and dirt, remove the black fur, and reject all those that are at all worm- eaten ; put them into a stewpan with the above ingredients, but without water ; shake them over a clear fire, till all the liquor is dried up, and be careful not to let them burn ; arrange them on tins, and dry them in a slow oven ; pound them to a fine powder, which put into small di-7/ bottles ; cork well, seal the corks, and keep it in a dry place. In using this powder, add it to the gravy just before serving, when it will merely require one boil-up. The flavour imparted by this means to the gravy, ought to be exceedingly good.