959 BILLS OP FARE. BBEAKFASTS. 2144. It will not bo necessary to give here a long bill of fare of cold joints, &c., which may be placed on the side-board, and do duty at the breakfast- table. Suffice it to say, that any cold meat the larder may furnish, should be nicely garnished, and be placed on the buffet. Collared and potted meats or fish, cold game or poultry, veal-and-ham pies, game-and-rumpsteak pies, are all suitable dishes for the breakfast-table ; a» also cold ham, tongue, &c. &c. 2145. The following list of hot dishes may perhaps assist our readers in knowing what to provide for the comfortable meal called breakfast. Broiled fish, such as mackerel, whiting, herrings, dried haddocks, &c. ; mutton chops and rump-steaks, broiled sheep's kidneys, kidneys h la maitre d'hdtel, sau- sages, plain rashers of bacon, bacon and poached eggs, ham and poached eggs, omelets, plain boiled eggs, ceufs-au-plat, poached eggs on toast, muffins, toast, marmalade, butter, &c. kc. 1146. In the summer, and when they are obtainable, always have a vase of freshly-gathered flowers on the breakfast-table, and, when convenient, a nicely-arranged dish of fruit : when strawberries are in season, these are particularly refreshing; as also grapes, or even currants. LTJNCHEOKS AIMD SUPPEBS. 2147. The remains of cold joints, nicely garnished, a few sweets, or a little hashed meat, poultry or game, are the usual articles placed on the-table for luncheon, with bread and cheese, biscuits, butter, &c. If a substantial meal is desired, rump-steaks or mutton chops may be served, as also veal cut- lets, kidneys, or any dish of that kind. In families where there is a nursery, the mistress of the house often partakes of the meal with the children, and makes it her luncheon. In the summer, a few dishes of fresh fruit should be added to the luncheon, or, instead of this, a comp6te of fruit or fruit tart, or pudding. 2148. Of suppers we have little to say, as we have already given two bills of fare for a large party, which will answer very well for a smaller number, by reducing the quantity of dishes and by omitting a few. Hot suppers are now very little in request, as people now generally dine at an hour which precludes the possibility of requiring supper; at all events, not one of a substantial kind. Should, however, a bill of fare be required, one of those under the head of Dinners, with slight alterations, will be found to answer for a hot supper.