347 same thickness, and leave but very little fat. Cut up the kidneys, and arrange these with the meat neatly in a pie-dish; sprinkle over them the minced parsley and a seasoning of pepper and salt; pour in the gravy, and cover with a tolerably good puff crust. Bake for 1^ hour, or rather longer, should the pie be very large, and let the oven be rather brisk. A well-made suet crust may be used instead of puff crust, and will be found exceedingly good. Time.—l^ hour, or rather longer. Average co«^, 2«. /Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. /Seasonable at any time. MUTTON PTJDDIWa. 735. Ikgeedients.—About 2 lbs. of the chump end of the loin of mutton, weighed after being boned; pepper and salt to taste, suet crust made with milk {see Pastry), in the proportion of 6 oz. of suet to each pound of flou^; a very small quantity of minced onion (this may be omitted when the flavour is not liked). Mode.—Cut the meat into rather thin slices, and season them with pepper and salt; line the pudding-dish with crust; lay in the meat, and nearly, but do not quite, fill it up with water; when the flavour is liked, add a small quantity of minced onion; cover with crust, and proceed in the same manner as directed in recipe No. 605, using the same kind of pudding-dish as there mentioned. Ti7ne.—About 3 hours. Average cost^ Is, 9d, Sufficient for 6 persons. Seasonable all the year, but more suitable in winter. BAGOUT OF COLD NECK: OF MUTTON (Cold Meat Cookery). 73^. Ingeediekts.—The remains of a cold neck or loin of mutton, 2 oz. of butter, a little flour, 2 onions sliced, J pint of water, 2 small carrots, 2 turnips, pepper and salt to taste. Mode,—Cut the mutton into small chops, and trim off the greater portion of the fat; put the butter into a stewpan, dredge in a little flour, add the sliced onions, and keep stirring till brown; then put in the meat. When this is quite brown, add the water, and the carrots and turnips, which should be cut into very thin slices; season with pepper and salt, and stew till quite tender, which will be in about I hour. When in season, green peas may be substituted for the carrots and turnips: they should be piled in the centre of the dish, and the chops laid round. Time.—^ hour. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, id. Seasonable, with peas, from June to August.