nODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 1G3 Mode.—Cut the flesh of the turbot into small dice, carefully freeing it from all skin and bone. Put them into a stewpan, and moisten with 4 or 5 tablespoonfuls of bechamel. Let it get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil. Spread the mixture on a dish, cover with finely-grated bread crumbs, and place small pieces of butter over the top. Brov/n it in the oven, or with a salamander. jT/^^ze.—Altogether, J hour. Seasonable at any time. BOILED WHITIKG. 343. lNGHEDiE>ns.—i lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the fish, but do not skin them ; lay them in a fish- kettle, with sufficient cold water to cover them, and salt in the above proportion. Bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer gently for about 5 minutes, or rather more should the fish be very large. Dish them on a hot napkin, and garnish with tufts of parsley. Serve vrith anchovy or caper sauce, and plain melted butter. jfYme.—After the water boils, 5 minutes. A verage cost for small whitings, id. each. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March. Sufficiejit, 1 small whiting for each person. To Choose Whiting.—Choose for tlie firmness of its flcsli and the sih-ery hue of its appearance. The Whiting.—This fish forms a light, ten- der, and delicate food, easy of di;?estion. It appears in our seas in the spring, within three miles of the shores, where it arrives in large shoals to deposit its spawn. It is caught by line, and is usually between ten and twelve inches long, and seldom exceeding a pound and a half in weight. On the edge of the Dogger Bank, however, it has been caught so heavy as ta weigh from three to seven or eight pounds. When less than six inches long, it is not allowed to be caught. EPvOIIiED WHITIIvra. 344. Inghedients.—Salt and water, flour. Mode.—W^ash the whiting in salt a.nd water, wipe them thoroughly, and let them remain in the cloth to absorb all moisture. Flour them well, and broil over a very clear fire. Serve with maitre d'hotcl sauce, or plain melted butter {see Sauces). Be careful to preserve the liver, as by some it is considered very delicate. Time.—5 minutes for a small whiting. Average cost, id. each. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March. Sufficient, 1 small whiting for each person. EucKiiop.N-.—Whitings caught in Cornwall are salted and dried, and in winter taken to the markets, and sold under the singular name of Buckhorn."