456 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. and butter, oyster, lemon, liver, celery, or mushroom sauce. A little should be poured over the fowls, after the skewers are removed, and the remainder sent in a tureen to table. Time,—Large fowl, 1 hour; moderate-sized one, f hour; chicken, from 20 minutes to 4 hour. Average cost, in full season, 5s. the pair. Siifficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonahle all the year, but scarce in early spring. The Game Fowl.—Kcspecting tlie period at which this well-lrnown member of the Gallns family became domesticated, history is silent. There is little doubt, however, that, like the dog, it has been attached to mankind ever since mankind were attached to civilization. Although the social posi- tion of this bird is, at the present time, highly respectable, it is nothing to what it was when Kome was mistress of the world. Writing at that period, Pliny says, respecting the domestic cock, The gait of the cock is proud and commanding; he walks with head erect and elevated crest; alone, of all birds, he habitually looks up to the sky, raising, at the same time, his curved and scythe- formed tail, and inspiring terror in the lion himself, that most intrepid of ani- mals. * * They regulate the conduct of our magistrates, and open or close to them their own houses. They prescribe rest or movement to the Eoman fasces : they command or prohibit battles. In a word, they lord it over the masters of the world." As well among the ancient Greeks as the Eomans, was the cock regarded with respect, and even awe. The former people practised divinations by means of this bird. Supposing there to be a doubt in the camp as to the fittest day to light a battle, the letter of every day in the week would be placed face downwards, and a grain of corn placed on each; then the sacred cock would be let loose, and, according to the letters he pecked his corn from, so would the battle-time be regulated. On one momentous occasion, however, a person inimical to priestly interest officiously examined the grain, and found that those lying on the letters not wanted were made of wax, and the birds, preferring the true grain, left these untouched. It is needless to add that, after this, divination through the medium of cocks and grain fell out of fashion. Whether or no the learned fowl above aUuded to were of the "game" bi'eed, is I unknown; but that the birds were bred for the inhuman sport of fighting many hundred years before the Christian era, there can be no doubt. Themistocles, the Athenian king, who flourished more than two thousand years ago, took advantage of the sight of a pitched battle between two cocks to harangue his soldiers on courage. "Observe," said he, "with what intrepid valour they fight, inspired by no^ other motive than love of victory; whereas you have to contend for your religion and your libert}'', for your wives and children, and for the tombs of your ancestors." And to this day his courage has not degenerated. He still preserves his bold and elegant gait, his sparkling eye, while his wedge-shaped beak and cruel spurs are ever ready to support his defiant crow. It is no wonder that the breed is not plentiful—first, on account of the few eggs laid by the hen; and, secondly, from the incurable pugnacity of the chicks. Half-fledged broods may be found blind as bats from fighting, and only waiting for the least glimmer of sight to be at it again. Without doubt, the flesh of game fowls is every way superior to that of every chicken of the family. BKOILED FOWL AISTD MUSHROOM SAXJCB. 939. Ingeedients.—A large fowl, seasoning, to taste, of pepper and salt, 2handfuls of button mushrooms, 1 slice of lean ham, f pint of thickened gravy, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, 4 teaspoonful of pounded sugar. GAME FOWLS.