DUTIES OF THE KURSIiMAID. 1013 SO clean and nice to use as the box-iron ; the bottom being bright, and never placed near the fire, it is always perfectly clean ; it should, however, bo kept in a dry place, for fear of its rusting. Gauffcring-tongs or irons must bo placed in a clear fire for a minute, then withdrawn, wiped with a coarse rubber, and the heat of them tried on a piece of paper, as, unless great caro is taken, these will very soon scorch. 2395. The skirts of muslin dresses should be ironed on a skirt-board covered •with flannel, and the fronts of shirts on a smaller board, also covered with flannel; this board being placed between the back and front. 2396. After things are mangled, they should also be ironed in the folds and gathers ; dinner-napkins smoothed over, as also table-cloths, pillow-cases, and sometimes sheets. The bands of flannel petticoats, and shoulder-straps to flannel waistcoats, must also undergo the same x^rocess. UPPER AND TJNDER NUBSEMAIDS. 2397. The nursery is of great importance in every family, and in families of distinction, where there are several young children, it is an establishment kept apart from the rest of the family, under the charge of an upper nurse, assisted by under nursery-maids proportioned to the work to be done. The responsible duties of npper nursemaid commence with the weaning of the child : it must now be separated from the mother or wet-nurse, at least for a time, and the cares of the nursemaid, -which have hitherto been only occasionally put in requisition, are now to be entirely devoted to the infant, "She washes, dresses, and feeds it; walks out with it, and regulates all its little wants ; and, even at this early age, many good qualities are required to do so in a satisfactory manner. Patience and good temper are indispensable qualities; truthfulness, purity of manners, minute cleanliness, and docility and obedience, almost equally so. She ought also to be acquainted with the art of ironing and trimming little caps, and be handy with her needle. 2398. There is a considerable art in carrying an infant comfortably for itself and for the nursemaid. If she carry it always seated upright on her arm, and presses it too closely against her chest, the stomach of the child is apt to get compressed, and the back fatigued. For her own comfort, a good nurse will frequently vary this position, by changing from one arm to the other, and sometimes by laying it across both, raising the head a little. When teaching it to walk, and guiding it by the hand, she should change the hand from time to time, so as to avoid raising one shoulder higher than the other. This is the only way in which a child should be taught to walk; leading-strings and other foolish inventions, which force an infant to make efforts, ^vith its shoulders and head forward, before it knows how to use its hmbs, will only render it feeble, and retard its progress. 2399. Most children have some bad habit, of which they must be broken; but this 13 never accomplished by harshness without developing worse evils: kindness, perseverance, and patience m the nurse, are here of the utmost importance. When fmger-sucldcg is one of these habits, the fingers are sometimes rubbed with bitter aloes, or some equally dis- agreeable substance. Others have dirty habits, which are only to be changed by patience.