745 CREAKS; JELLIES, OMELETS, ETC. as for apple fritters, and fry them a nice brown. Dish them on a white d'oyley, strew sifted sugar over, and serve quickly. lYm^.—About I hour to swell the rice ; from 7 to 10 minutes to fry the fritters. Average cost^ Is. 6f/. Sufficient to make 7 or 8 fritters. Seasonable at any time. BICE SNOWBALLS. {A irretty dish for Juvenile Su}:)ijrrs.) 1479. Ingredients.—6 oz. of rice, 1 quart of milk, flavouring of essence of almonds, sugar to taste, 1 pint of custard made by recipe No. 1423. il/oiZe.—Boil the rice in the milk, with sugar and a flavouring of essence of almonds, until the former is tender, adding, if necessary, a little more milk, should it dry away too much. When the rice is quite soft, put it into teacups, or small round jars, and let it remain until cold ; then turn the rice out on a deep glass dish, pour over a custard made by recipe Is'o. 1423, and, on the top of each ball place a small piece of bright-coloured preserve or jelly. Lemon-peel or vanilla may be boiled with the rice instead of the essence of almonds, when either of these is preferred ; but the flavouring of the custard must corre- spond with that of the rice. Tme.—About f hour to swell the rice in the milk. Average cost, with the custard, Is. 6^7. Sufficient for 5 or 6 children. Seasonable at any time. BICE SOUFrLE. 1480. Ingeedients.—3 tablespoonfuls of ground rice, 1 pint of milk, 5 eggs, pounded sugar to taste, flavouring of lemon-rind, vanilla, coffee, chocolate, or anything that may be preferred, a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix the ground rice with 6 tablespoonfuls of the milk quite smoothly, and put it into a saucepan with the remainder of the millv and butter, and keep stirring it over the fire for about 5 hour, or until the mixture thickens. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the former in a basin, and stir to them the rice and sufli- cient pounded sugar to sweeten the souflle ; but add this latter ingre- dient as sparingly as possible, as, the less sugar there is used, the lighter will be the souflle. Xow whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth or snow; mix them with the other preparation, and pour the whole into a souffle-dish, and put it instantly into the oven; bake it about -2 hour in a moderate oven; take it out, hold a salamander or hot