HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1062 the treatment of any iDarticular case, much sufifering, and, perhaps, some lives, may be say.^d. 2581* Draught.—Twenty grains of sulphate of zinc in an ounce and a half of water. This draught is to be repeated in a quarter of an hour if vomiting does not take place. 2582. Clyster,—Two tablespoonfuls of oil of turpentine in a pint of warm gruel. 2583. Liniments.—1. Equal parts of lime-water and linseed-oil well mixed together. [Lime-water is made thus: Pour 6 pints of boiling water upon \ lb. of lime; mix well together, and when cool, strain the liquid from off the lime which has fallen to the bottom, taking care to get it as clear as possible.] 2. Compound camphor liniment. 2584. Lotions.—1. Mix a dessert-si30onful of Goulard's extract and 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar in a pint of water.—2. Mix ^ oz. of sal-ammoniac, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of gin or whisky, in half a pint of water, 2585. Goulard Lotion.—1 drachm of sugar of lead, 2 pints of rain-w^ater, 2 teaspoonfuls of spirits of wine. For inflammation of the eyes or else- where :—The better way of making Goulard Lotion, if for the eyes, is to add to 6 oz. of distilled water, or water that has been well boiled, 1 drachm of the extract of lead. 2586. Opodeldoc. — This lotion being a valuable application for sprains, lumbago, weakness of joints, &c., and it being difficult to procure either pure or freshly made, wo give a recipe for its preparation. Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in a pint of rectified spirits of wine; then dissolve 4 oz. of hard white Spanish soap, scraped thin, in 4 oz. of oil of rosemary, and mix them together. 2587. The Common Black Draught.—Infusion of senna 10 drachms; Epsom salts 10 drachms; tincture of senna, compound tincture of cardamums, compound spirit of lavender, of each 1 drachm. Families who make black draught in quantity, and wish to preserve it for some time without spoiling, should add about 2 drachms of spirits of hartshorn to each pint of the strained mixture, the use of this drug being to prevent its becoming mouldy or decom- posed. A simpler and equally efficacious form of black draught is made by infusing ^ oz. of Alexandrian senna, 3 oz. of Epsom salts, and 2 drachms of bruised ginger and coriander-seeds, for several hours in a pint of boiling water, straining the liquor, and adding either 2 drachms of sal-volatile or spirits of hartshorn to the whole, and giving 3 tablespoonfuls for a dose to an adult. 2588. Mixtures—1. Aperient.—Dissolve an ounce of Epsom salts in half a pint of senna tea : take a quarter of the mixture as a dose, and repeat it in three or four hours if necessary.