MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. ^2 A PAVINI CAKE. 1771. Ingeedieitts.—4 lb. of flour, i lb. of ground rice, h lb. of raisins stoned and cut into small pieces, f lb. of currants, i lb. of butter, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, i lb. of sifted loaf sugar, i nutmeg grated, 1 pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Mode.—Stone and cut the raisins into small pieces; wash, pick, and dry the currants; melt the butter to a cream, but without oiling it; blanch and chop the almonds, and grate the nutmeg. When all these ingredients are thus prepared, mix them v/ell together; make the milk warm, stir in the soda, and with this liquid make the whole into a paste. Butter a mould, rather more than half fill it with the dough, and bake the cake in a moderate oven from li to 2 hours, or less time should it be made into 2 cakes. Time,—li to 2 hours. Average cost. Is, 8<^. Seasonable at any time. BICE CAKE. 1772. Ingeedients.—I lb. of ground rice, -|- lb. of flour, ilh. of loaf ' sugar, 9 eggs, 20 drops of essence of lemon, or the rind of 1 lemon, , 5 lb. of butter. if/y6^6.—Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs; whisk them both v/ell, and add to the latter the butter beaten to a f cream. Stir in the flour, rice, and lemon (if the rind ; is used, it must be very finely minced), and beat the : mixture well; then add the whites of the eggs, beat' the cake again for some time, put it into a buttered i mould or tin, and bake it for nearly 1^ hour. It may ; be flavoured with essence of almonds, when this is pre- < CAEE-HOULD. 01 lerred. . Time.—!N"early 1^ hour. Average cost. Is. Gd, | Seasonable at any time. M "t- QUEEIT-CAKES. 1773. Ingeedients.—1 lb. of flour, 4 lb. of butter, i lb. of pounded loaf sugar, 3 eggs, 1 teacupful of cream, 41b. of currants, 1 teaspoonful 11 of carbonate of soda, essence of lemon or almonds to taste. I 3fode.—"Work the butter to a cream; dredge in the flour, add the sugar and currants, and mix the ingredients well together. Whisk the eggs, mix them with the cream and flavouring, and stir these to the flour; add the carbonate of soda, beat the paste well for 10 minutes, put it into small buttered pans, and bake the cake from J to i hour.