1010 H0TJ3EH0TJ) MANAGEMENT. cliild is fiir from being* dressed loosely enough ; and we sliall never be satisfied till the abominable use of the ];)in is avoided in toto in an infant's dressing, and a texture made for all the under garments of a child of a cool and elastic material. 2494. The,inanner in which an infant is encircled in a bandage called the roller/' as if it had fractured ribs, compressing those organs—that, living on suction, must be, for the health of the child, to a certain degree distended, to obtain sufficient aliment from the fluid imbibed—is perfectly preposterous. Our humanity, as well as our duty, calls upon us at once to abrogate and dis- countenance by every means in our power. Instead of the process of washing and dressing being made, as with the adult, a refreshment and comfort, it is, by the dawdling manner in which it is performed, the multiplicity of things used, and the perpetual change of position of the infant to adjust its com- plicated clothing', rendered an operation of positive irritation and annoyance. We, therefore, entreat all mothers to regard this subject in its true light, and study to the utmost, simplicity in dress, and dispatch in the proces s. 2495. Children do not so much cry from the washing as from the irritation caused by the frequent change of position in which they are placed, the number of times they are turned on their face, on their back, and on their side, by the manipulations demanded by the multiplicity of articles to be fitted, taclied, and carefully adjusted on their bodies. What mother ever found her girl of six or seven stand quiet while she was curling her hair ? How many times nightly has she not to reprove her for not standing still during the process ! It is the same with the unconscious infant, who cannot bear to be moved about, and who has no sooner grown reconciled to one position than it is forced reluctantly into another. It is true, in one instance the child has intelligence to guide it, and in the other not; but the motitory nerves, in both instances, resent coercion, and a child cannot be too little handled. 2496. On this account alone, and, for the moment, setting health and comfort out of the question, v/e beg mothers to simplify their baby's dress as much as possible ; and not only to put on as little as is absolutely necessary, but to make that as simple in its contrivance and adjustment as it will admit of; to avoid belly-bands, rollers, girths, and everything that can impede or confine the natural expansion of the digestive organs, on the due performance of whose functions the child lives, thrives, and develops its physical being. BEABIISrG- BY HAlMD. Articles necessary, and how to nse them.—Preparation of Foods.— Baths.—Advantages of Bearing by Hand. 2497. As we do not for a moment wish to be thought an advocate for an artificial, in preference to the natural course of rearing children, we bog car