MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 842 I hour, then put them into a well-heated oven. If made into 2 loaves, they will require from I5 to 2 hours* baking. Time.—li to 2 hours. Maize.—IText to wlieat and rice, maize is the grain most used in the nourishraent of man. In Asia, Africa, and America, it is the principal daily food of a large portion of the population, espe- cially of the colonists. In some of the provinces of France, too, it is consumed in large quantities. There are eight varieties of the maize; the most productive is the maize of Cusco. The flour of maize is yellow, and it contains an oily matter, which, when fresh, gives it an agreeable flavour and odour; but the action of the air on it soon develops rancidity. If carried any distance, it should be stored away in air-tight vessels. An excellent soup is prepared with meat and maize-flour. The inhabitants of some countries, where wheat is scarce, make, with maize and water, or milk and salt, a kind of biscuit, which is pleasant in taste, but indigestible. Some of the prepa- rations of maize-flour are very good, and, when partaken in moderation, MAIZE PLAMT. suitable food for almost everybody. eae of maize. SODA BBS AD. 1722. Ikgeedients.—To every 2 lbs. of flour allow 1 teaspoonfu] h of tartaric acid, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of car- J bonate of soda, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold milk. Mode,~Let the tartaric acid and salt be reduced to the finest possible powder ; then mix them well with the flour. Dissolve the soda in the milk, and pour it several times from one basin to another, before adding it to the flour. Work the whole quickly into a light dough, divide it into ' 2 loaves, and put them into a well-heated oven immedi- ately, and bake for an hour. Sour milk or buttermilk may be used, but then a little less acid will be needed. \\ Tifne,—1 hour. Polish and Pomeeaniatt Wheat are accounted by authorities most excellent. Large raft-like barges convey this grain down the rivers, from the interior of the country to the seaports. This corn is described as being white, hard, and thin-skinned; and it yields a large quantity of flour, having a small proportion of bran. EXCELLESTT BOLIiS. 1723. IiTGREDiEKTS.—To every lb. of flour allow 1 oz. of butter, i pint of milk, 1 large teaspoonful of yeast, a little salt.