1078 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 2639. Distinction heiwecii Apo;plexy and Hysterics. — Hysterics mostly happen in youngs nervous, unmarried women ; and are attended with convul- sions, sobbing, laughter, throwing about of the body, &c. &c. 2640. Distinction hetiveen Apoplexy and, Poisoning hy Opium.—It is exceed- ingly difficult to distinguish between these two cases. In poisoning by opium, however, we find the particular smell of the drug in the patient's breath. We should also, in forming our opinion, take into consideration the person's previous conduct—whether he has been low and desponding for some time before, or has ever talked about committing suicide. 2641. Epilepsy.—Falling JSichiess.—These fits mostly happen, at any rate for the first time, to young people, and are more comm^on in boys than girls. They are produced by numerous causes.—Symptoms. The fit may be pre- ceded by pains in the head, palpitations, &c. &c. ; but it mostly happens that the person falls down insensible suddenly, and without any warning whatever. The eyes are distorted, so that only their whites can be seen; there is mostly foaming from the mouth ; the fingers are clinched; and the bod}', especially on one side, is much agitated ; the tongue is often thrust out of the mouth. When the fit goes ofiF, the patient feels drowsy and faint, and often sleeps soundly for some time.—Treatment. During the fit, keep the patient flat on his back, with his head slightly raised, and prevent him from doing any harm to himself; do.sh cold water into his face, and apply smelling-salts to his nose ; loosen his shirt collar, &c. ; hold a piece of wood about as thick as a finger— the handle of a tooth-brush or knife will do as well—between the two rows of teeth, at the back part of the mouth. This will prevent the tongue from being injured. A teaspoonful of common salt thrust into the patient's mouth, during the fit, is of much service. The after-treatment of these fits is various, and depends entirely upon their causes. A good general rule, however, is always to keep the bowels well open, and the patient quiet, and free from fatigue, worry, and excess of all kinds. 2642. Fainting Fits are sometimes very dangerous, and at others perfectly harmless ; the question of danger depending altogether upon the causes which have produced them, and which are exceedingly various. For instance, fainting produced by disease of the heart is a very serious symptom indeed ; whereas, that arising from some slight cause, such as the sight of blood, &;c., need cause no alarm whatever. The symptoms of simple fainting are so well known that it would be quite superfluous to enumerate them here. The treatment consists in laying the patient at full length upon his back, with his head upon a level with the rest of his body, loosening everything about the neck, dashing cold water into the face, and sprinkling vinegar and water about the mouth; applying smelUng-salts to the nose; and, when the patient is able to swallow, in giving a little warm brandy-and-water, or about 20 drops of Bal-volatile in water. 2643. Hysterics.—These fi.ts take place, for the most part, in young, nervous,