MODERN IIOUSEnOLD COOKEIIY. 292 salt to taste, f lb. of flour, J pint of Y.^ater, 2 oz. of butter, the whites of 2 ec'sS. 3fode.—Mix very smootlily, and by degrees, the flour with the above proportion of water; stir in 2 oz. of butter, which must bs melted, but not oiled, and, just before it is to be used, add the whites of tvvo well-whisked eggs. Should the batter be too thick, more water must be added. Pare down the cold beef into thin shreds, season with pepper and salt, and mis it with the batter. Drop a small quantity at a time into a pan of boiling lard, and fry from 7 to 10 minutes, according to the size. Yv'hen done on one side, turn and brown them on the other. Let them dry for a minute or two before the Are, and serve on a folded napkin. A small quantity of finely- minced onions, mixed w^ith the batter, is an improvement. Time.—From 7 to 10 minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, Qd. Seasonable at any time. HASI-IED BEEF (Cold Meat Cookery). I. 628. Ingredients.—Gravy saved from the meat, 1 teaspoonfal of tomato sauce, 1 teaspoonful of Harvey's sauce, 1 teaspoonful of good mushroom ketchup, | glass of port wine or strong ale, pepper and salt to taste, a little flour to thicken, 1 onion finely minced, a few slices of cold roast beef. 3lode.—Put all the ingredients but the beef into a stewpan vnth. whatever gravy may have been saved from the meat the day it wa& roasted ; let these simmer gently for 10 minutes, then take the stewpan ofi' the fire; let the gravy cool, and skim off the fat. Cut the beef into thin slices, dredge them with flour, and lay them^ in the gravy ; let the whole simmer gently for 5 minutes, but not boil, or the meat v.iil be tough and hard. Serve very hot, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Time.—2Q minutes. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, id. Seasonahle at any time. ^ II. 6-29. Ingeedients.—The remains of ribs or sirloin of beef, 2 onions, 1 carrot, 1 bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, | blade of pounded mace, thickening of flour, rather more than 1 pint of water. Mode.—Take off all the meat from the bones of ribs or sirloin of beef; remove the outside brown and gristle; place the meat on one side, and well stew the bones and pieces, with the above ingredients, for about 2 hours, till it becomes a strong gravy, and is reduced to