MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 82 Mode.' Pare and slice the marrows, and put them in the stock boiling. When done almost to a mash, press them through a sieve, and at the moment of serving, add the boiling cream and seasoning. Time.—I hour. Average costt Is. 2c?. per quart. Seasonable in summer. Sufficient for 8 persons. The VEaETABLE Marhow.—TMs is a variety of tlie gourd family, brought from Persia by an East-India ship, and only recently introduced to Britain. It is already cultivated to a VEGETABLE MAEEOW. Considerable extent, and, by many, is highly esteemed when fried with butter. It is, however, dressed in different ways, either by stewing or boiling, and, besides, made into pies. VEGETABLE SOUP. I. , 159. I]sraEEDiEisrTS.-~7 oz. of carrot, 10 oz. of parsnip, 10 oz. of potato, cut into thin slices ; 1J oz. of butter, 5 teaspoonfuls of flour, a teaspoonful of made mustard, salt and pepper to taste, the yolks of 2 eggs, rather more than 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Boil the vegetables in the water 2| hours; stir them often, and if the water boils away too quickly, add more, as there should be 2 quarts of soup when done. Mix up in a basin the butter and flour, mustard, salt, and pepper, with a teacupful of cold water; stir in the soup, and boil 10 minutes. Have ready the yolks of the eggs in the tureen ; pour on, stir well, and serve. TVme.—S hours. Average costf id. per quart. Seasonable in winter. Sufficient for 8 persons. 11. 160. Ingredients.—Equal quantities of onions, catrots, turnips; 1 lb. of butter, a crust of toasted bread, 1 head of celery, a faggot of herbs, salt and pepper to taste, 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 2 quarts of common stock or boiling water. Allow J lb. of vegetables to 2 quarts of stock, No. 105. Mode.—Cut up the onions, carrots, and turnips; wash and drain them well, and put them in the stewpan with the butter and pow- dered sugar. Toss the whole over a sharp fire for 10 minutes, but do not let them brown, or you will spoil the flavour of the soup. When done, pour the stock or boiling water on them; add the bread, celery, herbs, and seasoning; stew for 3 hours; skim well and strain it off.