POIIK. B&l at the part you are about to commence at; tlien with the point of the larding-needle make three distinct lines across, I inch apart; run the needle into the third line, at the further side of the fricandeau, and bring- it out at the first, placing one of the lardoons in it; draw the needle through, leaving out J inch of the bacon at each line ; proceed thus to the end of the row; then make another line, i inch distant, stick in another row of lardoons, bringing them out at the second line, leaving the ends of the bacon out all the same length; make the next row again at the same distance, bringing the ends out between the lardoons of the first row, proceeding in this manner until the whole jsurface is larded in chequered rows. Everything else is larded in a similar way; and, in the case of poultry, hold the breast over a charcoal fire for one minute, or dip it into boiling water, in order to make the flesh firm." BOAST LOm OF PORIL 829. Ingeedieitts.—Pork; a little salt. 3fods.-~BQOTQ the skin in strips rather more than f inch apart, and place the joint at a good distance from the fire, on account of the SOEE LOIN OF PORK. HIND LOIN 03? POKE. crackling, which would harden before the meat would be heated through, were it placed too near. If very lean, it should be rubbed over with a little salad oil, and kept well basted all the time it is at the fire. Pork should be very thoroughly cooked, but not dry ; and be careful never to send it to table the least underdone, as nothing is more unwholesome and disagreeable than underdressed white meats. Serve with apple sauce, No. 363, and a little gravy made in the dripping-pan. A stuffing of sage and onion may be made separately, and baked in a flat dish t this method is better than putting it in the meat, as many persons have so great an objection to the flavour. Time.~K loin of pork weighing 5 lbs., about 2 hours : allow more time should it be very fat. Average cost, ^d. per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from September to March. Fossil Remains of the Hog.—In British strata, the oldest fossil remains of the ho» which Professor Owen states that he has examined, were from fissures in the red crag i (probably miocene) of Newbourne, near Woodbridge, Suffolk. " They were associated