MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. €16 ment caused inquiries to be instituted as to the possibility of finding a substitute for it. Accordinglj, it was ascertained tliat sugar exists in the whole vegetable kingdom; that it is to be found in the grape, chestnut, potato; but that, far above all, the beet contains ifc in a large proportion. Thus the beet became an object of the most careful culture; find many experiments went to prove that in this respect the old world Avas independent of the new. Many manufactories came into existence in all parts of France, and the makiug of sugar became naturalized in that country. COMMON- SHORT CBUST. 1212. IisGiiEDiENTS.—To every pound of flour allow 2 oz. of sifted sugar, 3 oz. of butter, about | pint of boiling- milk. Idode.—Crumble the butter into the flour as finely as possible, add the sugar, and work the whole up to a smooth paste with the boiling milk. Koll it out thin, and bake in a moderate oven. Average cost, 6d, per lb. Qualities of Sugar.—Sugars obtained from various plants are, in fact, of the same nature, and have no intrinsic difference when they have become equally purified by the same processes. Taste, crystallization, colour, weight, are absolutely identical; and the most acute observer cannot distinguish the one from the other. BUTTEH CRUST, for Boiled Puddings. 1213. Ingredients.—To every lb. of flour allow 6 oz. of butter, I pint of water. Mode.—With, a knife, work the flour to a smooth paste with f pint of water; roll the crust out rather thin ; place the butter over it ia small pieces ; dredge lightly over it some flour, and fold the paste over; repeat the rolling once more, and the crust will be rea,dy for 1738. It may be enriched by adding another 2 oz. of butter; but, for ordinary purposes, the above quantity will be found quite suScient. Average costy 6d. per lb. DBIPPING- CBUST, for Kitchen Puddings, Pies, &c. 1214. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of flour allow 6 oz. of clari- fied beef dripping", 4 pint of water. J/o£^e.—Alter having clarified the dripping, by either of the recipes jSFo. 621 or 622, weigh it, and to every lb. of flour allow the above proportion of dripping. Y/ith a knife, work the flour into a smooth paste with the water, rolling it out 3 times, each time placing on the crust 2 oz. of the dripping, broken into small pieces. If this paste is lightly made, if good dripping is used, and not too much of it, it will be found good ; and by the addition of two table spoonfuls of fine moist sugar, it may be converted into a common short crust for fruit pies. Average cost, Ad. per pound. Water :—What the Ai.^ciekts Thought op it.—All the nations of antiquity pos- S3ssed great veneration for water: ILius, the Egyptians offered prayers and homage to v/ater, and the Nile was an especial objecfc of their adoration; the Persians would not