FISH sours. 101 HODGE-PODGE. 191. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of shin of beef, 3 quarts of water, 1 pint of table-beer, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 head of celery ; pepper and salt to taste ; thickening of butter and flour. 3Iode.—'Pi\t the meat, beer, and water in a stewpan ; simmer for a few minutes, and skim carefully. Add the vegetables and seasoning-; stew gently till the meat is tender. Thicken with the butter and Hour, and serve with turnips and carrots, or spinach and celery. Time.—Z hours, or rather more. Average cost, Sd. per quart. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient for 12 persons. Table Beeb.—This is nothing more than a weak ale, and is not made so much with a view to strength, as to transparency of colour and an agreeable bitterness of taste. It is, or ought to be, manufactured by the London professional brewers, from the best pale malt, or amber and malt. Six barrels are usually drawn from one quarter of malt, with which are mixed 4 or 5 lbs. of hops. As a beverage, it is agreeable when fresh; but it is not adapted to keep long. FISH SOUPS. FISH STOCK. 192. Ingredients.—2 lbs. of beef or veal (these can be omitted), any kind of white fish trimmings, of fish which are to be dressed for table, 2 onions, the rind of ^ a lemon, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 car- rots, 2 quarts of water. Mode.—Cut up the fish, and put it, with the other ingredients, into the water. Simmer for 2 hours ; skim the liquor carefully, and strain it. When a richer stock is wanted, fry the vegetables and fish before adding the water. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, with meat, 10c?. per quart; with- out, Zd. JVote.—Do not make fish stock long before it is wanted, as it soon turns sour, CBAYFISH SOUP. 193. Ingeedients.—50 crayfish, i lb. of butter, 6 anchovies, the crumb of 1 French roll, a little lobster-spawn, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of medium stock, No. 105, or fish stock, "^o. 192. Mode.—Shell the crayfish, and put the fish between two plates until they are wanted; pound the shells in a mortar, with the butter and anchovies ; when well beaten, add a pint of stock, and simmer for f of an hour. Strain it through a hair sieve, put the remainder of the