MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 860 3 eggs, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 oz. of caraway seeds, ^ lb. of currants. Mode.—Put the flour and baking-powder into a basin; stir these together; then rub in the dripping, add the sugar, caraway seeds, and currants; whisk the eggs with the milk, and beat all together very thoroughly until the ingredients are well mixed. Butter a tin, put in the cake, and bake it from li to 2 hours. Let the dripping be quite clean before using : to insure this, it is a good plan to clarify it. Beef dripping is better than any other for cakes, &c., as mutton dripping frequently has a very unpleasant flavour, which would be imparted to the preparation. Time.—l\ to 2 hours. Average cost, \s. Seasonable at any time. A NICE PLAIET CAKE FOB CHILDBEN. 1767. INGREDIENTS.—1 quartcm of dough, \ lb. of moist sugar, Jib, of butter or good beef dripping, i pint of warm milk, i grated nutmeg or i oz. of caraway seeds. Mode,—If you are not in the habit of making bread at home, procure the dough from the baker's, and, as soon as it comes in, put it into a basin near the fire; cover the basin with a thick cloth, and let the dough remain a little while to rise. In the mean time, beat the butter to a cream, and make the milk warm ; and when the dough has risen, mix with it thoroughly all the above ingredients, and knead the cake well for a few minutes. Butter some cake-tins, half fill them, and stand them in a warm place, to allow the dough to rise again. When the tins are three parts full, put the cakes into a good oven, and bake them from If to 2 hours. A few currants might be substituted for the caraway seeds when the flavour of the latter is disliked. Time,—If to 2 hours. Average cost, Is, 2d, Seasonable at any time. COMMOIT PLUM CAKE« 17S8. Ingredients.—3 lbs, of flour, 6 oz. of butter or good dripping, 6 oz. of moist sugar, 6 oz. of currants, ^ oz. of pounded allspice, 2 table- spoonfuls of fresh yeast, 1 pint of new milk. 3fode.—Riih the butter into the flour; add the sugar, currants, and allspice ; warm the milk, stir to it the yeast, and mix the whole into a dough ; knead it well, and put it into 6 buttered tins ; place them near the fire for nearly an hour for the dough to rise, then bake the cakes in a good oven from 1 to hour. To ascertain when they are done,