730 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. pour the custard over the hot macaroni; grate over it a little nut- meg, and, when cold, garnish the dish with slices of candied citron. Time.—From 40 to 50 minutes to swell the macaroni. Average cost, with the custard, Is. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time. IvISRIITGUES. 1451. IyGP.EDiE:%TS.—^ lb. of pounded sugar, the whites of 4 eggs. Mode.—TVhisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and, with a vrooden spoon, stir in quiclihj the ponnded sugar ; and have some boards thick enough to put in the oven to prevent the bottom of the meringues from acquiriag too much colour. Cut some strips of paper about 2 inches wide ; place this paper on the board, and drop a table- spoonful at a time of the mixture on the paper, taking care to let all the meringues be the same size. In dropping it from the spoon, give the mixture the form of an egg, and keep the meringues about 2 inches apart from each otlier on the paper. Strew over them some sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for \ hour. As soon as they begin to colour, remove them from the oven ; take each slip of papc-r by the two ends, and turn it gently on the table, and, with a small spoon, t^ke out the soft part of each meringue. Spread some clean paper on the board, turn the meringues upside down, and put them into the oven to harden and brown on the other side. When required for table, fill them with whipped cream, favoured with liqueur or vanilla, and sweetened with pounded sugar. Join two of the merin- gues together, and pile them high in the dish, as shown in the annexed drawing. To vary their appearance, finely-chopped almonds or cur- rants may be strewn over them before the sugar is sprinkled over; and they may be garnished with any bright-coloured preserve. Great expedition is necessary in making this sweet dish; as, if the me- ringues are not put into the oven as soon as the sugar and eggs are mixed, the former melts, and the mixture would run on the paper, instead of keeping its egg-shape. The sweeter the meringues are made, the crisper w^ill they be; but, if there is not sufiicient sugar mixed with them, they will most likely be tough. They are some- times coloured with cochineal; and, if kept well covered in a dry place, will remain good for a month or six weeks.