822 MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKER i. greater capacity of the organs of digestion. Besides the advantage of increased bulk and finer fleeces^, the breeder seeks to obtain an augmented deposit of tissue in those parts of the carcase most esteemed as food, or, what are called in the trade "prime joints and so far has this been effected, that the com- j)arative weight of the hind quarters over the fore has become a test of quality in the breed, the butchers in some markets charging twopence a pound more for that portion of the sheep. Indeed, so superior are the hind quarters of mutton now regarded, that very many of the Yv^est-end butchers never deal in any other part of the sheep. 683. The Difeeuence in the Quality of the Flesh in various breeds is a well-established fact, not alone in flavour, but also in tenderness ; and that the nature of the pasture on which the sheep is fed influences the flavour of the meat, is equally certain, and shown in the estimation in which those flocks are held which have grazed on the thymy heath of Bamstead in Sussex. It is also a well-established truth, that the larger the frame of the animal, the coarser is the meat, and that small hones are both guarantees for the fineness of the breed and the delicacy of the flesh. The sex too has much to do in determining the quality of the meat; in the males, the lean is closer in fibre, deeper in colour, harder in texture, less juicy, and freer from fat, than in the female, and is consequ-ently tougher and more diflicult of digestion ; but probably age, and the character of the pasturage on which they are reared, has^ more than any other cause, an influence on the quality and tenderness of the meat. 684. The numerous Varieties of sheep inhabiting the different regions of the earth have been reduced by Cavier to three, or at most four, species : the Ovis Ammon, or the Argali, the presumed parent stock of all the rest; the Ovis TragelapJms, the bearded sheep of Africa; the Ovis Altismon, the Mus- mon of Southern Europe; and the Ovis montana, the Mouflon of America; though it is believed by many naturalists that this last is so nearly identical with the Indian Argali as to be undeserving a separate place. It is still a controversy to which of tliesG three we are indebted for the many breeds of modern domestication; the Argali, hov»^ever, by general belief, has been con- sidered as the most 2^rohahle progenitor of the present varieties. 685. The Effects produced by Change of Climate, accident, and other causes, must have been great to accomplish so complete a physical alteration as the primitive Argali must have undergone before the Musmon, or Mouflon of Corsica, the immediate progenitor of all our European breeds, assumed his present appearance. The Argali is about a fifth larger in size than the ordi- nary English sheep, and being a native of a tropicial clime, his fleece is of hair instead of wool, and of a warm reddish brown, approaching to yellow; a thick mane of darker hair, about seven inches long, commences from two long tufts at the angle of the jaws, a,nd, rmimxig under the throat and neck, descends down the chest, dividing, at the fore fork, into two parts, one running