THE DOCTOR. 1069 rules for tlie reader's guidance. In the first place make the joint, from which the bone has been displaced^ perfectly steady, either by fixing it to some firm object or else by holding it with the hands ; then pull the dislocated bone in a direction towards the place from which it has been thrust, so that, if it moves at all from its unnatural position, it may have the best chance of returning to its proper place. Do not, however, pull or press against the parts too violently, as you may, perhaps, by doing so, rupture blood-vessels, and produce most serious consequences. When you do attempt to reduce a dislocated bone, do it as quickly as possible after the accident has taken place, every hour making the operation more difficult. When the patient is very strong, he may be put into a warm bath until he feels faint, or have sixty drops of antimonial wine given him every ten minutes until he feels sickish. These two means are of great use in relaxing the muscles. If the bone has been brought back again to its proper place, keep it there by means of bandages; and if there is much pain about the joint, apply a cold lotion to it, and keep it perfectly at rest. The lotion should be, a dessert-spoonful of Goulard's extract, and two table- spoonfuls of vinegar, mixed in a pint of water. Leeches are sometimes ne- cessary. Unless the local pain, or general feverish symptoms, are great, the patient's diet should be the same as usual. Dislocations may be reduced a week, or even a fortnight, after they have taken place. As, therefore, although the sooner a bone is reduced the better, there is no very great emergency, and as the most serious consequences may follow improper or too violent treatment, it is always better for people in these cases to do too little than too much ; in- asmuch as the good which has not yet may still be done, whereas the evil that has been done cannot so easily be undone. 2615. Fractures op Bones.—^?/3?ij;fom5. 1. Deformity of the part. 2. Unnatural looseness. 3. A grating sound when the two ends of the broken bone are rubbed together. 4. Loss of natural motion and power. In some cases there is also shortening of the limb.—Fracture takes place from several causes, as a fall, a blow, a squeeze^ and sometimes fi'om the violent action of muscles.—Treatment. In cases where a surgeon cannot be procured im- mediately after the accident, the following general rules are offered for the reader's guidance :—The broken limb should be placed and kept as nearly as possible in its natural position. This is to be done by fii'st pulling the two portions of the bone in opposite directions, until the limb becomes as long as the opposite one, and then by applying a splint, and binding it to the part by means of a roller. When there is no deformity, the pulling is of course un- necessary. If there is much swelling about the broken part, a cold lotion is to be applied. This lotion {icMch we will call Lotion No. 1) may be thus made:—Mix a dessert-spoonful of Goulard's extract and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar in a pint of water. When the leg or arm is broken, always, if possible, get it to the same length and form as the opposite limb. The broken part should be kept perfectly quiet. When a broken limb is deformed, and a particular muscle is on tho stretch, place the limb in such a position as will relax it. This will in most cases cm'e the deformity. Brandy-and-water, or