144 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. them, and strain the liquor free from grit. Put 1 oz. of butter into a stewpan; when melted, dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up; add the stock, cream, and strained liquor, and give one boil. Put in the oysters and seasoning ; let them gradually heat through, but not boil. Have ready the scallop-shells buttered; lay in the oysters, and as much of the liquid as they will hold; cover them over with bread crumbs, over which drop a little oiled butter. Brown them in the oven, or before the fire, and serve quickly, and very hot. Time,—Altogether, \ hour. Average cost for this quantity, 3s. Qd, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. K. Prepare the oysters as in the preceding recipe, and put them in a scallop-shell or saucer, and between each layer sprinkle over a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; place small pieces of butter over, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Put sufficient bread crumbs on the top to make a smooth surface, as the oysters should not be seen. Timc—khoui J hour. Average cost, Zs, 2d, Seasonable from September to April. STEWED OYSTEBS. ^88. Ingeedients.—1 pint of oysters, 1 oz. of butter, flour, J pint of cream; cayenne and salt to taste; 1 blade of pounded mace. Mode,—Scald the oysters in their own liquor, take them out, beard them, and strain the liquor; put the butter into a stewpan, dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up, add the oyster-liquor and mace, and stir it over a sharp fire with a wooden spoon; when it comes to a boil, add the cream, oysters, and seasoning. Let all simmer for 1 or 2 minutes, but not longer, or the oysters would harden. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with croutons, or toasted sippets of bread, . A small piece of lemon-peel boiled with the oyster-liquor, and taken ^ out before the cream is added, will be found an improvement. Time,—Altogether 15 minutes. Average cost for this quantity, ds, 6d, Seasonable from September to April, Sufficient for 6 persons. The Otstee and inE Scallop.—The oyster is described as ab'valve shell-iish, having the valves generally unequal. The hinge is without teeth, but furnished with a some- what oval cavity, and mostly with lateral transverse grooves. From a similarity in the structure of the hinge, oysters and scallops have been classified as one tribe; but they differ very essentially both in their external appearance and their habits. Oysters adhere to rocks,^r, as in two or three species, to roots of trees on the shore; while tha scallops are always detached, and usually lurk in the sand.