MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 478 its full growtli, and not begun to harden; if tlie Marcli goose is insipid, the Michaelmas goose is rank. The fine time is "between both; from the second week in June to the Urst in September." It is said that the Michaelmas goose is indebted to Queen Elizabeth for its origin on the table at that season. Her majesty happened to dine on one at the table of an English baronet, when she received the news of the dis- comfiture of the Spanish Armada. In commemoration of this event, she commanded the goose to make its appearance at table on every Michaelmas. We here give an engraving of the Emden goose. TO DBESS A GBEEIT GOOSS. 969. li^GEEDiEKTS.—Goose, 3 oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Ifode,—Geese are called green till tliey are about four months old, and should not be stuffed. After it has been singed and trussed, the same as in the preceding recipe, put into the body a seasoning of pepper and salt, and the butter to moisten it inside. Eoast before a clear fire for about f hour, froth and brown it nicely, and serve with a brown gravy, and, when liked, gooseberry-sauce. This dish should be garnished with water-cresses. Time.—About f hour* Average costy 4s. Qd. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable in June, July, and August. Tns Egyptiatt Goose.—Especial attention has been directed to this bird by Herodotus, who says it was held sacred by the ancient Egyptians, which has been partially contii-med by modern travellers. Mr. Salt remarks, " Horns Apollo says the old geese stay with their young in the most imminent danger, at the risk of their own lives, which I have myself frequently witnessed. Vielpanser is the goose of the Nile, and ■wherever this goose is represented on the walls of the temples in colours, the re- semblance may be clearly traced." The goose is also said to have been a bird under the care of Isis. It has been placed by Mr. G-ould amongst the birds of Europe; not from the number of lialf- reclaimed individuals which are annually shot in Britain, but from the eircum- stance of its occasionally visiting the southern parts of the continent from its native country, Africa. The Toulouse , goose, of which we give an engraving, is a well-known bird. ' BOAST GUIISTEA-FOWIi, Larded. 970. Ikgeei>ie2tts.—A Guinea-fowl, lardoons, flour, and salt. Ifode.—Yihen this bird is larded, it should be trussed the same as a pheasant; if plainly roasted, truss it like a turkey. After larding and trussing it, put it down to roast at a brisk fire; keep it well. basted, and a short time before serving, dredge it with a little flour, and let it froth nicely. Serve with a little gravy in the dish, and a ; tureen of the same, and one of well-made bread-sauce. i TOULOrSE GOOSE.