865 THE HOG. salted, or di'ied, is used for food ; and even those viscera not so employed aro of the utmost utility in a domestic point of view. 777. Though destitute op the Hide, Horns, and Hoofs, constituting the offal of most domestic animals, tho pig- is not behind the other mammalia in its usefulness to man. Its skin, especially that of the boar, from its extreme closeness of texture, when tanned, is employed for the seats of saddles, to cover powder, shot, and drinking-flasks; and the hair, according to its colour, flexibility, and stubbornness, is manufactured into tooth, nail, and hair- brushes,—others into hat, clothes, and shoe-brushes; while .the longer and finer qualities are made into long and short brooms and painters' brushes ; and a still more rigid description, under the name of bristles," are used by the shoemaker as needles for the passage of his wax-end. Besides so many bene- fits and useful services conferred on man by this valuable animal, his fat, in a commercial sense, is quite as important as his flesh, and brings a price equal to the best joints in the carcase. This fat is rendered, or melted out of the caul, or membrane in which it is contained, by boiling water, and, while liquid, run into prepared bladders, when, under the name of lard, it becomes an article of extensive trade and value. 778. Of the numerous Varieties of the Domesticated Hog, the fol- lowing list of breeds may be accepted as the best, presenting severally all those qualities aimed at in the rearing of domestic stock, as affecting both the breeder and the consumer. Native—Berkshire, Essex, York, and Cumber- land; Foreign—tho Chinese. Before, however, proceeding with the con- sideration of the different orders, in the series we have placed them, it will be necessary to make a few remarks relative to the pig generally. In the first place, the Black Pig is regarded by breeders as the best and most eligible animal, not only from the fineness and delicacy of the skin, but because it is less affected by the heat in summer, and far less sul»ject to cuticular disease than either the white or brindled hog, but more particularly from its kindlier nature and greater aptitude to fatten. 779. The Great Quality first sought for in a Hog is a capacious stomach, and next, a healthy power of digestion ; for the greater the quantity lie can eat, and the more rapidly he can digest* what he has eaten, the more quickly will he fatten ; and the faster he can be made to increase in flesh, with- out a material increase of bone, the better is the breed considered, and the more valuable the animal. In the usual order of nature, the development of flesh and enlargement of bone proceed together; but here the object is to outstrip the growth of the bones by the quicker development of their fleshy covering. 780. The Chief Points sought for in the Choice op a Hog are breadth of chest, depth of carcase, width of loin, chine, and ribs, compactness of form, docility, cheerfulness, and general beauty of appearance. The head