HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 5,189, While attentive to all, the footman should be obtrusive to none; he should give nothing but on a waiter, and always hand it with the left hand and on the left side of the person he serves, and hold it so that the guest may take it with case. In lifting dishes from the table, he should use both hands, and remove them with care, so that nothing is spilt on the table-cloth or on the dresses of the guests. 2190. Masters as well as servants sometimes make mistakes ; but it is not expected that a servant will correct any omissions, even if he should have time to notice them, although with the best intentions : thus it would not be correct, for instance, if he observed that his master took wine with the ladies all round, as some gentlemen still continue to do, but stopped at some one :—to nudge him on the shoulder and say, as was done by the servant of a Scottish gentle- man, "What ails you at her in the green gown ?" It will be better to leavo^ the lady unnoticed than for the servant thus to turn his master into ridicule. 2191. During dinner each person's knife, fork, plate, and spoon should bo changed as soon as he has done with it; the vegetables and sauces belonging to the different dishes presented vv'ithout remark to the guests ; and the foot- man should tread lightly in moving round, and, if possible, should bear in mind, if there is a wit or humorist of the party, whose good things keep the table in a roar, that they are not expected to reach his ears. 2192. In opening wine, lot it be done quietly, and without slialdng the bottle; if crusted, let it be inclined to the crusted side, and decanted while in that position. la opening champagne, it is not necessary to discbarge it with a pop; properly cooled, tho cork is easily extracted without an explosion ; when the cork is out, the mouth of the bottle should be wiped with the napkin over the footman's arm. 2193. At the end of the first course, notice is conveyed to the cook, who is waiting to send up the second, which is introduced in the same way as before ; the attendants who remove the fragments, carrying the dishes from the kitchen, and handing them to the footman or butler, whoso duty it is to arrange them on the table. After dinner, the dessert-glasses and wines are placed on tho table by the footman, who places himself behind his master's chair, to supply wine and hand round the ices and other refreshments, all other servants leaving the room. 1194. As soon as the drav/ing-room bell rings for tea, the footman enters with the tray, which has been previously prepared ; hands the tray round to-tho company, with cream and sugar, the tea and coffee being generally poured out, while another attendant hands cakes, toast, or biscuits. If it is an ordinary family party, where this social meal is prepared by the mistress, he carries tho urn or kettle, as the case may be ; hands round the toast, or such other eatablo as may be required, removing the whole in the same manner when tea is over.