MEAT, rOULTRT, AND GAME S0Ur3. 95 and add the sn^ar and seasoning. N'ow simmer tlie cut carrot and turnip in 1 pint of stock; when quite tender, put them to the- partridges, and serve. Time.—2 hours. Average cost, 2s. or Is. Qd. per quart. Seasonable from September to February. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—The meat of the partridges may be pounded with tlie crumb of a French roll, and worked with the soup through a sieve. Serve with stewed celery cut in slices, and put in the tureen. The Pakteidge.—This is a timorous'bird, being easily taken. It became known to the Greeks and Romans, whose tables it helped to fui'nish with food. Formerly, the lied was scarce in Italy, but its place was supplied by the White, which, at considerable expense, was frequently procured from the Alps. The Athenians trained this bird for fighting, and Severus used to lighten the cares of royalty by witnessing the spirit of its combats. The Greeks esteemed its leg most highly, and rejected the other por- tions as unfashionable to be eaten. The Romans, however, ventured a little further, and ate the breast, whilst we consider the bird as wholly palatable. It is an inhabitant of all the temperate countries of Europe, but, on account of the geniality of the climate, it abounds most in the Ukraine. PHEASANT SOUP. 179. Ingeedients.-~2 pheasants, \ lb. of butter, 2 slices of ham, 2 large onions sliced, f head of celery, the crumb of two Frencli rolls, the yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard, salt and cayenne to taste, a little pounded mace, if liked; 3 quarts of stock No. 105. 3Iode.—Qut up the pheasants, flour and braise them in the butter and ham till they are of a nice brown, but not burnt. Put them in a stewpan, with the onions, celery, and seasoning, and simmer for 2 hours. Strain the soup ; pound the breasts with the crumb of the roll previously soaked, and the yolks of the eggs; put it to the soup, give one boil, and serve. Time.~2i hours. Average cost, 2s. lOd. per quart, or, if made with fragments of gold game. Is. Seasonable from October to February. Sufficient for 10 persons. Note.—Fragments, pieces and bones of cold game, may be used to great advantage in this soup, and then 1 pheasant will suffice. PORTABLE SOUP. 180. Ingredients.—2 knuckles of veal, 3 shins of beef, 1 large faggot of herbs, 2 bay-leaves, 2 heads of celery, 3 onions, 3 carrots, 2 blades of mace, 6 cloves, a teaspoonful of salt, sufficient water to cover all the ingredients. 3Iode,—Take the marrow from the bones ; put all the ingredients in a stock-pot, and simmer slowly for 12 hours, or more, if the meat be not done to rags; strain it off, and put it in a very cool place;