116 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. ANCHOVY BUTTER OR PASTE. 227. Ingredients.—2 dozen ancliovies, lib. of fresh butter. Mode.—Wash, the anchovies thoroughly; bone and dry them, and pound them in a mortar to a paste. Mix the butter gradually with them, and rub the whole through a sieve. Put it by in small pots for use, and carefully exclude the air with a bladder, as it soon changes the colour of anchovies, besides spoiling them. Average cost for this quantity, 2s. POTTED ANCHOVIES. Potted Anchovies are made in the same way, by adding pounded mace, cayenne, and nutmeg to taste. ANCHOVY TOAST. 5-28. Ingredients.—Toast 2 or 3 slices of bread, or, if wanted very savoury, fry them in clarified butter, and spread on them the paste, No. 227. Made mustard, or a few grains of cayenne, may be added to the paste before laying it on the toast. Akchovy Paste.—"When some delicate zest," says a work just issued on the adulte- rations of trade, *'is required to mate the plain English breakfast more palatable, many people are in the habit of indulging in what they imagine to be anchovies. These fish are preserved in a kind of piekling-bottle, carefully corked down, and surrounded by a red-looking liquor, resembling in appearance diluted clay. The price is moderate, one shilling only being demanded for the luxury. When these anchovies are what is termed potted, it implies that the fish have been pounded into the consistency of a paste, and then placed in flat pots, somewhat similar in shape to those used for pomatum. This paste is usually eaten spread upon toast, and is said to form an excellent boiine louche, which enables gentlemen at wine-parties to enjoy their port with redoubled gusto. Unfortunately, in six cases out often, the only portion of these preserved delicacies, that contains anything indicative of anchovies, is the paper label pasted on the bottle or pot, on which the word itself is printed. . . . All the samples of anchovy paste, analyzed by different medical men, have been found to be highly and vividly coloured with very largo quantities of bole Armenian." The anchovy itself, when imported, is of a dark dead colour, and it is to make it a bright *' handsome-looking sauce " that this red earth is used. BARBEL. 229. Ingeedients.—i pint of port wine, a saltspoonful of salt, 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 sliced onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, nutmeg and mace to taste, the juice of a lemon, 2 anchovies; 1 or 2 barbels, according to size. Mode.—Boil the barbels in salt and water till done ; pour off some of the water, and, to the remainder, put the ingredients mentioned above. Simmer gently for i hour, or rather more, and strain. Put in the fish; heat it gradually; but do not let it boil, or it will be broken.