215 SAUCES^ ETC. roast beef, put it in a bain marie or a jar, which place in a saucepan of boiling water; make it hot, but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle. ^i'S j}^ote.—This sauce is a great improvement on the old-fashioned way of serving cold-scraped horse- radish with hot roast beef. The mixing of the cold vinegar with the warm gravy cools and spoils every- thing on the plate. Of course, with cold meat, the sauce should be served cold. The Horseradish.—This has been, for many years, a faTourite accompaniment of roast beef, and is a native of England. It grows wild in wet ground, but has long been cultivated in the garden, and is, occasionally, used in winter salads and in sauces. On account of the great volatility of its oU, it should never be preserved by drying, but should be kept moist by being buried in sand. So rapidly does its volatile oil evaporate, that even when scraped for the table, it almost immediately spoils by exposure to the air. inE HORSERADISH. HOBSEBADISH VINSGAB. 448. Ingeedients.—J lb. of scraped horseradish, 1 oz. of minced shalot, 1 drachm of cayenne, 1 quart of vinegar. 3fode—Tut all the ingredients into a bottle, which shake well every day for a fortnight. When it is thoroughly steeped, strain and bottle, and it will be fit for use immediately. This will be found an agreeable relish to cold beef, &e. Seasonable.—This vinegar should be made either in October or ]N"ovember, as horseradish is then in its highest perfection. INDIAN CUBBY-POWDEK, founded on Dr. Kitchener's Becipe. 449. Ikgeedients.—J lb. of coriander-seed, i lb. of turmeric, 2 oz. of cinnamon-seed, i oz. of cayenne, 1 oz. of mustard, 1 oz. of ground ginger, J ounce of allspice, 2 oz. of fenugreek-seed. 3£ode.—Put all the ingredients in a cool oven, where they should remain one night; then pound them in a mortar, rub them through a sieve, and mix thoroughly together ; keep the powder in a bottle, from which the air should be completely excluded. Note.—We have given this recipe for curry-powder^ as some persons prefe, to make it at home ; but that purchased at any respectable shop is. generally speaking, far superior, and; taking ail things into consideration, very frequently more economical. INDIAN MUSTABD, an excellent Belisli to Bread and Butter, or any cold Meat. 450. lixGEEDiENTS.-—i lb. of the best mustard, i lb. of fiour, i oz.