risH. 169 FBIED WHITING. 345. Ingeedients.—Egg' and bread crumbs, a little flour, hot lard or clarified dripping. IIode.—Tsike off the skin, clean, and thoroughly wipe the fish free from all moisture, as this is most essential, in order that the egg and bread crumbs may properly adhere. Fasten the tail in the mouth by means of a small skewer, brush the fish over with egg, dredge with a little flour, and cover with bread crumbs. Fry them in hot lard or clarified dripping of a nice colour, and serve them on a napkin, gar- nished with fried parsley. {See Coloured Plate D.) Send them to table with shrimp sauce and plain melted butter. Time.—About 6 minutes. Average cost, 4:d. each. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March. Sufficient^ 1 small whiting for each person. I^oie.—L^vgQ whitings may be filleted, rolled, and served as fried filleted soles {see Coloured Plate A). SmrJl fried wliitings are frequently used for garnishing large boiled fish^ such as turbot, cod, &c. WHITma AU GRATIOT, or BAESD WHITING. 34^. Ingredients.—4 whiting, butter, 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley, a few chopped mushrooms when obtainable ; pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste; butter, 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, bread crumbs. Mode,—Grease the bottom of a baking-dish with butter, and over it, strew some minced parsley and mushrooms. Scale, empty, and w^ash the whitings, and wipe them thoroughly dry, carefully preserving the livers. Lay them in the dish, sprinkle them with bread crumbs and seasoning, adding a little grated nutmeg, and also a little more minced parsley and mushrooms. Place small pieces of butter over the w^hiting, moisten Vv^ith the wine, and bake for 20 minutes in a hot oven. If there should be too much sauce, reduce it by boiling over a sharp fire for a few minutes, and pour under the fish. Serve with a cut lemon, and no other sauce. Tiine.—20 minutes. Average cost, 4:d. each. Seasonable all the year, but best from October to March, Sufficient.—This quantity for 4 or 5 persons. WHITIK-G AUX FmES HERBES. 347. Ingeedients.—1 bunch of sweet herbs chopped very fine; butter. JXof?e.~Clean and skjn the fish, fasten the tails in the mouths, and