21-1 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. always be j^repared some hours before required. Where salads are much in request, it is a good plan to bottle off sufficient dressing for a few days' con- sumption, as, thereby, much time and trouble are saved. If kept in a cool place, it will remain good for 4 or 5 days. Poetic Eecipe tok Salad—The Eev. Sydney Smith, the witty canon of St. Paul's, who thought that an enjoyment of the good things of this earth was compatible with aspirations for things higher, wrote the following excellent recipe for salad, which we should advise our readers not to x^ass by without a trial, when the hot weather invites to a dish of cold lamb. May they find the flavour equal to the rhyme.— *' Two large potatoes, pass'd through kitchen sieve, Smoothness and softness to the salad give : Of mordent mustard add a single spoon, Distrust the condiment that bites too soon; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, To add a double quantity of salt: Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crowu, And twice with vinegar procured from ' town;' _ True flavour needs it, and your poet begs. The pounded yellow of two well-boil'd eggs. Let onion's atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, anim.ate the whole ; And, lastly, in the flavour'd compound toss A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. Oh ! great and glorious, and herbaceous treat, 'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul, ^ And plunge his fingers in the salad-bowl." SAUCE AliliEMANDE, or GERMAIM SAUCE. 509. Iis-GEEDiENTS.—i pint of saucG tournee (No. 517), the yolks of 2 eggs. Mode.—Put the sauce into a stewpan, heat it, and stir to it the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, which have been previously strained. Let it just simmer, but not boil, or the eggs will curdle; and after they are added to the sauce, it must be stirred without ceasing. This sauce is a general favourite, and is used for many made dishes. Time—I minute to simmer. Average cost^ 6d, SAUCE ARISTOCBATIQUE (a Store Sauce). 510. iNGiiEDiENTS.—Grreen walnuts. To every pint of juice, 1 lb. -of anchovies, 1 drachm of cloves, 1 drachm of mace, 1 drachm of Jamaica ginger bruised, 8 shalots. To every pint of the boiled liquor, k pint of vinegar, i pint of port wine, 2 tablespoonfuls of soy. 3Iode.—Pound, the walnuts in a mortar, squeeze out the juice through a strainer, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear juice, and to every pint of it, add anchovies, spices, and cloves in the above proportion. Boil all these together till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the juice again, put in the shalots (8 to every pint), and