BREAD, BrSCUITS, AND CAKES. 845 muffin will not be warmed through. When done, divide them by pulling them open; butter them slightly on both sides, put them together again, and cut them into halves : when sufficient are toasted and buttered, pile them on a very hot dish, and send them very quickly to table. Time.—From 20 minutes to ^ hour to bake them. Sufficient.—Alhvi 1 muffin to each person. CRUMPETS. 1728. These are made in the same manner as muffins; only, in making the mixture, let it be more like batter than dough. Let it rise for about ^ hour; pour it into iron rings, which should be ready on a hot-plate; bake them, and when one side appears done, turn them quickly on the other. To toast them^ have ready a very cto^ fire; put the crumpet on a toasting-fork, and hold it before the fire, not too close, until it is nicely brown on one side, but do not allow it to blacken. Turn it, and brown the other side; then spread it with good butter, cut it in half, and, when all are done, pile them on a hot dish, and send them quickly to table. Muffins and crumpets should always be served on separate dishes, and both toasted and served as expeditiously as possible. Ti7ne.—From 10 to 15 minutes to bake them. tSufficient,—Allow 2 crumpets to each person. PLAIN BUNS. 1729. Ingredients.—To every 2 lbs. of flour allow 6 oz. of moist sugar, i gill of yeast, i pint of milk, i lb. of butter, warm milk. Mode.—FxLt the flour into a basin, mix the sugar well with it, make a hole in the centre, and stir in the yeast a,nd milk (which should be lukewarm), with enough of the flour to make it the thickness of cream. Cover the basin over with a cloth, and let the sponge rise in a warm place, which will be accomplished in about H hour. Melt the butter, but do not allow it to oil; stir it into the other ingredients, with enough warm milk to make the whole into a soft dough; then mould it into buns about the size of an egg; lay them in rows quite 3 inches apart; set them again in a warm place, until they have risen to double their size; then put them into a good brisk oven, and just before they are done, wash them over with a little milk. From 15 to 20 minutes will be required to bake them nicely. These buns may be varied by adding a few currants, candied peel, or caraway seeds to the other