339 PORK. Tnne.—Reit'hev more than 2 hours. Average cost, Qd. per lb* Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonahle from October to March. TO MELT LABD. 825. Melt the inner fat of the pig, by putting it in a stone jar, and placing this in a saucepan of boiling water, previously stripping ofi: the skin. Let it simmer gently over a bright fire, and as it melts, pour it carefully from the sediment. Put it into small jars or bladders for use, and keep it in a cool place. The flead or inside fat of the pig, before it is melted, makes exceedingly light crust, and is particularly wholesome. It may be preserved a length of time by salting it well, and occasionally changing the brine. When wanted for use, wash and wipe it, and it will answer for making into paste as well as fresh lard. Average cost, lOd, per lb. BOILED LEa OF POBSI, 826. IiSTGEEDiENTS.—Leg of pork; salt. Mode,—For boiling, choose a small, compact, weli-filled leg, and rub it well with salt; let it remain in pickle for a week or ten days, turniug and rubbing it every day. An hour before dressing it, put it into cold water for an hour, which improves the colour. If the pork is purchased ready salted, ascertain how long the meat has been in pickle, and soak it accordingly. Put it into a boiling-pot, with suffi- cient cold water to cover it; let it gradually come to a boil, and remove the scum as it rises. Simmer it very gently until tender, and do not allow it to boil fast, or the knuckle will fall to pieces before the middle of the leg is done. Carrots, turnips, or parsnips may be boiled with the pork, some of which should be laid round the dish as a garnish, and a well-made pease-pudding is an indispensable accompaniment. Time.—K leg of pork weighing 8 lbs., 3 hours after the water boils, and to be simmered very gently. Average cost, 9d, per lb. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasonahle from September to March. Note.—The liquor in which a leg of pork has been boiled, makes excellent pea-soup. Antiquity the Hog.—The hog has survived changes which have swept muUifcudes of pachydermatous animals from the surface of our eai*th. It still presents the samo characteristics, both physical and moral, which the earliest writers, whether sacred or pro- fane, have faithfully delineated. Although the domestic has been more or less modified by long culture, yet the wild species remains unaltered, insomuch that the fossil relics may be ideatilied with the bones of their existing descendants.