VEGETABLES. 563 This vegetable, dressed as above, is a favourite accompaniment of roast pork, sausages, &c. &c. Time.—About f hour. Average costy 6d. to Sd. per buncli of 18. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable.—Young carrots from April to June, old ones at any- time. Constituents of the Caeeot,—These are erystallizable and uucrystallizable sugar, a little starcli, extractive, gluten, albumen, volatile oil, vegetable jelly, or pectin, saline matter, malic acid, and a peculiar erystallizable ruby-red neuter principle, v/ithout odour or taste, called carotin. This vegetable jelly, or pectin, so named from its singular property of gelatinizing, is considered by some as another form of gum or mucilage, combined with vegetable acid. It exists more or less in all vegetables, and is especially abundant in those roots and fruits from vrhich jellies are prepared. STEWED CARROTS. 1102. Ii^GEEDiENTS.—7 or 8 large carrots, 1 teacupful of broth, pepper and salt to taste, i teacupful of cream, thickening of butter and flour. Mode,—Scrape the carrots nicely; half-boil, and slice them into a stewpan; add the broth, pepper and salt, and cream; simmer till tender, and be careful the carrots are not broken. A few minutes before serving, mix a little flour with about 1 oz. of butter; thicken the gravy with this; let it just boil up, and serve. Teme.—About | hour to parboil the carrots, about 20 minutes to cook them after they are sliced. I Average cost, Gd. to 8c?. per bunch, of 18. I Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. I Seasonable.—Young carrots from April to June, old ones at any I time. Nutritive Properties of the Carrot.—Sir H, Davy ascertained the nutritive matter of the carrot to amount to ninety-eight parts in one thousand; of which ninety- live are sugar and three are starch. It is used in winter and spring in the dairy to give colour and ilavour to butter; and it is excellent in stev/s, haricots, soups, and, when boiled whole, with salt beef. In the distilleiy, owing to the great proportion of sugar in its composition, it yields more spirit than the potato. The usual quantity is twelve gallons per ton. ' SLICED CARROTS. ! (Entremets, or to be served with the Second Course, as a Side-dish.) 1103. Ingeedients.—5 or 6 large carrots, a large lump of sugar, 1 pint of weak stock, 3 oz. of fresh butter, salt to taste. Mode.—Scrape and wash the carrots, cut them into slices of an equal size, and boil them in salt and water, until half done; drain them well, put them into a stewpan. with the sugar and stock, and I let them boil over a brisk fire. When reduced to a glaze, add the j 2 o 2 1 I