MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 474 Average costy As. dd. Svffi.cient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable at any time The Serai Ta-ooit, on Eowls of the Sultan-.—This fowl is the siz9 of our English PolandSj and is the latest species introduced to England. They have a white and flowing plumage, a full-sized, compact Poland tuft on the head, are muffed, have a full flowing tail, short legs well feathered, and Ave toes upon each foot. Their comb consists merely of two httle points, and their wattles are very small: their colour is that of a pure white. In January, 1854, they arrived in this country from Constantinople; and they take their name from sarai^ the Turkish word for sultan's palace, and ta-ooTc, the Turkish for fowl. They are thus called the " fowls of the sultan," a name which has the twofold advantage of being the nearest to be found to that by which they have been known in their own country, and of designating the country whence they come. Their habits are described as being generally brisk and happy-tempered, but not so easily kept in as Coehin-Chinas. They are excellent layers; but they are non-sitters and small eaters : their eggs are large and white. Brahmas or Cochins v/iU clear the crop of a grass-run long before they will, and, with scattered food^ they soon satisfy themselves and walk away. POULET AUX CESSSOlSrS. 1 964. IifGEEDiENTS. —A fowl, a large bunch of water-cresses, ^ tablespoonfuls of vinegar, J pint of gravy. Iflcde.—Truss and roast a fowl by recipe iN'o. 952, taking care that it is nicely frothed and brown. "\Yash and dry the water-cresses, pick them nicely, and arrange them in a flat layer on a dislu Sprinkle over a little salt and the above proportion of vinegar ; place over these the fowl, and pour over it the grav5^ A little gravy should be served in a tureen. When not liked, the vinegar may be omitted. Time.—From i to 1 hour, according to size. Average costy in full season, 25. %d. each. Bnfficient for 3 or 4 persons. Seasonable at any time. EOAST FOWL, Stuffed. 965. Ingredients.—A large fowl, forcemeat Ko. 417, a little flour. Jibt/g.—Select a large plump fowl, fill the breast with forcemeat, made by recipe '^0. 417, truss it firmly, the same as for a plain roast fowl, dredge it with flour, and put it down to a bright fire. Eoast it for nearly or quite an hour, should it be very large ; remove the skewers, and serve v/ith a good brown gravy and a tureen of bread sauce.