REARING, ETC., OF CHILDREN. 1053 time to fulfil its several changes. The mode of vaccination is either to insert the matter, or lymph, taken from a healthy child, under the cuticle in several places on both arms, or, which is still better, to make three slight scratches, or abrasions, with a lancet on one arm in this manner, ^/'^^ and work into tlio Irritated parts the lymph, allowing the arm to dry thoroughly before putting- down the infant's sleeve ; by this means absorption is insured, and the unne- cessary pain of several pustules on both arms avoided. No apparent change is observable by the eye for several days; indeed, not till the fourth, in many cases, is there any evidence of a vesicle ; about the fifth day, however, a pink areola, or circle, is observed round one or all of the places, surrounding a small pearly vesicle or bladder. This goes on deepening in hue till the seventh or eighth day, when the vesicle is about an inch in diameter, with a depressed centre ; on the ninth the edges are elevated, and the surrounding part hard and inflamed. The disease is now at its height, and the pustule should be opened, if not for the purpose of vaccinating other children, to allow the escape of the lymph, and subdue the inflammatory action. After the twelfth day the centro is covered by a brown scab, and the colour of the swelling becomes darker, gradually declining in hardness and colour till the twentieth, when the scab falls off, leaving a small pit, or cicatrix, to mark the seat of the disease, and for life prove a certificate of successful vaccination. 2546. In some children the inflammation and swelling of the arm is excessive,, and extremely painful, and the fever, about the ninth or tenth day, very high ; the pustule, therefore, at that time, should sometimes be opened, the arm fomented every two hours wdth a warm bread poultice, and an aperient powder given to the infant. MEASLES AND SCAKLET FEVEK, WITH THE TBEATMENT OF BOTH. Measles. 2547. This much-dreaded disease, which forms the next subject in our series^ of infantine diseases, and which entails more evils on the health of childhood, than any other description of physical suffering to which that age of life is subject, may be considered more an affection of the venous circulation, tending to general and local congestion, attended with a diseased condition of; the blood, than either as a fever or an inflammation ; and though generally classed before or after scarlet fever, is, in its pathology and treatment, irre- spective of its .after-consequences, as distinct and opposite as one disease can well be from another. 2548. As we have already observed, measles are always characterized by tho running at the nose and eyes, and great oppression of breathing ; so, in the mode of treataient, two objects are to be held especially in view; first, to