897 INVALID COOKERY. Tvne.—i to f hour. Average cost, 6cl. per pint. Sufficient.—'Mlovi 1 lb. of meat for a pint of good beef tea. Miss Nightingale says, one of the most common errors among nurses, with respect to sick diet, is the belief that beef tea is the most nutritive of all articles. She says, " Just try and boil down a lb. of beef into beef tea; evaporate your beef tea, and see what is left of your beef; you will find that there is barely a teaspoonful of solid nouinshment to ^ pint of water in beef tea. Nevertheless, there is a certain reparative quality in it,—we do not know what,—as there is in tea; but it may be safely given in almost any inflam- matory disease, and is as little to Ise depended upon with the healthy or convalescent, where much nourishment is required." SAVOUBir BEEF TEA. {Soyer's Reci]}c.) 1859. Ingredients.—1 lb. of solid beef, 1 oz. of butter, 1 clove, 2 button onions or ^ a large one, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 quart of water. Mode,—Qwi the beef into very small dice; put it into a stewpan with the butter, clove, onion, and salt; stir the meat round over the fire for a few minutes, until it produces a thin gravy; then add the water, and let it simmer gently from 4 to | hour, skimming off every particle of fat. "When done, strain it through a sieve, and put it by in a cool place until required. The same, if wanted quite plain, is done by merely omitting the vegetables, salt, and clove; the butter cannot be objectionable, as it is taken out in skimming. Time.—\ to % hour. Average cost, ScL per pint. Sufficient.—Allow 1 lb. of beef to make 1 pint of good beef tea. Note.—The meat left from beef tea may bo boiled a little longer, and pounded, with spices, kc, for potting. It makes a very nice breakfast dish. Dk. Christison says that " every one will be struck with the readiness with which certain classes of patients will often take diluted meat juice, or beef tea repeatedly, when they refuse all other kinds of food." This is particularly remarkable in cases of gastric fever, in which, he says, little or nothing else besides beef tea, or diluted meat juice, has been taken for weeks, or even months; and yet a pint of beef tea contains scarcely i oz. of anything but water. The result is so striking, that he asks, *' What is its mode of action ? Not simple nutriment; I oz. of the most nutritive material cannot nearly replace the daily wear and tear of the tissue in any circumstances." Possibly, he says, it belongs to a new denomination of remedies. BAKED BEEF TEA. 1860. Ingredients.—1 lb. of fleshy beef, ll pint of water, j salt- spoonful of salt. 3Iode.—Cut the beef into small square pieces, after trimming ofi all the fat, and put it into a baking-jar, with the above proportion of water and salt; cover the jar well, place it in a warm, but not hot oven, and bake for 3 or 4 hours. When the oven is very fierce in the daytime, it is a good plan to put the jar in at night, and let it remain till the next morning, when the tea will be done. It should be strained, 3 M