THE COD. 118 MODEBN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. be salted down and served with egg sauce and parsnips. Cod, when _^^^^^^^7>_-:--. boiled quite fresh, is watery ; salting a little, renders it firmer. The Cod Tribe.—The Jugular, characterized by bony gills, and ventral fins before the pectoral ones, commences the second of the Linuaean orders of fishes, and is a numerous tribe, inhabiting only the depths of the ocean, and seldom visiting the fresh waters. They have a smooth head, and th gill membrane has seven rays. The body is oblongs and covered with deciduous scales. The fins ara all inclosed in skin, whilst their rays are unarmed. The ventral fins are slender, and terminate in g point. Their habits are gregarious, and they feed on smaller fish and other marins animals. COD'S HEAD AHD SHOUIiDEBS. 23a. Ingeedients.—Sufficient water to coyer the fish ; 5 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly, and rub a little salt oyer the thick part and inside of the fish, 1 or 2 hours before dressing it, as this very much improyes the flayour. Lay it in the fish-kettle, with sufiicient cold water to coyer it. Be yery particular not to pour the water on the fish, as it is liable to break it, and only keep it just simmering. If the water should boil away, add a little by pouring it in at the side of the kettle, and not on the fish. Add salt in the aboye proportion, and bring it gradually to a boil. Skim yery carefully, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it gently simmer till done. Take it out and drain it; serye on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut lemon, horseradish, the roe and liyer. {See Coloured Plate C.) Time.—According to size, f an hour, more or less. Average cost, from 3s. to 6s, Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable from November to March. Note.—Oyster sauce and plain melted butter should be served with this. To Choose Cod.—The cod should be chosen for the table when it is plump and round near the tail, when the hollow behind the head is deep^ and when the sides are undulated as if they were ribbed. The glutinous parts about the head lose their delicate flavour, after the fish has been twenty-four hours ■Dut of the v/ater. The great point by which the cod should be judged is the firmness of its flesh; and, although the cod is not firm when it is alive, its quality may be arrived at by pressing the finger into the flesh. If this rises immediately, the fish is good ; if not, it is stale. Another sign of its goodness iS;, if the fish, when it is cut, exhibits a bronze appearance, like the silver side of a round of beef. When this is the case, the flesh will be firm when cooked. Stiffness in a cod, or in any other fish, is a sure sign of freshness, though not always of quality. Sometimes, codfish, though exhibiting signs