640 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, Time—Zl horns. Average cost, lOd, Svfficient for 7 or 8 persons. Seasoiiahle at any time. black: or KED CUBBANT PUDDING. ig65. Ingredients.—1 quart of red or black currants, measured with the stalks, 5 lb. of moist sugar, suet crust No. 1215, or butter crust No. 1213. Mode.—Make, with | lb. of flour, either a suet crust or butter crust (the former is usually made); butter a basin, and line it with part of the crust; put in the currants, which should be stripped from the stalks, and sprinkle the sugar over them ; put the cover of the pudding; on; make the edges very secure, that the juice does not escape ; tie it down with a floured cloth, put it into boiling water, and boil from 2| to 3 hours. Boiled without a basin, allow i hour less. "We have allowed rather a large proportion of sugar; but we find fruit puddings are so much more juicy and palatable when?^'^?^ sweetened before they are boiled, besides being more economical. A few raspberries added to red-currant pudding are a very nice addition: about i pint would be sufficient for the above quantity of fruit. Fruit puddings are very delicious if, when they are turned out of the basin, the crust is browned with a salamander, or put into a very hot oven for a few minutes to colour it: this makes it crisp on the surface. Time.—2^ to 3 hours ; without a basin, 2 to 2l ^ hours. Average cost, in full season, Sd Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. SeasonaUe in June, July, and Angusc. CuEEAT^TS.—The utility of currants, reel, blade, or v^hMe, has long been established in domestic economy. The juice of the red species, if boiled with an equal weight of loaf sugar, forms an agreeable substance called currant jelly, much employed in sauces, and very valuable in the cure of sore throats and colds. The French mix it with sugar and water, and thus form au agreeable beverage. The juice of currants is a valuable remedy in obstructions of the bowels ; and, in febrile comx)laints, it is useful on account of its readily quenching thirst, and for its cooling effect on the stomach, White and flesh-coloured cur- rants have, with the exception of the fullness of flavour, in every resjpect, the same qualities as the red species. Both white CURRANTS. and red currants are pleasant additions to the dessert, but the black variety is mostly used for culinary and medicinal purposes, especially in the form of jelly for quinsies. The leaves of the black currant make a pleasant'tea, BED-CUBBAHT AWD BASPDEBBY TABT. 1267. Ingredients.—1J pint of picked currants, k pint of rasp-, berries, 3 heaped tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, ^ lb. of short crust. ,