MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 710 jelly-bag may, of course, be made any size; but one of twelve or fourteen inches deep, and seven or eiglit across the mouth, will be sufneient for ordinary use. The form of a jelly-bag is the fool's cap. COW-HEEIj stock fob JELIilES {3Iore Economical than Calf's Feet.) 1412. IiTGEEDiEisTTS.—2 cow-lieels, 3 quarts of water. Jfbt/(?.—Procure 2 heels that have only been scalded, and not boiled; split them in two, and remove the fat between the claw^s; wash them well in warm water, and put them into a saucepan with the above proportion of cold water; bring it gradually to boil, remove all the scum as it rises, and simmer the heels gently from 7 to 8 hours, or until the liquor is reduced one-half; then strain it into a basin, mea- suring the quantity, and put it in a cool place. Clarify it in the same manner as calfs-feet stock ISTo. 1411, using, with the other ingredients, about I oz. of isinglass to each quart. This stock should be made the day before it is required for use. Two dozen shank-bones of mutton, boiled for 6 or 7 hours, yield a quart of strong firm stock. They should be put on in 2 quarts of water, which should be reduced one- half. Make this also the day before it is required. Time.—7 to 8 hours to boil the cow-heels, 6 to 7 hours to boil the shank-bones. j Average cost, from 4^?. to Qd. each. j Suficient—2 cow-heels should make 3 pints of stock. 1 Seasonable at any time. ISII'IGIiASS OB GELATIlSrE JELLT. {Sulstitutes for Calfs Feet.) 1413. Ii^GEEDiENTS.—3 OZ. of isiuglassor gelatine, 2 quarts of vrater. ■ Mode.—Put the isinglass or gelatine into a saucepan with the above proportion of cold water ; bring it quickly to boil, and let it boil very fast, until the liquor is reduced one-half. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and it will be ready for use. If not required very clear, it may be merely strained through a fine sieve, instead of being run through a bag. Rather more than ^ oz. of isinglass is about the proper quantity to use for a quart of strong calf's-feet stock, and rather more than 2 oz. for the same quantity of fruit juice. As isinglass varies so much in quality and strength, it is difficult to give the exact proportions. The larger the mould, the stifier should be the jelly ; and where there is no ice, more isinglass must be used than if the mixture were frozen. This forms a stock for all kinds of jellies, which may be flavoured in many ways, Time.—H hour.