EOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 1014 2506. This makes an admirable food, at once nutritious and strengthening. Wlien tops-and-bottoms or rusks are used, the quantity of the egg may be reduced, or altogether omitted. 2507. Semolina, or manna croup, being in little hard grains, like a fine millet-seed, must be boiled for some time, and the milk, sugar, and egg added to it on the fire, and boiled for a few minutes longer, and, when cold, used aa the other preparations. 2508. Many persons entertain a belief that cow's milk is hurtful to infants, and, consequently, refrain from giving it; but this is a very great mistake, for both sugar and milk should form a large portion of every meal an infant takes. TEETHINa AND CONVULSIONS. Fits, &c., the consequence of Dentition, and how to be treated.— The number and order of the Teeth, and manner in which they are cut.—First and Second Set. 2509. About three months after birth, the infant's troubles may be said to begin ; teeth commence forming in the gums, causing pain and irritation in the mouth, and which, but for the saliva it causes to flow so abundantl}?-, would be attended with very serious consequences. At the same time the mother frequently relaxes in the punctuality of the regimen imposed on her,, and, taking some unusual or different food, excites diarrhoja or irritation in her child's stomach, which not unfrequently results in a rash on the skiu, or slight febrile symptoms, which, if not subdued in their outset, superinduce some more serious form of infantine disease. But, as a general rule, the teeth are the primary cause of much of the child's sufferings, in consequence of the state of nervous and functional irritation into which the system is thrown by their formation and progress out of the jaw and through the gums. We propose beginning this branch of our subject with that most fertile source of an infant's suffering— Teething. 2510. That this subject may be better understood by the nurse and mother, and the reason of the constitutional disturbance that, to a greater or less degree, is experienced by all infants, may be made intelligible to those who have the care of children, we shall commence by giving a brief account of the formation, of the teeth, the age at which they appear in the mouth, and the order in which they pierce the gums. The organs of mastication in the adult consist of 32 distinct teeth, 16 in either jaw ; being, in fact, a double set. The teeth are divided into 4 incisors, 2 canine, 4 first and second grinders, and 6 molars ; but in childhood the complement or first set consists of only twenty, and these only make their appearance as the development of the frame indicates the