136 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. Mode,—Pick the fish carefully from the bones, mix with the other ingredients, and serve very hot. The quantities may be varied according to the amount of fish used. Time,—| hour after the rice is boiled. Average cost, 6d., exclusive of the fish. TO BOIIi LOBSTEBS. 270. Ikgredients.—J lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Jfoc7^.—Buy the lobsters alive, and choose those that are heavy and full of motion, which is an indication of their freshness. When the shell is incrusted, it is a sign they are old : medium-sized lobsters are the best. Have ready a stewpan of boiling water, salted in the above proportion; put in the lobster, and keep it boiling quickly from 20 minutes to | hour, according to its size, and do not forget to skim well. If it boils too long, the meat becomes thready, and if not done enough, the spawn is not red : this must be obviated by great attention. Rub the shell over with a little butter or sweet oil, which wipe off again. Time.—^mdll lobster, 20 minutes to § hour; large ditto, J to f hour. Average cost, medium size, Is. 6d. to 2s. 6c?. Seasonable all the year, but best from March to October. To Choose Lobsters.—This shell-fish, if it has been cooked alive, as it ought to have been, will have a stiffness in the tail, which, if gently raised, will return with a spring. Care, however, must be taken in thus proving it; for if the tail is pulled straight out, it will not return; when the fish might be pro- nounced inferior, which, in reality, may not be the case. In order to be good, lobsters should be weighty for their bulk; if light, they will be watery ; and those of the medium size, are always the best. Small-sized lobsters are cheap- est^ and answer very well for sauce. In boiling lobsters, the appearance of the shell will be much improved by rubbing over it a little butter or salad-oil on being immediately taken from the pot. Tns LonsTER.—This is one of the crab tribe, and is found on most of the rocky coasts of Great Britain. Some are caught with the hand, but the larger number in pots, which serve all the purposes of a trap, being made of osiers, and baited with garbage. Theyare shaped like a wire mousetrap ; so that when the lobsters once enter them, they cannot get out again. They are fastened to a cord and sunk in the sea, and their place marked by a buoy. The fish is very prolific, and deposits its eggs in the sand, where they are soon hatched. On the coast or Norway, they are very abundant, and it is from there that the English metropolis is mostly supplied. They are rather indigestible, and, as a food, not so nutritive as they are generally supposed to be. HOT LOBSTER. 271. Inghedients.—1 lobster, 2 oz. of butter, grated nutmeg; salt, pepper, and pounded mace, to taste; bread crumbs, 2 eggs.