180 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, APPLE SAUCE FOB GEESE, PORK, &c. 363. Ingredients.—6 good-sized apples, sifted sugar to taste, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, water. 3fode.—Pare, core, and quarter the apples, and throw them into cold water to preserve their whiteness. Put them in a saucepan, with sufficient water to moisten them, and boil till soft enough to pulp. Beat them up, adding sugar to taste, and a small piece of butter This quantity is sufficient for a good-sized tureen. Tiine.—According to the apples, about f hour. Average cost, 4(7. Sufficient^ this quantity, for a goose or couple of ducks. BROWJSr APPLE SAUCE. 3^4. Ingredients.—6 good-sized apples, i pint of brown gravy, cayenne to taste. Mode, Put the gravy in a stewpan, and add the apples, after having pared, cored, and quartered them. Let them simmer gently till tender; beat them to a pulp, and season v;ith cayenne. This sauce is pre- ferred by many to the preceding. Time.—According to the apples, about J hour. Average cost, 6d, ASPARAGUS SAUCE. 3S5. Ingredients.—1 bunch of green asparagus, salt, 1 oz. of fresh butter, 1 small bunch of parsley, 3 or 4 green onions, 1 large lump of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of sauce tournee. Mode.—Break the asparagus in the tender part, wash well, and put them into boiling salt and water to render them green. When they are tender, take them out, and put them into cold water; drain them on a cloth till all moisture is absorbed from them. Put the butter in a stewpan, with the parsley and onions; lay in the asparagus, and fry the whole over a sharp fire for 5 minutes. Add salt, the sugar and sauce tournee, and simmer for another 5 minutes. Rub all through a tammy, and if not a very good colour, use a little spinach green. This sauce should be rather sweet. Time.—xiltogether 40 minutes. Average cost for this quantity, Is. id, ASPIC, or ORInTAMEIMTAL SAVOURY JELLY". 3S0. Ingredients.—4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, 1 cow-heel, 3 or 4 slices of ham, any poultry trimmings, 2 carrots, 1 onion, 1 faggot of