1079 THE DOCTOB. unmarried women. They happen much less often in married women : and even (in some rare cases indeed) in men. Young women, who are subject to these fits, are apt to think that they are suffering from " all the ills that flesh is heir toand the false symptoms of disease which they show are so like the true ones, that it is often exceedingly difficult to detect the difference. The fits themselves are mostly preceded by great depression of spirits, shed- ding of tears, sickness, palpitation of the heart, &c. A pain, as if a nail were being driven in, is also often felt at one particular part of the head. In almost all cases, when a fit is coming on, pain is felt on the left side. This pain rises gradually until it reaches the throat, aud then gives the patient a sensation as if she had a pellet there, which prevents her from breathing pro- perly, and, in fact, seems to threaten actual suffocation. The patient now generally becomes insensible, and faints; the body is thrown about in ail directions, froth issues from the mouth, incoherent expressions are uttered, and fits of laughter, crying, or screaming, take place. When the fit is going ofi", the patient mostly cries bitterly, sometimes knowing all, and at others nothing, of what has taken place, and feeling general soreness all over the body. Treatment during the fit. Place the body in the same position as for simple fainting, and treat, in other respects, as directed in the article on Epilepsy. Alivays loell loosen thepatienfs stays; and, when she is recovering, and able to swallow, give 20 drops of sal volatile in a little water. The after-treatment of these cases is very various. If the j)atient is of a strong constitution, she should live on i^lain diet, take plenty of exercise, and take occasional doses of castor oil, or an aperient mixture, such as that described as No. 1," in previous numbers. If, as is mostly the case, the patient is weak and delicate, she will require a different mode of treatment altogether. Good nourishing diet, gentle exercise, cold baths, occasionally a dose of No. 3 myrrh and aloes pills at night, and a dose of compound iron pills twice a day. [As to the myrrh and aloes pills (No. 8), 10 grains made into two pills arc a dose for a full-grown person. Of the compound iron pills (No. 4), the dose for a full grown person is also 10 grains, made into two pills.] In ever}-- case, amusing the mind, and avoiding all causes of over-excitement, are of great service in bringing about a permanent cure. 2644. Liver Complaint and Spasms.—A very obliging correspondent recommends the following, from personal experience :—Take 4 oz. of dried dandelion root, 1 oz. of the best ginger, ^ oz. of Columba root; bruise and boil all together in 3 pints of water till it is reduced to a quart: strain, and take a wine-glassful every four hours. Our correspondent says it is a''safe and simple medicine for both liver complaint and spasms." 2645. Lumbago.—A "new and successful mode" of treating lumbago, advocated by Dr. Day, is a form of counter-irritation, said to have been intro- duced into this country by the late Sir Anthony Carlisle, and which consists in the instantaneous application of a flat iron button, gently heated in a spirit- lamp, to the skin. Dr. Corrigan published, about three years ago, an account