963 DUTIES or THE EUTLER. second course, which he places on the table, removing the covers as before, ond again taking his place at the sideboard. 2159. At dessert, the slips being removed, the butler receives the dessert from the other servants, and arranges it on the table, with plates and glasses, and then takes his place behind his master's chair to hand the wines and ices, while the footman stands behind his mistress for the same purpose, the other attendants leaving the room. Where the old-fashioned practice of having the dessert on the polished table, without any cloth, is still adhered to, the butler should rub off any marks made by the hot dishes before arranging the dessert. 2160. Before dinner, he has satisfied himself that the lamps, candles, or gas-burners are in perfect order, if not lighted, which will usually be the case. Having seiwed every one with their share of the dessert, put the fires in order (when these are used), and seen the lights are all right, at a signal from hig master, he and the footman leave the room. 2i6t. He now proceeds to the drawing-room, arranges the fireplace, and sees to the lights ; he then returns to his pantry, prepared to answer the bell, and attend to the company, while the footman is clearing away and cleaning the plate and glasses. 2162. At tea he again attends. At bedtime he appears with the candles; he locks up the plate, secures doors and windows, and sees that all the fires are safe. 2163. In addition to these duties, the butler, where only one footman is kept, will be required to perform some of the duties of the valet, to pay bills, and superintend the other servants. But the real duties of the butler are in the wine-cellar; there he should be competent to advise his master as to the price and quality of the wine to be laid in ; **fine," bottle, cork, and seal it, and place it in the binns. Brewing, racking, and bottling malt liquors, belong to his oSice, as well as their distribution. These and other drinkables are brought from the cellar every day by his own hands, except where an under- i)utler is kept; and a careful entry-of every bottle used, entered in the cellar- book ; so that the book should alwaj^s show the contents of the cellar. 216-1. The office of butler is thus one of very great trust in a household. Hero, as -elsewhere, honesty is the best policy : the butler should make it his business to under- stand the proper treatment of the diffei'ent wines under his charj^e, vrhich he can easily do from the wine-merchant, and faithfully attend to it; his ov. n reputation will soon compensate for the absence of bribes from unprincipled wine-merchants, if he serves a fjenerous and hospitable master. ^Nothing spreads more rapidly in society than the reputation of a good wine-cellar, and all that is required is wines well chosen and well cared for j and this a Uttle knowledge, carefully applied, will soon supply. 2165. ^^'^^ butler, wo have said, has charge of the contents of the cellars, and it is his duty to keep them in a proper condition, to fine down wine in wood, bottle it off, and store it away in places suited to the sorts. Where Sq2