499 POULTRY. not to pierce the skin of tlie second joint: it is usual to leave the pinions unboned, in order to give more easily its natural form to the fowl when it is dressed. The merrythought and neck-bones may now easily be cut away, the back- and side-bones taken out without being divided, and the breastbone separated carefully from the flesh (which^ as the work progresses, must be turned back from the bones upon the fowl, until it is completely inside out). After the one remaining bone is removed, drav/ the wings and legs back to their proper form, and turn the fowl right side outwards. 993. A turkey is boned exactly in the same manner; but as it requires a very large proportion of forcemeat to fill it entirely, the legs and wings are sometimes drawn into the body, to diminish the expense of this. If very securely trussed, and sewn, the bird may be either boiled, or stewed in rich gravy, as well as roasted, after being boned and forced ; but it must be most gently cooled, or it may burst. ANOTHER MODE OP BONING A TUBKEY OB FOWL. {Miss AcIotCs Recipe.) 994- Cut through the skin down the centre of the back, and raise the flesh carefully on either side with the point of a sharp knife, until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. Till a little practice has been gained, it will perhaps be better to bone these joints before proceeding further ; but after they are once detached from it, the whole of the body may easily be separated from the flesh and taken out entire : only the neck-bones and merrythought will then remain to be removed. The bird thus prepared may either be restored to its original form, by filling the legs and wings with forcemeat, and the body wdth the livers of two or three fowls, mixed with alternate layers of parboiled tongue freed from the rind, fine sausage-meat, or veal forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest bacon, or aught else of good flavour, which will give a marbled appearance to the fowl when it is carved; and then be sewn up and trussed as usual; or the legs and wings may be drawn inside the body, and the bird being first flattened on a table, may be covered with sausage-meat, and the various other ingredients we have named, so placed that it shall be of equal thick- ness in every part; then tightly rolled, bound firmly together with a fillet of broad tape, wrapped in a thin pudding-cloth, closely tied at both ends, and dressed as follows :--Put it into a braising-pan, stew- pan, or thick iron saucepan, bright in the inside, and fitted as nearly as may be to its size; add all the chicken-bones, a bunch of sweet herbs, two carrots, two bay-leaves, a large blade of mace, twenty-four 2 K 2