LEGAL JIEMORANDA. liOl would be valueless when it v/as for a lease, unless witnessed^ and given under hand and seal. The last statute, 8 & 9 Vict. c. lOG, under which these pre- cautions became necessary, has led to serious difficulties. The judges," saya Lord St. Leonards, " feel the difficulty of holding a lease in writing, but not by deed, to be altogether void, and consequently decided, that although such a lease is void under the statute, yet it so far regulates the holding, that it creates a tenancy from year to year, terminable by half a year's notice ; and if the tenure endure for the term attempted to be created by the void lease, the tenant may be evicted at the end of the term without any notice to quit." An agreement for a lease not by deed has been construed to be a lease for a term of years, and consequently void imder the statute; '^and yet," says Lord St. Leonards, " a court of equity has held that it may be specifically enforced as an agreement upon the terms stated." The law on this point is one of glorious uncertainty; in making any such agreement, therefore, we should be careful to express that it is an agreement, and not a lease ; and that it is witnessed and under seal. 2705. Agreements.—It is usual, where the lease is a repairing one, to agree for a lease to be granted on completion of repairs according to specifica- tion. This agreement should contain the names and designation of the par- ties, a description of the property, and the term of the intended lease, and all the covenants which are to be inserted, as no verbal agreement can be made to a written agreement. It should also declare that the instrument is an agree- ment for a lease, and not the lease itself. The points to be settled in such an agreement are, the rent, term, and especially covenants for insuring and rebuilding in the event of a fire ; and if it is intended that the lessor's consent is to be obtained before assigning or underleasing, a covenant to that effect is required in the agreement. In building-leases, usually granted for 99 years,, the tenant is to insure the property ; and even where the agreement is silent on that point, the law decides it so. It is otherwise with ordinary tenements, when the tenant pays a full, or what the law terms rack-rent; the landlord is^ then to insure, unless it is otherwise arranged by the agreement, 2706. It is important for lessee, and lessor also, that the latter does not exceed his powers. A lease granted by a tenant for life before he is properly in possession, is void in law; for, although a court of equity, according to Lord St. Leonards, will, ^'by force of its own jurisdiction, support a hond fide lease, granted under a power which is merely erroneous inform or ceremonies," and the 12 & 13 Vict. c. 26, and 13 & 14 Vict. c. 19, compel a new lease to be granted with the necessary variations, while the lessor has no power to compel him to accept such a lease, except when the person in remainder is competent and willing to confirm the original lease without variations, yet all these difficulties involve both delay, costs, and anxieties. 2707. In husbandry leases, a covenant to cultivate the land in a husbandlike manner, and according to the custom of the district, is always implied ; but