MODEEN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 580 BOILED GKEEN PEAS. 1133. Ingredients.—Green peas; to each i gallon of water allow 1 S7nall teaspoonful of moist sugar, 1 lieaped tablespoonful of salt. Mode.—This delicious vegetable, to be eaten in perfection, should be young, and not gathered or shelled long before it is dressed. Shell the peas, wash them well in cold water, and drain them; then put them into a saucepan with plenty of fast-hoilmg water, to which salt and moist sugar have been added in the above proportion; let them boil quickly over a brisk fire, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered, and be careful that the smoke does not draw in. When tender, pour them into a colander; put them into a hot vegetable-dish, and quite in the centre of the peas place a piece of butter, the size of a walnut. Many cooks boil a small bunch of mint with the peas, or garnish them wdth it, by boiling a few sprigs in a saucepan by themselves. Should the peas be very old, and difficult to boil a good colour, a very tiny piece of soda may be thrown in the water previous to putting them in; but this must be very sparingly used, as it causes the peas, when boiled, to have a smashed and broken appearance. With young peas, there is not the slightest occasion to use it. Time.—Young peas, 10 to 15 minutes; the large sorts, such as marrowfats, &c., 18 to 24 minutes ; old peas, i hour. Average cost, when cheapest, Q>d, per peck; when first in season, Is, to Is. Qd, per peck. Sufficient.—Al\o\Y 1 peck of unshelled peas for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from June to the end of August. Origin" op the Pea.—All the varieties of garden peas which are cultivated have originated from the Pisum sativum, a native of the south of Europe ; and field peas are varieties of Fisum arvense. The Evei'lasting Pea is LatTiyriis latifolius, an old favourite in flower-gardens. It is said to yield an abundance of honey to bees, which are remark- ably fond of it. In this country the pea has been grown from time immemorial; but its culture seems to have diminished since the more general introduction of herbage, plants, and roots, G-BEBN PEAS A LA FRAlSrCAISE. 1134. Ingeedients.—2 quarts of green peas, 3 oz. of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley, 6 green onions, flour, a small lump of sugar, 4 teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of flour. Jfb(7e.—Shell sufficient fresh-gathered peas to fill 2 quarts; put them into cold water, with the above proportion of butter, and stir them about until they are well covered with the butter; drain them in a colander, and put them in a stewpan, with the parsley and onions; dredge over them a little flour, stir the peas well, and moisten them with boiling water; boil them quickly over a large fire for 20 minutes, or until there is no liquor remaining. Dip a ,