MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 522 II. {A QuicJcer and more Economical Way.) 1032. Ingeedients.—1 hare, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 onions, each stuck with 3 cloves, 6 whole allspice, i teaspoonful of black pepper, a strip of lemon-peel, thickening of butter and flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, | pint of port wine. Mode,—"Wash the hare nicely, cut it up into joints (not too larg-e), and flour and brown them as in the preceding recipe ; then put them into a stewpan with the herbs, onions, cloves, allspice, pepper, and lemon-peel; cover with hot water, and when it boils, carefully remove all the scum, and let it simmer gently till tender, which will be in about If hour, or longer, should the hare be very old. Take out tho pieces of hare, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, add the ketchup and port wine, let it boil for about 10 minutes, strain it through a sieve over the hare, and serve. A few fried forcemeat balls should be added at the moment of serving, or instead of frying them, they may be stewed in the gravy, about 10 minutes before the hare is wanted for table. Do not omit to serve red-currant jelly | with it. j Time.—Altogether 2 hours. Average cost, 5s. 6d. \ Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. ; Seasonahle from September to the end of February. \ Note.—Should there be any left, rewarm it the next day by putting the j hare, &c. into a covered jar, and placing this jar in a saucepan of boiling water : this method prevents a great deal of waste. ^ BOAST liANDKAIL, OR COm^-CRAKE. 3033. IisrGKEDiENTS.—3 or 4 Mrds, butter, fried bread crumbs. <|| Jibt7<?.—Pluck and draw the birds, wipe them inside and out with damp cloths, and truss them in the following manner:—Bring the head round under the wing, and the thighs close to the sides; pass a skewer through them and the body, and keep the legs straight. Eoast them before a clear fire, keep them well basted, and serve on fried bread crumbs, with a tureen of brown gravy. "When : liked, bread-sauce may also be sent to table with them. Time.—12 to 20 minutes. Average cost^—Seldom bought* Sufficient.—KWow 4- for a disli. Seasonahle from August 12th to the middle of September.