155 FISH. BOILED SKATE. 314. IngeediejS'TS.—:i lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode,—Cleanse and skin the skate, lay it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient water to cover it, salted in the above proportion. Let it simmer very gently till, done ; then dish it on a hot napkin, and serve with shrimp, lobster, or caper sauce. Time.—According to size, from l to 1 hour. Average cost^ id per lb. Seasonable from August to April. CBIMPED SKATE. 315. Ingeecients.—J lb. of salt to each gallon of water. Mode.—Clean, skin, and cut the fish into slices, which roll and tie round with string. Have ready some water highly salted, put in the fish, and boil till it is done. Drain well, remove the string, dish on a hot napkin, and serve with the same sauces as above. Skate should never be eaten out of season, as it is liable to produce diarrhoea and other diseases. It may be dished without a napkin, and the sauce poured over. Time.—About 20 minutes. Average cost^ Ad. per lb. Seasonable from August to April. To CHOOSE Skate.—This fish should be chosen for its firmness^ breadth^ and thickness, and should have a creamy appearance. When crimped, it should not be kept longer than a day or two, as all kinds of crimped fish soon become sour. The Skate.—This is one of the raj tribe, and ^ is extremely abundant and cheap in the fishing towns of England. The flesh is white, thick, and nourishing; but, we suppose, from its being so plentiful, it is esteemed less than it ought to be on account of its nutritive properties, and the ease with which it is digested. It is much im- proved by crimping; in v^hich state it is usually sold in London. The Tiiohnback differs from the true skate by having largo spines in its back, of which the other is destitute. It is taken in great THOENBACK SKATE, abundance during the spring and summer months, but its llesh is not so good as it is in November. It is, in regard to quality, inferior to that of the true skate. SEATS V7ITH CAPEB SAUCE (a la Francaise) 316. Ingeediexts.—2 or 3 slices of skate, | pint of vinegar, 2 oz. of salt, i teaspoonful of pepper, 1 sliced onion, a small bunch of parsle^^ 2 bay-leaves, 2 or 3 sprigs of thyme, sufficient water to cover the fish. Mode.—Put in a fish-kettle all the above ingredients, and simmer the skate in them till tender. When it is done, skin it neatly, and