MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKEET. 66 Time.—2j hours. Average cost per quart. Is. Zd, Sufficient for 10 persons. immerse tliem in cold water, and wipe and wei^h them. Now cover them with good stock, and stew them gently for rather more than I of an hour, or until they break when touched with a fork; then drain, pound, and rub them through a fine sieve reversed ; add suf- ficient stock, mace, cayenne, and salt, and stir it often until it boils, and put in the cream. The stock in which the chestnuts are boiled can be used for the soup, when its sweetness is not objected to, or it may, in part, be added to it; and the rule is, that f lb. of chestnuts should be given to each quart of soup. Time.—Rather more than 1 hour. Average cost per quart. Is. 6d. Seasonable from October to February. jSiifficient for 4 persons. The CHESTinjT.—TMs fruit is said, by some, to have originally come from Sardis, in Lydia; and by others, from Castanea, a city of Thessaly, from which it takes its name. By the ancients it was much used as a food, and is still common in France and Italy, to which countries it is, by some, considered indigenous. In the southern part of the European continent, it is eaten both raw and roasted. The tree was intro- duced into Britain by the Eomans; but it only flourishes in the warmer parts of the island, the fruit rarely arriving at maturity in Scotland. It attains a great age, as well as an immense size. As a food, it is the least oily and most farinaceous of all the nuts, and, therefore, the easiest of digestion. The tree called the horse cJiesinut is very different, although its fruit very much resembles that of the other. Its *' nuts," though eaten by horses and some other animals, are unsuitable for human food. cocoA-nsruT soup. 125. Iis'aEEDiENTS.—6 oz. of grated cocoa-nut, 6 oz. of rice flour, 1 a teaspoonful of mace ; seasoning to taste of ca3^enne and salt; j of a pint of boiling cream, 3 quarts of medium stock No. 105. Mode.—Take the dark rind from the cocoa-nut, and grate it down small on a clean grater ; weigh it, and allow, for each quart of stock, 2 oz. of the cocoa-nut. Simmer it gently for 1 hour in the stock, which should then be strained closely from it, and thickened for table. Seasonable in Autumn. The Cocoa-N'tjt.—This is the fruit of one of the palms, than which it is questionable if there is any other species of tree marking, in itself, so abundantly the goodness of Providence, in making x^rovision for the wants of man. It grows v^nld in the Indian seas, and in the eastern parts of Asia; and thence it has been introduced into every part of the tropical regions. To the natives of those climates, its bark supplies the material for erecting their dwellings ; its leaves, the means of roofing them; and the leaf-stalks, a kind of gauze for covering their windows, or protecting the baby in the cradle. It is also made into lanterns, masks to screen the face from the heat CHESTNUT.