MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 768 a little is dropped in a basin of cold water: it is then sufficiently- boiled. Add a little lemon-juice and a few drops of essence of lemon, and let it stand for a minute or two. Have ready a marble slab or large disb, rubbed over with salad-oil; pour on it the sugar, and cut it into strips with a pair of scissors: these strips should then be twisted, and the barley-sugar stored away in a very dry place. It may be formed into lozenges or drops, by dropping the sugar in a very SIP.all quantity at a time on to the oiled slab or dish. Twie,—i hour. Average cost^ Id, Sufficient for 5 or 6 sticks. CABROT JAM TO IMITATE APRICOT PRESERVE. 1525. Ingeediei^ts.—Carrots; to every lb. of carrot pulp allow 1 lb. of pounded sugar, the grated rind of 1 lemon, the strained juice of 2, 6 chopped bitter almonds, 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. ilifocZ^.—Select young carrots; wash and scrape them clean, cut them into round pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, and let them simmer until perfectly soft; then beat them through a sieve. "Weigh the pulp, and to every lb. allow the above ingredients. Put the pulp into a preserving-pan with the sugar, and let this boil for 5 minutes, stirring and skimming all the time. When cold, add the lemon-rind and juice, almonds and brandy; mix those well with the jam ; then put it into pots, which must be well covered and kept in a dry place. The brandy may be omitted, but the preserve will then not keep : with the brandy it will remain good for months. Time.— Ahout | hour to boil the carrots; 5 minutes to simmer the pulp. Average costj Is. 2d. for 1 lb. of pulp, with the other ingredients in -proportion. Sufficient to fill 3 pots. Seasonalle from July to December. TO MAKE CHERRY BRANDY. 1526. Ingredients.—-Morella cherries, good brandy ; to every lb. of cherries allow 3 oz. of pounded sugar. ilfoc?e.—Have ready some glass bottles, which must be perfectly dry. Ascertain that the cherries are not too ripe and are freshly gathered, and cut off about half of the stalks. Put them into the bottles, with the above proportion of sugar to every lb. of fruit; strew this in between the cherries, and, when the bottles are nearly full, pour in sufficient brandy to reach just below the cork. A few peach or