MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 628 gradually, add the currants, and moisten with the cg-gs, vdiicli should be well beaten. When all the ingredients arc well stirred and mixed, butter a mould that will hold the mixture exactly, tie it down with a cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for 5 hours ; when turned out, strew some powdered sugar oyer it, and serve. Time.—Qt hours. Average cost^ Is. Gd, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. BAKED APKICOT PUDDIKQ. 1238. INGREDIENTS.—12 large apricots, f pint of bread crumbs, 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 glass of sherry. ilfoeZc—Make the milk boiling hot, and pour it on to the bread crumbs; when half cold, add the sugar, the well-whisked yolks of the eggs, and the sherry. Divide the apricots in half, scald them until they are soft, and break them up with a spoon, adding a few of the kernels, which should be well pounded in a mortar; then mix the fruit and other ingredients together, put a border of paste round the dish, fill with the mixture, and bake the pudding from i to f hour. Time.—-2" to I hour. Average costy in full season, Is. Qd, Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. ScasonaUe in August, September, and October. APHICOT TAUT. 1239. Ingredients.—12 or 14 apricots, sugar to taste, puff-paste or short crust. 3fode.—Break the apricots in half, take out the stones, and put them into a pie-dish, in the centre of which place a very small cup or jar, bottom uppermost; sweeten with good moist sugar, but add no water. Line the edge of the dish with paste, put on the cover, and ornament the pie in any of the usual modes. Bake from i to % hour, according to size; and if puff-paste is used, glaze it about 10 minutes before the pie is done, and put it into the oven again to set the glaze. Short crust merely requires a little sifted sugar sprinkled over it before being sent to table. Time.—I to % hour. Average cost, in full season, Is, Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable in August, September, and October ; green ones rather earlier. Ilote.—Green apricots make very good tarts^ but they slioiild be boiled with a little sugar and water before they are covered with the crust.