617 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. wash tlieir hands; the Scythians honoured the Danube; the Greeks and Ilomans erected altars to the fountains and rivers; and some of the architectural embellisliuieats executed for fountains in Greece were remarkable for their beauty and delicacy. The purity of the water was a great object of the care of the ancients; and we learn that the Athenians appointed four officers to keep watch and ward over the water in their city. These niea had to keep the fountains in order and clean the reservoirs, so that the Vr'ater might be preserved pure and limpid. Like oilicers Avere appointed in other Greek cities. SUET CHUST, for Pies or Puddings. 1215. Ingeedients.—To every lb. of flour allow 5 or 6 oz. of beef suet, ^ pint of water. Mode.—Free tlie suet from skin and shreds ; chop it extremely fine, and rub it well into the flour ; work the whole to a smooth paste with the above proportion of v/ater; roll it out, and it is ready for use. This crust is quite rich enough for ordinary purposes, but when a better one is desired, use from J to f lb. of suet to every lb. of flour. Some cooks, for rich crusts, pound the suet in a mortar, with a small quantity of butter. It should then be laid on the paste in small pieces, the same as for pufl'-crust, and will be found exceedingly nice for hot tarts. 5 oz. of suet to every lb. of flour v/ill make a very good crust; and even ^ lb. will answer very well for children, or vrhere the crust is wanted very plain. Average cost, 5d. per lb. PATE EEISEB, or rBElTCH CHUST, for Kaised Pies. 1216. Ingsedients.—To every lb. of flour allow i saltspoonful of salt, 2 eggs, ^ pint of water, 6 oz. of butter. ilfocfe.—Spread the flour, vrhich ^should be sifted and thoroughly dry, on the paste-board; make a hole in the centre, into which put the butter ; work it lightly into the flour, and v/hen q uite fine, add the salt; work the whole into a smooth paste v/ith the eggs (yolks and whites) and v/ater, and make it very firm. Enead the paste well, and let it be rather stiff, that the sides of the pie may be easily raised, and that they do not afterwards tumble or shrink. Average cost. Is, per lb. JS^ofe.—This paste may be very much enriched b}'- making it with equal quantities of flour and butter; but then it is not so easily raised as when made plainer. Water Supply ijt Rome.—ISTothing in Italy is more extraordinary than the remains of the ancient aqueducts. At first, the Eomans were contented with the water from the Tiber. Ancus Martins v/as the first to commence the building of aqueducts destined to convey the water of the fountain of Piconia from Tibur to Rome, a distance of some 33,000 paces. Appius Claudius continued the good v/ork, and to him is due the com- pletion of the celebrated Appian Way. In time, the gigantic v/aterways greatly multi- plied, and, by the reign of Nero, there were constructed nine principal aqueducts, the pipes of which were of bricks, baked tiles, stone, lead, or wood. According to the calcu- lation of Vigenerus, half a million hogsheads of water were conveyed into Rome every day, by upwards of 10,000 small pipes not one-third of an inch in diameter. The water was received in large closed basins, above w^hich rose splendid monuments : these basins