MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. BOILED PKENCH BEANS. 1090. Ikgrediej^ts.—To each i gallon of water allow 1 heaped tablespoonfiil of salt, a vertj small piece of soda. 3/o{7e.—This vegetable should always be eaten young, as, when allowed to grow too long, it tastes stringy and tough when cooked. Cut olF the heads and tails, and a thin strip on each side of the beans, to remove the strings. Then divide each bean into 4 or 6 pieces, ac- cording to size, cutting them lengthways in a slanting direction, and, as they are cut, put them into cold water, with a small quantity of salt dissolved in it. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, with salt and soda in the above proportion; put in the beans, keep them boiling quickly, with the lid uncovered, and be careful that they do not get smoked. When tender, scAKLET EUNNER. whlch may be ascertained by their sinking to the bottom of the saucepan, take them up, throw them into a colander; and when drained, dish and serve with plain melted butter. When very young, beans are sometimes served whole; when they are thus dressed, their colour and flavour are much better preserved ; but the more general way of dressing them is to cut them into thin strips. jr/?;?(?.—Yery young beans, 10 to 12 minutes; moderate size, 15 to 20 minutes, after the water boils. Average cost^ in full season, \s. 4.d. a peck; but, when forced, very expensive. Sufficient,—Allow i peck for 6 or 7 persons. Seasonable from the middle of July to the end of September; but may be had, forced, from February to the beginning of June. PRBNCH MODE OP COOKING PRENCH BEANS. 1091. Iis^GEEDiENTS.—A quart of French beans, 3 oz. of fresh butter, popper and salt to taste, the juice of i lemon. Mode.—Cut and boil the beans by the preceding recipe, and when tender, put them into a stewpan, and shake over the fire, to dry away the moisture from the beans. When quite dry and hot, add the butter, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; keep moving the stewpan, without using a spoon, as that would break the beans; and when the butter is melted, and all is thoroughly hot, serve. If the butter should not mix well, add a tablespoonful of gravy, and serve very quickly.