MUTTON, 351 Serve in a very hot dish, and garnish with croutons, or sippets of toasted bread. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, Is. 6d. Sufficient for 4 persons. /Seasonable at any time. TO DBESS A SHEEP'S HEAD. 742. Ingeedieitts.—1 sheep's head, sufficient water to cover it, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 2 or 3 parsnips, 3 onions, a small bunch of parsley, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 3 teaspoonfuls of salt, 3 lb. of Scotch oatmeal. 3fode.—Cle^irL the head well, and let it soak in warm water for 2 hours, to get rid of the blood; put it into a saucepan, with sufficient cold water to cover it, and when it boils, add the vegetables, peeled and sliced, and the remaining ingredients; before adding the oatmeal, mix it to a smooth batter with a little of the liquor. Keep stirring till it boils up; then shut the saucepan closely, and let it stew gently for 1^ or 2 hours. It may be thickened with rice or barley, but oatmeal is preferable. Time.—l^ or 2 hours. Average cost, 8d. each. Sufficient for 3 persons. Seasonable at any time. Singed Sheep's Head.—The village of Dudingston, which stands ''-mthin a mil© of Edinburgh town," was formerly celebrated for this ancient and homely Scottish dish. In the summer months, many opulent citizens used to resort to this place to solace themselves over singed sheep's heads, boiled or baked. The sheep fed upon the neigh- bouring hills were slaughtered at this village, and the carcases were sent to town; but the heads were left to be consumed in the place. "We are not aware whether the custom of eating sheep's heads at Dudingston is still kept up by the good folks of Edinburgh, TOAB-IKT-THE-HOLE (Cold Meat Cookery). 743. IKGEEDIENTS.--6 oz. of flour, 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, hutter, a few slices of cold mutton, pepper and salt to taste, 2 kidneys. Mode—Make a smooth batter of flour, milk, and eggs in the above proportion; butter a baking-dish, and pour in the batter. Into this place a few slices of cold mutton, previously well seasoned, and the kidneys, which should be cut into rather small pieces; bake about 1 hour, or rather longer, and send it to table in the dish it was baked in. Oysters or mushrooms may be substituted for the kidneys, and will be found exceedingly good. T/me.—Eather more than 1 hour. Average cost, exclusive of the cold meat, 8d. Seasonable at any time.