MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, 712 to leave the sediment, and to remove all the fat from the surface. Put^ it into a saucepan, cold, without clarifying it; add the remaining ingre- dients, and stir them well together be- fore the saucepan is placed on the lire. Then simmer the mixture gently for i hour, hut do not stir it after it begins to tvarm. Throw in a teacupful of cold Tater, boil for another 5 minutes, and keep the saucepan covered by the side of the fire for about i hour, but do not let it boil again. In simmering, the head or scum may be carefully removed as it rises ; but particular attention must be given to the jelly, that it be not stirred in the slightest degree after it is heated. The isinglass should be added when the jelly begins to boil: this assists to clear it, and makes it firmer for turning out. Wring out a jelly-bag in hot water; fasten it on to a stand, or the back of a chair ; place it near the fire with a basin underneath it, and run the jelly through it. Should it not be perfectly clear the first time, repeat the process until the desired brilliancy is obtained. Soak the moulds in water, drain them for half a second, pour in the jelly, and put it in a cool place to set. If ice is at hand, surround the moulds with it, and the jelly will set sooner, and be firmer when turned out. In summer it is necessary to have ice in which to put the moulds, or the cook will be, very likely, disappointed, by her jellies being in too liquid a state to turn out properly, unless a great deal of isinglass is used. When wanted for table, dip the moulds in hot water for a minute, wipe the outside with a cloth, lay a dish on the top of the mould, turn it quickly over, and the jelly should slip out easily. It is sometimes served broken into square lumps, and piled high in glasses. Earthenware moulds are preferable to those of pewter or tin, for red jellies, the colour and trans- parency of the composition being often spoiled by using the latter. To make this jelly more economically, raisin wine may be substi- tuted for the sherry and brandy, and the stock made from cow-heels, instead of calf s feet. Tijne.~20 minutes to simmer the jelly, ^ hour to stand covered. Average cost, reckoning the feet at 6d, each, 3s. 6d. Sufficient to fill two ij-pint moulds. Seasonable at any time. Noie.—As lemon-juice^ unless carefullj'- strained, is liable to make the jelly muddy, see that it is clear before it is added to the other ingredients. Omifc the brandy when the flavour is objected to.