MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. €18 supplied other subterranean conduits, connected with various quarters of the city, and these conveyed water to small reservoirs furnished with taps for the exclusive use of certain streets. The water which was not drinkable ran out, by means of large pipes, into extensive inclosures, where it served to water cattle. At these places the people washed their linen; and here, too, was a supply of the necessary element in case of fire. COMMOlsr CEUST FOR BAISED PIES. 1217. IiTGEEDiEN-TS.—To every lb. of flour allow ^pint of water, li oz. of butter, 1| oz. of lard, i saltspoonful of salt. Mode.—Tnt into a saucepan the water; when it boils, add tlie butter and lard; and when these are melted, make a hole in the middle of the flour; pour in the water gradually; beat it well with a wooden spoon, and be particular in not making the paste too soft. "When it is well mixed, knead it with the hands until quite stifl", dredging a little flour over the paste and board, to prevent them from sticking. When it is well kneaded, place it before the fire, with a cloth covered over it, for a few minutes; it will then be more easily worked into shape. This paste does not taste so nicely as the preceding one, but is worked with greater facility, and answers just as well for raised pies, for the crust is seldom eaten. Average cost, 5d. per lb. LABD OR FliSAD CIII7ST. 1218. Iis-GEEDiENTS.—To every lb. of flour allow 41b. of lardor flead^ 1 pint of water, i saltspoonful of salt. JfoJe.—Clear the flead free from skin, and slice it into thin flakes; rub it into the flour, add the salt, and work the whole into a smooth paste, with the above proportion of water; fold the paste over two or three times, beat it well with the rolling-pin, roil it out, and it will be ready for use. The crust made from this will be found extremely light, and may be made into cakes or tarts; it may also be very much enriched by adding more flead to the same proportion of flour. Average cost, Sd. per lb. l^TJTBiTious Qualities op Ylovr.—The gluten of grain and the albumen of vegetable juices are identical in composition with the albumen of blood. Vegetable caseine has also the composition of animal caseine. The finest wheat flour contains more starch than the coarser; the bran of wheat is proportionably richer in gluten. Eye and rye-bread contain a substance resembling starch-gum (or dextrine, as it is called) in its properties, which is very easily converted into sugar. The starch of barley approaches in many pro- perties to cellulose, and is, therefore, less digestible. Oats are particularly rich in plastic substances; Scotch oats are richer than those grown in England'or in Germany. This kind of grain contains in its ashes, after deduction of the silica of the busts, very nearly the same ingredients as are found in the ashes of the juice of flesh. Fine American flour is one of the varieties which is richest in gluten, and is consequently one of the most nutritious. ALMOHD CHEESECAKES. 1219. Ingeedients.—i lb. of sweet almonds, 4 bitter ones, 3 eggs* 2 oz. of butter, the rind of 5 lemon, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 3 oz. of sugar.