524 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, PAKTBIBGhJ pis. 1036. Ingkedients.—S partridges, pepper and salt to taste, 1 tea- spoonful of minced parsley (when obtainable, a few mnslirooms), | lb. of veal cutlet, a slice of ham, l- pint of stock, puff paste. Mode.—LivLQ a pie-dish with a veal cutlet; over that place a slico of ham and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Plucli, draw, and wipe the partridges; cut off the legs at the first joint, and season them inside with pepper, salt, minced parsley, and a small piece of butter ; place them in the dish, and pour over the stock; line the edges of the dish with puff paste, cover with the same, brush it over Math the yolk of an egg, and bake for S to 1 hour. Time.—| to 1 hour. Average cost, Is. 6f?. to 2s. a brace. Svfficient for 4 or 5 persons. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. Note.—Should tlie partridges bo very largo^ split tliemin half; tliey will then lie in the dish more compactly. When at hand; a few mushrooms should alwa^^s be added, ♦ POTTED PAETBIDQB. 1037. iNaEEDiENTS.—Partridges; seasoning to taste of mace, allspice white pepper, and salt; butter, coarse paste. Mode.—Pluck and draw the birds, and wipe them inside with a damp cloth. Pound well some mace, allspice, vmite pepper, and salt; mix together, and rub every part of the partridges with this. Pack the birds as closely as possible in a baldng-pan, with plenty of butter over them, and cover with a coarse flour and water crust. Tie a paper over this, and bake for rather more than I-2- hour; let the birds get cold, then cut them into pieces for keeping, pack them closely into a large potting-pot, and cover with clarified butter. This should be kept in a cool dry place. The butter used for potted things will answer for basting, or for paste for meat pies.—See coloured plate, D1. Time.—li hour. Seasonable from the 1st of September to the beginning of February. SAIsMI BE PEBDBIX, or HASHED PAHTBIDG-ES. 1038. Ikgeediekts.—3 young partridges, 3 shalots, a slice of lean ham, 1 carrot, 3 or 4 mushrooms, a bunch of savoury herbs, 2 cloves, 6 whole peppers, f pint of stock, 1 glass of sherry or Madeira, a small lump of sugar. Mode.—Aiiev the partridges are plucked and drawn, roast them