MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. soo Mode.—The bones for this dish should have left on them a slight covering" of meat; saw them into pieces 3 inches long ; season them with pepper and salt, and put them into a stewpan with the remaining ingredients. Stew gently, until the vegetables are tender, and serve on a Hat dish within wails of mashed potatoes. Time.—f hour. Average cost, exclusive of the bones, 2cL Seasonable at any time. BlSSOIiSS (Cold Meat Cookery). 645. Ingredients.—The remains of cold roast beef; to each pound of meat allov/ f lb. of bread crumbs, salt and pepper to taste, a few chopped savoury herbs, ^ a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, 1 or 2 eggs, according to the quantity of meat. Mode.—Mince the beef very fine, which should be rather lean, and mix with this bread crumbs, herbs, seasoning, and lemon-peel, in the above proportion, to each pound of meat. Make all into a thick paste with 1 or 2 eggs; divide into balls or cones, and fry a rich brown, vjarnish the dish with fried parsley, and send with them to table some good brown gravy in a tureen. Instead of garnishing v^^ith fried parsley, gravy may be poured in the dish, round the rissoles : in this case, it will not be necessary to send any in a tureen. Time.—From 5 to 10 minutes, according* to size. Average cost, exclusive of the meat, 5d, Scaso-iiahle at any time. BOIiIiSD BEiSF, to eat like Hare. 646. IxGiiEDiENTS.—About 5 Ibs. of the inside of the sirloin, 2 glasses of port wine, 2 glasses of vinegar, a small quantity of force- meat (Ko. 417), 1 teaspoonfLil of pounded allspice. J/o6/(?.—-Take the Id side of a large sirloin, soak it in 1 glass of port wine and 1 glass of vinegar, mixed, and let it reoaain for 2 days. Make a forcemeat by recipe ^o. 417, lay it on the meat, and bind it up securely. Hoast it before a nice clear fire, and baste it with 1 glass each of port wine) and vinegar, w^ith which mix a teaspoonful of pounded allspice. Serve, with a good gravy in the dish, and send red- currant jelly to table with it. Time.—A piece of 5 lbs. about 1| hour before a brisk fire. Average cost, for this quantity, 55. 4t?. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonahlo at riiy tiino.