812 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. saucepan or wide kettle of boiling water. When the surface looks thick, the milk is sufficiently scalded, and it should then be put away in a cool place in the same vessel that it was scalded in. Cream may be kept for 24 hours, if scalded without sugar; and by the addition of the latter ingredient, it will remain good double the time, if kept in a cool place. All pans, jugs, and vessels intended for milk, should be kept beautifully clean, and well scalded before the milk is put in, as uny negligence in this respect may cause large quantities of it to be spoiled ; and milk should never be kept in vessels of zinc or copper. Milk may be preserved good in hot weather, for a few hours, by placing the jug which contains it in ice, or very cold water; or a pinch of bicarbonate of soda may be introduced into the liquid. Milk, when of good quality, is of an opaqub white colour : the cream always comes to the top; the well-known milky odour is strong; it will boil without altering its appearance in these respects; the little bladders which arise on the surface will renew themselves if broken by the spoon. To boil milk is, in fact, the simplest way of testing its quality. The commonest adulterations of milk are not of a hurtful character. It is a good deal thinned with water, and sometimes thickened with a little starch, or coloured with yolk of egg, or even satFron; but these processes have nothing murderous in them, CUBDS AND WHEY. 1629. Ingredients.—A very small piece of rennet', i gallon of milk. ilfoe/^.—Procure from the butcher's a small piece of rennet, which is the stomach of the calf, taken as soon as it is killed, scoured, and well rubbed with salt, and stretched on sticks to dry. Pour some boil- ing water on the rennet, and let it remain for 6 hours ; then use the liquor to turn the milk. The milk should be warm and fresh from the cow : if allowed to cool, it must be heated till it is of a degree quite equal to new milk ; but do not let it be too hot. About a tablespoon- ful, or rather more, would be sufficient to turn the above proportion of milk into curds and whey; and whilst the milk is turning, let it be kept in rather a warm place. Time.—YTom 2 to 3 hours to turn the milk. Seasonable at any time. DEVOT^SHIRE CREAM. 1630. The milk should stand 24 hours in the winter, half that time when the weather is very warm. The milkpan is then set on a stove, and should there remain until the milk is quite hot; but it must not boil, or there will be a thick skin on the surface. When it is suffi- ciently done, the undulations on the surface look thick, and small rings appear. The time required for scalding cream depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire; but the slower it is done, th#