MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 846 ingredients; and the above mixture answers for hot cross buns, by putting in a little ground allspice; and by pressing a tin mould in the form of a cross in the centre of the bun. Ti7ne.—15 to 20 minutes. Average costy Id. each. Sufficient to make 18 buns. TO MAKE GOOD PIiAIN BUHS. 1730. Ikgeedients.—1 lb. of :aour, 6 oz. of good butter, J lb. of sugar, 1 egg, nearly J pint of milk, 2 small teaspoonfuls of baking- powder, a few drops of essence of lemon. Mode.—'WBxm the butter, without oiling it; beat it with a wooden spoon; stir the flour in gradually with the sugar, and mix these ingredients well together. Make the milk lukewarm, beat up with it the yolk of the egg and the essence of lemon, and stir these to the flour, &c. Add the baking-powder, beat the dough well for about 10 minutes, divide it into 24 pieces, put them into buttered tins or cups, and bake in a brisk oven from 20 to 30 minutes. Time,—20 to 30 minutes. Average cost. Is. Sufficient to make 12 buns. Seasonable at any time. LIGHT BTJlsTS. 1731. iNaEEDiENTS.—-1 toaspoonfui of tartaric acid, i teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 1 lb. of flour, 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, I lb. of currants or raisins,—when liked, a few caraway seeds, i pint of cold new milk, 1 egg. Mode.—Rub the tartaric acid, soda, and flour all together through a hair sieve; work the butter into the flour; add the sugar, currants, and caraway seeds, when the flavour of the latter is liked. Mix all these ingredients well together; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour in the milk, mixed with the egg, which should be well beaten^ mix quickly, and set the dough, with a fork, on baking-tins, and bake the buns for about 20 minutes. This mixture makes a very good cake, and if put into a tin, should be baked li hour. The same quantity of flour, soda, and tartaric acid, with i pint of milk and a little salt, will make either bread or teacakes, if wanted quickly. Time.—20 minutes for the buns; if made into a cake, 1| hour. Sufficient to make about 12 buns.