99 MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME SOUPS. TVme.—Nearly 4 hours. Average cost, Is, per quart. Seasonable from September to March. Sufficient for 10 persons. BEGEISTCY SOUP. 182. Ingredients.—Any bones and remains of any cold game, such as of pheasants, partridges, &c.; 2 carrots, 2 small onions, 1 head of celery, 1 turnip, i lb. of pearl barley, the yolks of 3 eggs boiled hard, 5 pint of cream, salt to taste, 2 quarts of stock No. 105, or com- mon stock, No. 106. Mode.—FlnGe the bones or remains of game in the stewpan, with the vegetables sliced; pour over the stock, and simmer for 2 hours; skim off all the fat, and strain it. Wash the barley, and boil it in 2 or 3 waters before putting it to the soup; finish simmering in the soup, and when the barley is done, take out half, and pound the other half with the yolks of the eggs. When you have finished pounding, rub it through a clean tammy, add the cream, and salt if necessary; give one boil, and serve very hot, putting in the barley that was taken out first. Time.—2| hours. Average cost, Is, per quart, if made with medium stock, or 6d. per quart, with common stock. Seasonable from September to March. Sufficient for 8 persons. SOUP A LA BEmE. I. 183. Ingredients.—I large fowl, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, the crumb of If French roll, f pint of cream, salt to taste, 1 small lump of sugar, 2 quarts of good white veal stock, No. 107. Mode.—^oi\ the fowl gently in the stock till quite tender, which will be in about an hour, or rather more; take out the fowl, pull the meat from the bones, and put it into a mortar with the almonds, and pound very fine. When beaten enough, put the meat back in the stock, with the crumb of the rolls, and let it simmer for an hour; rub it through a tammy, add the sugar, i pint of cream that has boiled, and, if you prefer, cut the crust of the roll into small round pieces, and pour the soup over it, when you serve. Time.—2 hours, or rather more. Average cost, 2s. 7d, per quart Seasonable all the year. Sufficient for 8 persons. Note.—'AW white soups should be warmed in a vessel placed in another of boiling water. {JSee Bain Marie^ No. 87.)