188 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY, A SUBSTITUTE POB CAPEK SAUCE. 384. Ingredients.—h pint of melted butter, No. 376, 2 tablespoon^ fills of cut parsley, | teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 3fode.—Boil the parsley slowly to let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine. Add it to | pint of smoothly-made melted butter, with salt and vinegar in the above proportions. Boil up and serve. Time,—2 minutes to simmer. Average cost for this quantity, Zcl, PICKLED CAPSICUMS. 3B5. Ingredients.—Yinegar, \ oz. of pounded mace, and | oz. of grated nutmeg, to each quart; brine. 3Iode.—Gather the pods with the stalks on, before they turn red; slit them down the side with a small-pointed knife, and remove the seeds only ; put them in a strong brine for 3 days, changing it every morning ; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, with another one over them, until they are perfectly free from moisture. Boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, with mace and nutmeg in the above propor- tions ; put the pods in a jar, pour over the vinegar when cold, and exclude them from the air by means of a wet bladder tied over. CAYENNE VINEGAK, or ESSENCE OP CAYENNE. 386. Ingredients.—J oz. of cayenne pepper, j pint of strong spirit, or 1 pint of vinegar. Mode.—Pnt the vinegar, or spirit, into a bottle, with the above proportion of cayenne, and let it steep for a month, when strain off and bottle for use. This is excellent seasoning for soups or sauces, but must be used very sparingly. CELEBY SAUCE, FOB BOILED TUBKEY, POULTBY, &c. 387. Ingredients.—6 heads of celery, 1 pint of white stock. No. 107, 2 blades of mace, 1 small bunch of savoury herbs ; thickening of butter and flour, or arrowroot, J pint of cream, lemon-juice. Mode,—Boil the celery in salt and water, until tender, and cut it into pieces 2 inches long. Put the stock into a stewpan with the mace and herbs, and let it simmer for | hour to extract their flavour. Then strain the liquor, add the celery and a thickening of butter kneaded with flour, or, what is still better, with arrowroot; just before serving, put in the cream, boil it up ar l squeeze in a little lemon- juice. If necessary, add a seasoning of salt and white pepper.