280 MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. BEEF-STEAKS AND OYSTER SAUCE. 603. Ingredients.—3 dozen oysters, ingredients for oyster sauce {see No. 492), 2 lbs. of rump-steak, seasoning to taste of pepper and salt. Mode.—Moke the oyster sauce by recipe No. 492, and when that is ready, put it by the side of the fire, but do not let it keep boiling. Have the steaks cut of an equal thickness, broil them over a very clear fire, turning them often, that the gravy may not escape. In about 8 minutes they will be done, when put them on a very hot dish; smother with the oyster sauce, and the remainder send to table in a tureen. Serve quickly. Time.—'About 8 to 10 minutes, according to the thickness of the steak. Average cost, Is. per lb. Sufficient for 4 persons. Seasonable from September to April, BEEF-STEAK PIE. 604. Ingredients.—3 lbs. of rump-steak, seasoning to taste of salt, cayenne, and black pepper, crust, water, the yolk of an egg. Mode.—Have the steaks cut from a rump that has hung a few days, that they may be tender, and be particular that every portion is per- fectly sweet. Cut the steaks into pieces about 3 inches long and 2 wide, allowing a small piece of fat to each piece of lean, and arrange the meat in layers in a pie-dish. Between each layer sprinkle a seasoning of salt, pepper, and, when liked, a few grains of cayenne. Fill the dish sufficiently with meat to support the crust, and to give it a nice raised appearance when baked, and not to look flat and hollow. Pour in sufficient water to half fill the dish, and border it with paste (see Pastry); brush it over with a little water, and put on the cover ; slightly press dovv^n the edges with the thumb, and trim oflt* close to the dish. Orna- ment the pie with leaves, or pieces of paste cut in any shape that i'ancy may direct, brush it over with the beaten yolk of an egg; make a hole in the top of the crust, and bake in a hot oven for about 'II hour. Ti7ne.—In a hot oven, li hour. Average costy for this size, 35. 6d. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. Seasonable at any time. Note.—Beef-steak pies may be flavoured in various ways, with oysters and