2 HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. incompatible with the enjoyment of Hfe. Let us, however, now proceed to describe some of those home quahties and virtues which are necessary to the proper management of a Household, and then point out the plan which may be the most profitably pursued for the daily regulation of its aiiairs, 3. Early Eising is one of the most Essential Qualities which enter into good Household Management, as it is not only the parent of health, but of innumerable other advantages. Indeed, when a mistress is an early riser, it is almost certain that her house will be orderly and well-managed. On the contrary, if she remain in bed till a late hour, then the domestics, who, as we have before observed, invariably partake somewhat of their mistress's character, will surely become sluggards. To self-indulgence all are more or less disposed, and it is not to be exj)ected that servants arc freer from this fault than the heads of houses. The great Lord Chatham thus gave his advice in reference to this subject:—I would have inscribed on the curtains of your bed, and the walls of your chamber, ' If you do not rise early, you can make progress in nothing.'" 4. Cleanliness is also indispensable to Health, and must be studied both in regard to the person and the house, and all that it contains. Cold or tepid baths should be employed every morning, unless, on account of illness or other circumstances, they should be deemed objectionable. The bathing of children will be treated of under the head of Management qf Childken." 5. Frugality and Economy are Home Virtues, without which no household can prosper. Dr. Johnson says: ''Frugality may be termed the daughter of Prudence, the sister of Temperance, and the parent of Liberty. He that is extravagant will quickly become poor, and poverty will enforce dependence and invite corruption." The necessity of practising economy should be evident to every one, whether in the possession of an income no more than sufficient for a family's requirements, or of a large fortune, which puts financial adversity out of the question. We must always remember that it is a great merit in housekeeping to manage a little well. "He is a good waggoner," says Bishop Hall, " that can turn in a little room. To live well in abundance is the praise of the estate, not of the person. I will study more how to give a good account of my little, than how to make it more." In this there is true wisdom, and it may be added, that those who can manage a little well, are most likely to succeed in their management of larger matters. Economy and frugality must never, however, be allowed to degenerate into parsimony and meanness. 6. The Choice of Acquaintances is very important to the happiness of a mistress and her family^ A gossiping acquaint^vnce, who indulges in tb»