691 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. Mode—Boil the vermicelli in the milk until it is tender; then stir in the remaining ingredients, omitting the cream, if not obtainable. Flavour the mixture with grated lemon-rind, essence of bitter almonds, or vanilla ; butter a pie-dish ; line the edges with puff-paste, put in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for about f hour. Time,—% hour. Average cost. Is. 2d, without cream. Su^cient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable at any time. Yeksiicelli.—The finest vermicelli comes from Marseilles, Nimes, and Montpellier. It is a nourisliiDg food, and owes its name to its peculiar thread-like form. Vermicelli means, little worms. VICARAGE PUDDI]>7G. 1378. Ingeedients.—:| lb. of ilour, ^ lb. of chopped suet, | lb. of currants, ^Ib. of raisins, 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar, ^ teaspoonful of ground ginger, i saltspoonful of salt. 3Iode.—Put all the ingredients into a basin, having previously stoned the raisins, and washed, picked, and dried the currants; mix well with a clean knife ; dip the pudding-cloth into boiling water, wring it out, and put in the mixture. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, plunge in the pudding, and boil for 3 hours. Turn it out on the dish, and serve with sifted sugar. Time.—3 hours. Average cost, Sd, Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonahle.—Suitable for a winter pudding. VOL-AU-VSNT (an Entree). 1379. Ingeedients.—I to 1 lb. of puff-paste Ko. 1208, fricasseed chickens, rabbits, ragouts, or the remains of cold fish, flaked and warmed in thick white sauce. 3/o6Z6\—Make from | to 1 lb. of puff-paste, by recipe Xo. 1208, taking care that it is very evenly rolled out each time, to insure its rising properly; and if the paste is not extremely light, and put into a good hot oven, this cannot be accomplished, and the vol-au-vent will look very badly. Roll out the paste to the thickness of about li inch, and, with a fluted Slrn cutter, stamp it out to the desired shape, either round or oval, and, with the point of a small knife, make a slight incision in the paste all round the top, about an inch from the edge, which, when baked, forms the lid. Put the vol-au-vent into a good brisk oven, and keep the door shut for a few minutes after it is put in. Particular attention should be paid to the heating of the oven, for the paste cannot rise without a tolerable degree of heat 2 T 2