MODERN HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. 406 STEWED BBBAST OF VEAIi AND PEAS. 858. Ingeedients.—Breast of veal, 2 oz. of butter, a buncL. of savoury herbs, including parsley ; 2 blades of pounded mace, 2 cloves, 5 or 6 young onions, 1 strip of lemon-peel, 6 allspice, i teaspoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, thickening of butter and flour, 2 table- spoonfuls of sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, 1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, green peas. IIode—Qut the breast in half, after removing the bone underneath, and divide the meat into convenient-sized pieces. Put the butter into a frying-pan, lay in the pieces of veal, and fry until of a nice brown colour. Now place these in a stewpan with the herbs, mace, cloves, onions, lemon-peel, allspice, and seasoning; pour over them just suffi- cient boiling water to cover the meat; well close the lid, and let the whole simmer very gently for about 2 hours. Strain off as much gravy as is required, thicken it with butter and flour, add the remaining ingredients, skim well, let it simmer for about 10 minutes, then pour it over the meat. Have ready some green peas, boiled separately; sprinkle these over the veal, and serve, It may be garnished with forcemeat balls, or rashers of bacon curled and fried. Instead of cutting up the meat, many persons prefer it dressed whole;—in that case it should be half-roasted before the water, &c. are put to it. Time.—2i hours. Average cost, 8^d, per lb. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Seasonable from March to October. Beeeding op Calves.—The forwarding of calves to maturity, whether intended to be reared for stock, or brought to an early market as veal, is always a subject of ^reat importance, and requires a considerable amount of intelligence in the selection of the best course, to adopt for either end. When meant to be reared as stock, the breeding should be so arranged that the cow shall calve about the middle of May. As our sub- ject, however, has more immediate reference to the calf as meat than as stock, we shall confine our remarks to the mode of procedure adopted in the former case ; and here, the first process adopted is that of weaning; which consists in separating the calf entirely/ from the cow, but, at the same time, rearing it on the mother's milk. As the business of the dairy would be suspended if every cow were allowed to rear its young, and butter, eheese, and cream become desiderata,—things to be desired, but not possessed, a system of economical husbandry becomes necessary, so as to retain our dairy produce, and yet, for some weeks at least, nourish the calf on its mother's milk, but without allowing the animal to draw that supply for itself: this, with the proper substituted food on which to rear the young animal, is called weaning, VBAIi CAKB (a Convenient Dish for a Picnic). 859. Ingeedients.—A few slices of cold roast veal, a few slices of cold ham, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of minced parsley, a little pepper, good gravy. Mode—Cut off all the brown outside from the veal, and cut the €ggs into slices. Procure a pretty mould ; lay veal, ham, eggs, and