effects of mineral and vegetable irritants. 143 character is produced.”* Phosphorus seems to act both by the heat disengaged in its combustion, and by the acid which is the result of it. Treatment.—After injury from any of these acids, the first thing to be done is to wash it away, and neutralize it by repeated ablution ivitli warm soap and water, with a little carbonate of soda; tlien to apply poultices or any simple dressings to the ulcers that remain. The pain of these injuries is greatly increased by cold. Alkalis and Caustic Earths.—These, like the acids, appear to destroj' animal matter by combining with its water. They also form a soap with the fat. Caustic potass, in the form of tifjuor potassce, and quick lime, are the substances of this class which most fre- quently give rise to accidents. The liquor ammonice produces al- most instant vesication and great pain when it touches the skin; it is, therefore, much to be prized as a speedy and efficient counter- irritant. Treatment.—Ablution with weak wai'm vinegar and water, followed by poultices and simple dressings. ISIetallic Compounds.—The bichloride of mercury acts by its ten- dency to combine with albumen; and the chloride of zinc and chloride (or butter) of antimony probably produce their cauterant effects in a similar manner. The nitrate of silver is remarkable for the superfi- ciality of its effects. It may vesicate the skin, or destroy a film on the surface of a sore, but its action does not spread. It suffers decomposi- tion at the moment of its contact with the animal tissue; its acid ap- pearing to be separated, whilst the metallic o.'dde combines and forms a white crust with the animal matter: and this soon becomes black, because the silver loses its oxygen, and is reduced to the metallic state. Treatment.—The bichloride of mercury is rendered inert by white of egg mixed with water;—the chloride of antimony is decomposed by water;—the nitrate of silver by common salt; and the chloride of zinc by a solution of an alkaline carbonate. These, therefore, would respectively be the proper applications for external injuries caused by these metallic compounds; although such cases very rarely come under the surgeon’s cognizance. Arsenic, if locally applied, produces inflammation, or sphacelus, not by any chemical action, but by its infiuence on the vital properties of the part;—it may also be absorbed into the circulation, and produce its ordinary constitutional effects as well. The suiyical treatment of any local injury from this mineral must consist in removing it as much as possible by ablution or otherwise, and then apjilying poultices, or whatever other dressings may be most appropriate. Lime-water might be useful if applied at first. Some cases, almost too horrible to think of, are recorded of the destruction of women by the local applica- tion of this poison. * Elements of CUemistr)-, 5th edit. p. 377.