FRACTUUES OP THE IICMERUS. 240 SO as to relax the biceps and coracobracliialis, and must be confined to the trunk. V. Fractures of the Humerus.—/VucO/re of the shaft will be known at a glance by the limb being bent, shortened, and helpless, and by the cre])itus felt when it is handled. The Ufi'er K.xtre.mity of the Humerus maybe fractured 1. through the anatomical neck ; 2. through the line'of junction of the epiphysis; 3. through the surgical neck ; 4. the greater tuberosit}- may be broken off; .5. the head may be dislocated from the glenoid cavity, and the cervix be friicturi'd likewise. (1.) Fracture through the anatomical neck, that is to say, within the capsular ligament, is a rare accident, difficult of diagnosis ; there being-j scarcely any displacement; “ The impairment j of the motions of the joint and crepitus,” saysj Dr. Smith, “ arc .almost the only symptoms onj which we can depend.” There is one variety of this fracture in which the det.ached head of the I bone is driven foiaibly into .and impacted in thg^ reticular ti.ssue of the head of the sli.af t, between the tubercles, one or other of which is usually broken off. “ In this accident,” s.ays Dr. Smith, “ the arm is slightly shortened, the acromion process projects more than natural, and the shoulder has lost, to a certain extent, its rounded form; the upper extremity of the shaft of the humerus is approximated to the acromion, and the entire of the globular head of the bone cannot be felt. In consequence of the frac- ture of the tuberosity, crepitus can be readily detected, when the shoulder is grasped with moderate firmness, and the arm rotated. The absence of a rounded tumour in the .axilla and the impossibility of feeling the glenoid cavity are sufficient to enable us to distinguish this fracture from luxation.” (2.) Fracture at the line of junction of the epiphysis, c.alled by Sir A. Cooper, “ fracture through the tubercles, or at the anatomic.al neck,” is a not unfrequent accident in early life, and is usu.ally caused b}' great and direct violence. Symptoms.—The head of the bone can be felt in the glenoid caviU' (by which sign this accident is distinguished from dislocation); it remains motionless when the elbow is rotated; there is a striking and abrupt projection situated beneath the coracoid process, .and caused by the upper extremity of the sliaft of the bone, drawn inwards by the muscles which constitute the folds of the axilla ; it may be felt rounded, smooth, and slightly convex, not with the sharp irregular margin of ordinary fracture ; a slight extension from the elbow draws the broken point of the bone into its natural place, but it immediately projects again when the extension is discon- tinued ; the axis of the arm is directed downwards, outwards and backwards.