564 ONYCniA MALIGNA. tions, in which the edge of the nail is embedded, and which often pro- duces so much pain as totally to prevent walking. TreMment.—The objects are, to remove the irritation caused by the nail, and reduce the swelling of the soft parts. In most cases, if the nail, ha\dng been well softened by soaking in warm water, is shaved as thin as possible with a knife or file or bit of glass, the pain and irritation may easily be allayed by rest for a day or two, with foment- ations and poultices ; and then any ulcer that has formed will soon heal, with the aid of black wash on lint, or a touch of lunar caustic, or a lotion of a grain of sulphate of copper to an ounce of distilled water. But if the case is more obstinate, the edge of the nail may be removed, by passing the sharp blade of a pair of scissors resolutely under the nail, cutting it through, and then quickly tearing away the offending portion with forceps. The pain attending this operation renders chlo- roform e.xpedient. If the complaint return after this, the whole nail had better be dissected out, together with the gland that secretes it. Persons disposed to this affection should always wear loose shoes, and keep their nails scraped rather thin, so that they may be flexible. The [author would remark, that the swelled state of the feet which renders 'corns and all other affections of the feet painful, may generally be relieved by a saline purgative. 2. Onychia Maligna is a peculiarly unhealth}^ ulcer occurring at the root of the nail, either of the fingers or toes, but more frequently of the latter. It commences with a deep red swelling, and an oozing of a thin ichor from under the fold of skin at the root of the nail; and lastly, an ulcer is formed, with a smooth tawny or brown surface, a verj' fetid sanious discharge, and swelled jagged edges of a peculiar livid dusky hue. It is in general extremely painful, especially at night. Treatment.—Mr. Wardrop recommends mercury to be employed, so as to affect the gums in about a fortnight; and says that then the swelling will generally subside, and the ulcer become clean. The mercurial effect should be continued gently till the sore is healed, and for a short time afterwards. The best local applications are solution of arsenic (liq. arsen. 5ij. ad aq. 3ij.), as recommended by Mr. Aber- nethy, which will generally be found to succeed ; solution of corrosive sublimate (P. L.), of nitrate of silver, black and yellow wash, and other compounds of the same description. Fumigation by means of a candle made with a drachm of vermilion to an ounce of wax, is also useful.t • From a cast in the King's College Museum. t Vide Lawrence, Lectures in Med. Caz.;^ James V.ardrop, L.H.S.L., on Diseases of the Toes and Fingers, Med. Cliir. Irans. vol. v.