ACUPUNCTURE. 571 with towels arranged so that his clothes may not he soiled by the blood, and being moreover protected from cold, so that the flow of blood to the surface may not be checked, and the operator having his scari- ficator, glasses, torch, spirits of wine, lighted candle, hot water, and sponge, conveniently arranged on a table close bj'; the first tiling is to sponge the skin well with hot water, so as to make it somewhat vascular. The operator next dries it with a wami towel, and adapts his glasses to tlie part. Their number must depend on the quantity of blood to be taken—from three to five ounces is a fiiir calculation for each glass. In the next place, he dips the torch in the spirit, sets it on fire, introduces it for half a second into one of the glasses, and imme- diately claps the latter on the skin—and the same with the other glasses in succession. As soon as the skin has become red and swollen, he charges the scarificator, and takes it between his right forefinger and thumb, at the same time holding the lighted torch between the little and ring fingers of the same hand. lie then detaches one glass by insinuating the nail of his left forefinger under its edge—instantly discharges the scarificator on the swollen skin, and as expeditiously as possible introduces the torch into the glass, and applies it again. The same process is repeated with the other glasses. When they become tolerably full, or the blood begins to coagulate in them, they must bo detached in succession and re-applied, if blood enough has not been taken—and when the operation is finished, the wounds should be closed with lint and plaster. There are several points connected with this operation that require notice. In the first place, the glasses must not be exhausted too much; if they are, the pressure of their rims will Occasion severe pain—the blood will not flow—and the operation will very probably be followed by a considerable ecchymosis. Secondly, the position of the glasses must be slightly varied each time they are applied, so tliat their edges may not again press on the same circle of skin. Thirdly, the expediency of not burning the patient needs scarcely be hinted at. Fourthly, in taking off the glasses, the upper part of each should be detached first, so that the blood may not escape. Lastly, the length of the scarificators must be adjusted to the thickness of the skin ; for if the incisions are too deep, the fat will protrude through them, and prevent the flow of blood. The direction of the incisions should correspond to the course of the muscular fibres beneath; but this is of no great consequence. For cupping on the temples smaller glasses and scarificators are employed. A branch of the temporal artery is generally wounded, and the flow of blood may be expedited by slightly lifting the lower part of the rim of the glass. Pressure should be kept up on the wounds for some days afterwards, in order to prevent secondary haemorrhage or false aneurism. V. Acupuncture is easily performed by running in five or six needles with a rotatory motion. It is certainly very efficacious in some cases of neuralgia, but it is by no means easy to explain its operation. Acupuncture is also resorted to in anasarca, when the skin is much