RETENTION OF URINE. 501 Treatment.—The first object is, to keep up the action of the bowels by eneniata of warm water, and by the mildest laxatives; and to allay irritation by occasionally leeching the sacrum; by belladonna and opiate plasters; or occasional eneinata, or suppositaries of opium, or large doses of henbane or conium; and by the tepid hip-bath. Sir B. Brodie recommends injections of linseed oil, either pure or mixed with lime water, and balsam of copaiba with alkalis internally. When the obstruction threatens to become considerable, it will be expedient to use bougies, very gently, of the softest materials, and not more frequently than is absolutely necessary. When these fail, it may be expedient as a temporary resource, to cut through, or to excise some portion of the obstructing growth ; some surgeons have even extir- pated the lower extremity of the rectum ; but all these operations can only be regarded in the light of palliatives. As a last resource, an artificial anus may be formed by Amussat’s operation.* XVII. Pruritus Ani, a verj^ violent itching of the anus, is a very troublesome afi'cction. The best plan is, to keep the bowels open with sulpliur, seidlitz powders, or castor oil, with occasional doses of blue pill ; to put the stomach in proper order ; to bathe the part very frequently' with ivatcr as hot as can be borne ; and to apply some stimulating or astringent substance, such as nitrate of silver, weak solution of corrosive sublimate, the citrine ointment, or lemon juice. The liq. arsenicalis may be tried in an obstinate case. CHAPTER XX. OF THE DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. SECTION I.—OF RETE.NTION OF URINE FROM SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE .MALE URETHRA. Retention of Urine.—This term signifies want of power to pass the urine from the bladder. The student must make himself aware of tile distinction between this and the steppression of urine ; in which latter case, there is no urine secreted by the kidneys, and the bladder is consequently empty. He should notice also the important fact that an involuntary dribbling of urine often occurs when the bladder is full almost to bursting, and that this is no sign that there is no retention. Causes.— Ketention of urine may' be caused by' morbid conditions of the urethra, including spasmodic and permanent stricture, contrac- tioti of its orifice ; the impaction of stones or other foreign bodies in it; and the presence ot cicatrices, abscesses, tumours, and fractured bones external to it; by disease of the prostate ; and by palsy of the bladder. • Walshe, op. cit. p. 297.