62 ERYSIPELAS. fortnight, when it is nearly refilled, a second puncture should be made (but not too near to the former), and should be healed again in like manner. This operation should be repeated at proper intervals, taking care never to let the abscess become so distended as it was be- fore the previous puncture,—and using moderate support by bandages in the . intervals. Thus, in fortunate cases, these repeated partial evacuations, combined with proper constitutional measures, will cause the abscess gradually to contract;—so that it either becomes completelj^ obliterated, or degenerates into an insignificant fistula.* This method of treatment was introduced by the late INIr. Abeme- thy. He, however, recommended as much as possible of the matter to be evacuated at each operation, instead of allowing it to run spontane- ously;—which latter method is much better calculated to preclude the admission of air, and avoids all irritation of the cyst by rough hand- ling or squeezing. But if air have gained admission into the cavity of the abscess, and the pus have become putrid, and prostration of strength and dry brown tongue show its influence on the system, then the indications plainly are, to make free openings and counter-openings, so as to prevent all lodgment of the putrid pus ; and to wash out the sac occasionally with injections of warm water, containing a very little of the solution of chloride of soda. At the same time the general treatment of typhoid fever must be adopted, and the strength be supported by wine, nourish- ment, opium, &c. CHAPTER X. OF ERYSIPELAS AND DIFFUSE INFLAMMATION OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. SECTION I. — PATHOLOGY OF ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. Instead of treating of erj'sipelas amongst the diseases of the skin, as if it were a mere example of ordinary inflammation, ,attacking the skin, and deriving its peculiarities solely from the stmeture affected, we shall adopt the opinion that was doubtfully held by John PIunter,+ ♦ Vide Forgusson’s Practical Surgerv, 2nd ed. p. 79, and Lancet, Nov. 6,1841, for an excellent case treated successfully In this way in the King's College Hospital. M. Bonnet has suggested tliat the part in which tlio abscess is situated, might be immersed under water at the time it is punctured. Tliis would, of course, render the ingi-ess of air impossible. + Hunter's words are, “ in some constitutions, every inflammation wherever it oxi.sts, will probably be of this kindand (speaking doubtfully of the ery- sipelatous nature of Inflammations of mucous membranes he adds), “ what- ever the inflammation may be, it is certainly attended with nearly the same kind of constitutional aifoctiou. The fever in both appears to bo tlie same i. e., as in ei'j’sipelas.