49 ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. manner, inosculating in all directions, gives rise to the florid surface of granulations. Adhesions and Cicathices, formed of newly developed fibro-cel- lular tissue (especiall}’- if developed through the medium of nucleated cells), are extremely liable to shrink, and become atrophied. Thus, the extensive cicatrices left after severe burns always contract greatlj'; and adhesions between serous surfaces may, in the course of time, disappear entirely. During certain states of constitutional cachexy (as the sciuwy) old fractures have become disunited, and old cfcatrices have broken out afresh into wounds; showing that the new tissue has less vitality than that of original formation.* Parts liable to adhesion.—As we observed at page 31, serous membranes are ver}' liable to be united by adhesive inflammation, whilst the lymph effused from mucous membranes is generally cast off, and does not become adherent or organized. But if two abraded and inflamed mucous surfaces are placed in apposition and left undisturbed, they may adhere;—as sometimes happens in the vagin® of female children;—in the os uteri and Fallopian tubes of prostitutes, and in the ureters and biliary ducts when abraded by the passage of calculi. Is blood organizable ?—It has been a matter of dispute, whether coagulated blood, like pure fibrine, is capable of becoming organized. There can be little doubt, especially after the observations made by Mr. Prescott Hewett on extravasations into the cavity of the arachnoid and confirmed by other instances adduced b}^ Mr. Paget, but that it is capable of conversion into an organized fibro-cellular substance precisely like the false membrane formed under the adhesive inflam- mation. This is of common occurrence after blood has been extra- vasated in the brain ; moreover the coagula in obstnicted blood- vessels, and in obliterated aneurisms also become covered with a thin false membrane, evidently formed out of the coagulum itself. Then it was long ago proved b}' Hunter, and has since been confirmed by Home, Macartney, Kienian, and Dalrymple, that coagula are capable of becoming vascular. But 3'et for all practical puiposes, it suffices to know that lymph, and not blood, is the material employed by nature, under ordinary circumstances, for the production of new tissues, and reparation of injuries; and that if blood be effused in any quantity it is rather a hinderance than a help : for the clots usually excite inflam- mation, and aie extruded by suppuration.’)* • In ex.'miining tlie body of a m.-idman who had stabbed himself in the abdo- n)on fifteen dillerent times during ins life, the parts near the most recent wounds were found united by considerable false membranes at the situation of some that were older, there were only a few thin cellular adhesions ; whilst, at the oldest, there was no trace of adhesion or false membrane whatever Andral, Anat. Path. vol. i. p. 486. + Vide Palmer’s ed. of Hunter, vol. iii.; Catalogue of the Hunterian Museum, vol. i.; Carswell, op. cit.; Macartney, op. cit. p. SI; Home, Phil. Trans 1818- Wardrop on Aneurism, in the Cyclop. Pract. Surgeiy; Dalrymple, Mod. Chir! Trans, vol. ix.; P. Hewett, ibid., vol. x., see also Lancet for 1845, vol. i p 219- Paget's Lectures, Mod. Gaz. 1849 and 1860. E