DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 370 of the part.” In this state, the case merely requires to be watched, to prevent injurious increase of action. Secondly, an ulcer may be inflamed, when its haz}’- circumference will be observed to be highly vascular. Leeches and counter-irritation with soothing applications, are the remedies. But an ulcer is not necessarily inflamed, because it has red vessels going to it; these bring materials necessary for its repair, and are not morbid. Thirdly, an ulcer may be indolent, clear, and transparent, looking as if a little bit had been cut out of the cornea; without any vascu- larity or effusion of lymph. This state requires stimulating applica- tions (arg. nit. gr. i. ad aq. Ji.) Again, ulcers may form on a surface that is already rendered opake and nebulous by scrofulous inflammation. However, in any case, counter-irritation, and measures to improve the health, together with weak caustic lotion or vin. opii used twice a day, are the chief remedies. The surgeon should remember the tendency of the cornea to slough from insufficient and non-azotized food, as proved by the experiments of "^Majendie. The pupil should be dilated with belladonna, if the ulcer is near the centre of the cornea. When an idcer is very irritable, keeping up constant pain and into- lerance of light, in spite of soothing applications, the best plan is to touch its surface with a finely-pointed pencil of nitrate of silver, so as to produce an insensible film on the surface; this is to be repeated at intervals of three or four da}'s. VII. Staphyloma is a term employed to signify any protrusion on the anterior surface of the eye. 1. Staphyloma iridis signifies a protrusion of the iris, which oc- curs when the cornea is perforated by ulcers or wounds. The term myocepkalon is applied to the pro- trusion of a verj' small piece of the iris through an ulcerated opening in the cornea. For the treatment, see p. 353. 2. Staphyloma of the cornea is said to exist when a portion or the whole of the cornea, whose texture has been disorganized by injury or disease, bulges betore tlie pressure of the humours of the eye, and forms an opake, white prominence. If partial, it is usual to recom- mend that the nitrate of silver or butter of antimony be applied to the apex of the staphyloma, so that the inflammation excited may thicken the cornea, and enable it to resist further protrusion ; the caustic to be well washed off with milk before the lids are closed. But besides sympathetically affecting the other eye, it Is seldom that the use either of the nitrate of silver or butter of antimony checks the Represents Staphyloma cornese, from Dr. Westmacott’s collection.