AFFECTIONS OF TOE MOUTH AND TONGUE. 426 between the muscle and the skin, an operation which has been suc- cessfully performed by Mr. W. Fergusson, and the use of a screw dilator, are the only available remedies. SECTION IV. OF THE AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. I. Small Tumours, semitransparent and fluctuating, contain- ; ing a glairy matter, and probably consisting of obstructed mucous I follicles, are often met with on the inner surface of the cheeks and lips. II. Ranula is a tumour of the same nature, situated under the tongue. It may consist either of one of the Whartonian ducts, or of a follicle obstructed. This and the foregoing tumours are best treated by snipping out a small piece of the sac, and rubbing the interior with lunar caustic; or by passing a small seton through the sac. III. Tongue-tie signifies a prolongation of the framiun linguae, confining the apex of the organ to the lower jaw. It is usually de- tected by the difficulty which the infant has in sucking ; and may easily be relieved by dividing the frmnum witli a blunt-pointed pair of scissors,—taking care to direct their points downwards, and to keep as close to the lower jaw as possible, so as to avoid the lingual artery. IV^. Wounds of the tongue are liable to bo attended with severe hannorrhage from the lingual artei^L If the bleeding orifice cannot be tied, one or more ligatures must be introduced with curved needles, so as to include and constrict the bleeding parts ; or a heated iron may be applied through a tube. V. Inflammation of the tongue, known by great swelling, ten- derness, and difficulty of speaking and deglutition, must be treated by bleeding and leeches, purgatives, slight incisions, and the an- tiphlogistic regimen generally. Inquiry should be made whether the patient has been taking mercury. If abscess fonn, the fluctuating part should be opened.* Abscesses are liable to form under the I tongue, and to cause suffocation by their pressure on the glottis: .an f incision beneath the chin, through the mylo-hyoid muscle is the only g resource. ^’I. IlYrEUTROPiiv.—Slow enlargement, without tenderness or structural disease, sometimes affects the tongue, causing it to pro- trude pernianentl}’ from the mouth. The superfluous portion may be removed by ligature,—a needle armed with a strong double ligature being passed through the centre of the tongue, and one thre.ad being then tied very tightly round each h.alf. Rut if it be not very consider- • Somotiinos the tongue enlarges suddenlj’ to an immense size, so ns almost to cause suirocation, but witliout any symptoms of inflammation properly so called. A case which proved fatid in spite of bleeding, leeching, calomel, and incisions, is related by Mr. Lyford, of Winchester, in the Lancet for 1828, p. 1C;