TREATMENT OP PRIMARY SYPHILIS. 184 about the size of a split pea. On each patch are clusteredor six minute vesicles, which, being extremely transparent, appear of the same red colour as the patch on which they are situated. In twenty-four or thirty hours the vesicles become larger, milky, and opake ; and on the third day they are confluent and almost pustular. If the eruption is seated on the inner surface of the prepuce, the vesicles commonly break on the fourth or fifth day, and form a slight ulcer with a white base and rather elevated edges. If this ulcer be irritated by caustic or otherwise, its base may become as hard as that of a chancre. If left to itself, it mostly heals in a fortnight; sooner, if situated on the external skin. The catise of this complaint is either some derange- ment of the digestive organs, or irritation within the urethra, which should be ascertained by the bougie. It is very liable to recur in the same individual, which of course, if known, will greatly aid the diagnosis. Treatment. — A little drj' lint, or goldbeater’s skin, at first, and subsequently a very weak lotion, with aperient and altera- tive medicines. 4. Psoriasis preeputii, painful, irritable, and bleeding cracks or fissures around the edge of the prepuce,—best treated by ung. hydr. nitr. dil., and arsenic internally. SECTION V.—OF THE TREATMENT OF PRIMARY SYPHILIS. Local Treatment.—It seems to be pretty well established, that if a chancre lasts for a few days only there will be no fear of secondarj'- symptoms, and no need to administer mercury. If, therefore, a patient applies so soon as he perceives the chancre, it will be advisable to touch it thoroughly with a stick of nitrate of silver, and destroy it; then give an aperient, enjoin rest and tow diet, and wrap the penis in rag dipped in warm water, to prevent inflammation. But if the sore has lasted more than a week, the nitrate of silver will not act deeply enough to destroy it effectually'; and the potassa fusa, or strong nitric acid, must be employed instead. But the foregoing plan cannot be adopted with safety if the chancre presents a well-marked indurated lump, or if the penis is swelled and inflamed, and the patient feverish, or if there is any swelling or tender- ness in the groin. When this is the case, the local applications should consist of some liquid capable of chemically decomposing the poisonous secretions of the sore, and of a strength proportioned to the existing irritation. Black wash ; a very weak solution of chloride of soda, and decoction of oak-bark with a little tincture of catechu, which Mr. Acton uses as a substitute for the vin aromatiqite, the favourite appli- cation of M. Ricord, are the most useful. If there is very much irritation the penis should be enveloped in a poultice of boiled camo- mile flowers. If there is much induration Ricord recommends an ointment of calomel. Afterwards, during the indolent and granulat- ing stages, the sore may be treated with any astringent lotion, and be touched occasionally with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper.