365 GONORRIICEAL OPHTHALMIA. tions to be mentioned presently, do not arrest the disease, and tin; clicmosis is evidently extending round the cornea, and the cornea is becoming hazy, six or eight incisions should be made completely through the swollen conjunctiva, beginning at the margin of the cor- nea, and radiating towards the circumference of the eye.* “A small curved bistoury must be introduced just where the chemosed conjunc- tiva overlaps the cornea, and the point be carried through the entire thickness of the swelling to the palpebral sinus, taking care not to injure the sclerotic coat, then the hand should be depressed, and the bistoury made to cut its way out. The incisions maj" be advantage- ously employed more than once in the same case, and are useful even when the conjunctiva is not entirely chemosed.” t They should be fomented with warm water, that they may bleed. If there comes on, as fre([uently happens, an exacerbation of pain towards evening, it may be ])revented bj' applying a few leeches in the afternoon, or by putting blisters behind the ears. The eye should be frequently but gently washed out, b)'means of a jiiece of fine sponge, or syringe, with warm water or poppy decoction, containing a grain of alum to an ounce, in order to get rid of the puru- lent secretion , and once or twice daily, a few drops of a freshl}’ made clear solution of two grains of nitrate of silver in an ounce of distilled water should be dropped into the eye by means of a camel’s hair pen- cil. As soon as the cheniosis begins to lessen, the proportion of alum in the poppj'-water may be increased ; or the weaker preparations of F. 140, may be used instead. The diet also should be improved, and the edges of the lids should be smeared at night with weak ung. hyd. nit. ox. If the strength becomes impaired, and the cornea has given way, tonics, especially bark or sarsaparilla should bo administered, which, with repeated blisters, and a continuance of the astringent ap- plications, are the measures for removing the relicks of the disease. ^Ve must add, that a groat variety of stimulating applications have been recommended at various times for the cure of this disease, such as liq. plumbi acet. undiluted, and the ol. terebinth. Mr. Guthrie in particular recommended an ointment of arg. nit. gr. x. liq. plumbi ll'Lxv. adipis 5i., the nitrate to be very finely powdered, and the lard well waslied. A piece of ointment the size of a pea, or a large drop of the solution on a hair pencil, to be tlioroughly diffused between the lids and globe twice a day at the least. Tlie ointment should turn the membrane white. But there is room for suspicion that very concen- • This practice wa.s revived by I\Ir. TjTroll (Vide Med. Ciiir. Trans, voi. xxi. Part li., and Tyrroii on the Kye, voi. i. ji. 73). it is mentioned liy Astruc in the foiiowing terms. “ It wa.s tiiougiit proper some time ago to try tiie same remedy in the eye tending to a mortification, as is imuie use of in otiier i)arts of tile body wiien tiiey are liircatened witii tlie same disea.se; viz. to scarifii the swelkd coiijmvdiva thick and dap, so tiiat tiie gioiie of tiie eye, and especiaiiy the cornea, might be iess compressed by it; fur that sudden lie-truction of the eye seemed to bo chietiy owing to its being too tightiy emiiraced by tiie sweiied conjuncliva." Astruc on tiie Venereai Jiisease, transiated from tiie Latin, Loud. 17.i4. t iiaynes Waiton, Med, Time -, Nov. 1848.