40 ACUTE INFLAMMATION. of a lancet; and the leeches should be well dried in a cloth. The best plan of stopping haemorrhage from leech-bites is to dip small pellets of lint in the tinct. ferri sesquichloridi, and press them on the holes for a few minutes. Other plans are to insert a finely pointed pencil of lunar caustic into them, to touch them with a red hot knitting needle, or to stitch them up with a very fine needle and silk, or to apply a small piece of inatico leaf. But in order to prevent the very serious coiisequences that sometimes happen from this source to children and delicate persons, directions should always be given that the bleeding from leech-bites should be stopped before the patient is left for the night. Moreover it will be prudent to apply them over some bone, so that the pressure may be applied effectuall}'. Again, leeches, if they stick too long, should be removed by touching them with salt, and should not be pulled off forcibly ; nor should they be applied to the eyelids or prepuce, otherwise they will probably be followed by oedematous swelling. Cupping, when it can be adopted, is a more active measure, and relieves pain sooner than leeches. Punctures are of use in superficial inflammations of the skin; incisions are of use when inflamed parts are covered with a dense unyielding fascia, as in whitlow ; or when there is great tension, as in phleg- monous erysipelas ; or when the inflamed part is infiltrated with an irritating fluid, as in extravasation of urine, or with unhealthy matter, as in carbuncle. 2. Cold applications are of use to diminish heat, cond cause contrac- tion of the capillaries ; but they should be applied continuouslj', other- wise the pain will be aggravated when the heat returns. They should be applied by means of a single piece of thin linen frequently changed ; and care should be taken that the vapour may pass off freely, other- wise the cold lotion will soon be converted into a hot fomentation. In some severe cases, ice or frigorific mixtures(F. 114) maybe applied in bladders. The following very effectual means of applying a continuous degree of cold is recommended by Dr. INIacartney. The inflamed limb is to be placed in a trough or piece of oilcloth, with a piece of lint on the inflamed part. A large vessel full of cold water being then placed on a table by the bedside, one end of a broad strip of cloth should be dipped in the water, and the other end (which should be cut to a point) laid on the lint; and so the water will be carried in a constant gentle stream down the cloth to the inflamed part. 3. Warinth. Very often cold adds to irritation, .and perhaps in most cases tepid applications (8.5° F.ah.) are the best; for they do not stimulate like heat, nor occasion painful reaction like cold, and are more directly sedative than either. Warm fomentations (92°—98° Fall.) are useful by relaxing the skin, soothing pain, and promoting perspiration, and are especi.ally indicated in inflammations of dense tendinous parts. But in every case the patient’s feelings should be consulted, and the application be warm or cold .according to his choice. Dr. M.acartiiey very justl}’ insists on the necessity of producing an agreeable state of feeling in inflamed parts, as a means of relieving