462 WOUNDS OP TUB ABDOMEN. and as soon as pain or vomiting comes on, he should be bled. Subse- quently bleeding, leeches, and fomentations to the belly, to abate in- flammation ; and large doses of opium to support the system under the irritiition, are the only available remedies. The bowels should not be disturbed either with purgatives or enemata for the first three days, nor should any nutriment be taken, save very small quantities of the mildest fluids at intervals. IV. Abscesse.s between the abdominal parietes occasionally result from contusions or punctured wounds, and sometimes occur idiopa- thically. According to the principles laid down in the chapter on abscess, the}"' should be opened earlj’, both because of the tendinous structures by which they are covered, and of the possibility that thej”^ might burst into the peritonaeum. V. Penetrating Wounds of the abdomen may be divided into four species: namely, 1st, simple wounds of the parietes; 2ndly, wounds of the viscera ; 3rdly, wounds of the parietes with protrusion of the viscera ; and, 4thl}^, wounds in which some of the viscera are protruded and wounded likewise. 1. In the case of a simple ivound of the parietes, the surgeon must first (if it be large enough) gently introduce his finger, to ascertiiin that no part of the intestines is beginning to protrude; then the wound must be closed by sticking-plaster ; or by suture, if it is ex- tensive. If the epigastric artery is divided, it must be cut down upon and tied. The surgeon must recollect tliat when any part of the abdominal parietes has been wounded or severely bruised, it is almost certain afterwards to become the seat of hernial protrusion. 2. Wounds of the viscera.—In the case of small wounds of the abdomen without protrusion, it will be often impossible to say whether the bowels are wounded or not, but the treatment must be altogether the same, whether the}' are or not. (a) Wounds of the stomach may be known by the situation and depth of the wound, by vomiting of blood, by the very great depres- sion and collapse, and by the nature of the matters (if any) that escape from the wound. (i) Wounds of the lovxls may perhaps be known by the passage of blood with the stools, or by fmcal matter escaping from the wound, or by the symptoms of extravasation of their contents into the abdominal cavity—that is to say, excruciating pain, radiating over the whole belly from the seat of the injury, and attended with signs of great collapse. Fortunately, however, as Mr. Travers has shown, wounds of the stomach and intestines, unless very large, are not so liable to be attended with extravasation as was fonnerly thought. For, in the first place, the mucous membrane protrudes through the muscular, so as to fill up a small aperture ; and, secondly, any ten- dency to extravasation is counteracted by the constant equable pres- sure of all the abdominal viscera against each other. Moreover, lymph is soon ellused, and glues the neighbouring parts together, and thus the aperture is circumscribed, and any future e.xtravasation is prevented.