TUMOURS OP BONE. 224 fulous cases there is also a deposit of more or less tubercular matter. After a time suppuration occims ; an abscess breaks, and the carious portion of the bone, already softened and spongy, gradually perishes in minute scales, which are thrown off and disch^arged with the pus. The bone, when macerated and dried, looks soft and spongy ; eaten into hollows, and thrown into irregular elevations ; the latter marking the site of granulations, and of attempts at reparation. Symptovis.—“ The external character of the limb,” says Mayo, “ is the same in necrosis and caries. The bone appears en- larged, and one or more sinuses open from it at points that are soft, and red, and sunken.” If a probe is passed into these, it will readily break dowm the softened texture of the carious bone, which yields a gritty feel. Causes.—Caries most frequently attacks bones of a soft, spongy texture; such as the vertebrce, the round and flat bones, and the articular extremities of long bones. Its genuine cause is some constitutional disorder, scroful.a, syphilis, or mercurJ^ Treatment.— The indications are two- fold ; — to rectify constitutional disorder, and to remove the local disease. The former object must be accomplished by change of air, tonics, and alteratives, and the measures that have been directed for scrofula and syphilis, supposing the caries to be connected with those maladies. If it can be done, the best local remedy consists in freely exposing and removing the whole of the diseased portion of bone by the saw, or gouge, or trephine. If this cannot be done, lotions of the dilute nitric or phosphoric acids may be tried. Caries of the articular extremities of bones will be considered together with diseases of the joints. SECTION V.—OF TUMOURS, AND ADVENTITIOUS GROWTHS IN BONE. Of the various tumours of bone, those which depend on an hyper- trophy of its normal structure (as the cccostosis) or on the enlargements incident upon inflammation and its consequences, have been described in the preceding paragraphs. I. Tumours from Extravasated Blood.—Mr. Travers* de- • Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxi.