123 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. aperture, one of which may pass out, and the other diverge and wound some important organ. So that, in many c^es, the prognosis should be guarded, especially if the state of constitutional alarm and depression, instead of diminishing, increase considerably, and dispro- portionately to the apparent extent of the injury. Sometimes it will happen that a ball splits, either from a defect in the casting, or from its striking against some sharp bony ridge, as the vomer or shin.* But it frequently happens that large masses of metal are impacted in the substance of a part without much external indication of their presence, it appearing as though they made room for themselves by compressing the surrounding soft parts.+ Foreign Bodies.—Gun-shot wounds may be complicated by the presence of other foreign bodies besides the ball; and these are divided by Dr. Hennen into two classes; namely, 1 st, pieces of the clothing, or of matters contained in the pockets, or portions of the body of some unfortunate comrade ;J 2dly, pieces of bone or muscle belonging to the individual, but which have become virtually extraneous, in conse- quence of being dead and detached. These are infinitely more mis- chievous than the former. It must be recollected that although there may be no hall in a gun or pistol, yet the wadding may act as a ball, if the piece is discharged close to the body. The surgeon in civil practice who examines a gun-shot wound indicted with intent to mur- der, should always save the wadding if he finds any, as it may aiford a clue to the detection of the murderer. * A Brunswick soldier at Waterloo “ was struck by a musket-ball on tlie tip of the nose, which split upon the bony edge where joined by the cartilage. A piece of the ball was extracted on the spot, and it was sujtposcd that the ball itself had been purpo.sely cut into piecc.s, as is sometimes done by foreign riflemen. The cure went on without accident until the tenth day, when the man was seized with a violent hsemorrhage from the nose and mouth, which came on suddenly, and carried him olf in the course of the night. On dis- section, it appeared that a very minute portion of the ball hud penetrated along the ba.-^is of the skull, and lodged in the sinus of the left internal jugular vein, fonning a sort of sac for itself close upon the vein, and having inliamed the coats of the vessel, they at last ulcerated and burst.”—Hennen, op. cit. p. 91. t Hennen relates the case of a young ofliccr who was killed at the siege of Seringapatam by a cannon-ball of thirty-two pounds, which com])letely buried itself in the muscles of his hip. A mass of grape-shot, the size of the closed fist, has been extracted from under the plantar aponeui’osis. Guthrie gives a case in which a ball of eight pounds' weight lodged in the thigh without making a large opening, and was not discovered till it accidentally rolled out on amputa- ting the limb. J A pocket of coarse linen, containing two five franc pieces and two copper coins, has been extracted after some days from the vastus extenius muscle, in which it was deeply imbedded. Three pieces of coin were extracted on the fifth day after the battle of Waterloo, from a wound in the thigh of a poor Hanoverian soldier. As he possessed neither money nor pocket to put it into, the coins evidently came from a comrade who stood before him, and who was killed by the same shot. Part of the cranium has been found imbedded in the thigh,—a tooth in the temporal muscle,—and the olecranon of one man in the bend of another man’s elbow.