LITHOTOMY. 538 After Treatment.—When every fragment of the stone has been removed, and the bladder has been syringed with warm water, the patient should be put to bed. Dr. Nott, an American surgeon, is in the habit of passing a large catheter, and injecting a stream of warm water through it into the bladder, whilst the patient sits over a cham- ber pot. Every fragment is thus washed through the wound. The patient should lie on his back with his shoulders elevated; a napkin should be applied to the perinseum to soak up the urine, and the bed be protected by oilcloth. It is a good plan to introduce a large gum elastic canula through the wound into the bladder for it to flow through. If not, the surgeon should introduce his finger after a few hours, to clear the wound of coagula. Pain must be allayed by opium —the bowels be kept open with castor oil—the wound be kept per- fectly clean, and then, in favourable cases, the urine begins to flow by the urethra in about one week, and the wound heals completely in four or five. Complications.—1. Severe haemorrhage may proceed from the pudic or bulbous arteries if wounded. If the bleeding orifice cannot be secured, it must be compressed as long as may be necessarj- with the finger. A general venous or arterial oozing must be checked by filling the wound finnlj’^ with lint or sponge—the tube being then indispensable. 2. Tenderness of the belly and other inflammatory symptoms must be combated by leeches, fomentations, and opiates. 3. Chronic inflammation of the bladder, with ammoniacal urine, by the measures directed at p. 516. 4. Sloughing of the cellular tissue from urinous infiltration, a frequent result of a hasty operation, and of too freely incising the neck of the bladder, is indicated by heat of the skin and sleepiness, followed by a rapid jerking intennittent pulse— hiccup—the belly tympanitic, the countenance anxious, and the other signs of irritative or typhoid fever. To be treated by wine, bark, and ammonia, by thoroughly opening the wound with the finger, and, if necessary, la3’ing the wound into the rectum, so that the urine and fetid discharge maj' escape. The BiL.-tTEiiAL Operation is performed by making a curved in- cision, with the convexity upwards, from one side of the perinaeum to the other—carrying it between the anus and bulb of the urethra— opening the membranous portion of the urethra—and then pushing <T double bisloiiri cach6 into the bladder, bj’ which both sides of the prostate ma)' be divided. The Rectovesical Operation consists in cutting into the blad- der from the rectum, in the middle line behind the prostate. The High Operation is performed by making an h’l.ision through in tlio fourth Edition of his Anatomy, Lond. 1730, is that in \vl ich tlio prostate is divide<l in the manner commonly used at present, and which is now Keuerally known as C/ustldtn's (pmition the second, wliich is sicken of in the text, is descril)c<l in the fifth Edition of Clieselden’s Anatomy, Lond. 17-tO; and the sixth Edition. 1741, p. 330. This it is which was de.scribed by Dr. Douglas; and whicii was performed by Mr. C. Mayo, as detailed by liiin in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi.