SCROFULA. 04 '1 Not that it follows (as some foolishly quibble), that all the offspring of all scrofulous parents ought necessarily to have scrofulous diseases; nor 3'et does it follow that the parents must necessarily be scrofulous, although the children be. For parents may beget scrofulous children, vj if debilitated by privation or disease ; if either of them is very old or very yoimg ; and probably if either of them labours under a venereal taint, or has been profuselj’ treated with mercurj^, or has a decided tendency to gout. Secondly. The scrofulous habit, if not congenital, may probably be 4 created by anj^ circumstance capable, directlj' or indirect!}’, of lower- I ing the vital energies; by poverty and wretchedness ; meagre, watery, ' j and insufficient food ; neglect of exercise; insufficient clothing; ha- bitual exposure to damp and cold, but most especially by want of ' fresh air and solar light. It is exceedingly common in the insular and variable climate of England, and still more so in Scotland ; and it is well known that monkeys and parrots, as well as human beings, brought to this country from the tropics, not unfrequently die of con- sumption or other scrofulous diseases. Thirdly. The scrofulous habit may be so intense, that the child is attacked with some of the diseases that we shall presently describe, in spite of all care. Or, on the other hand, actual scrofulous disease may not appear unless the health is first depressed by some other disease, such as scarlatina, measles, the small-pox, or any other acute malady, especially if treated by too much bleeding and mercury. Moreover, everything that disorders the digestive organs may bring it into action. Hence it may be excited in the rich by gross, stimulat- ing, irregular diet, as well as in the poor by habitual scantiness of food. It rarely breaks out before two or after thirty years of age ; although it may be called into active operation at any age by circum- stances which lower the health. Pathology op Tubercle.—The most characteristic element of scrofulous disease is the deposit of a peculiar kind of unhealthy lymph, generally found in round masses, whence it derives the name of tubercle. Like the unhealthy formations that will be spoken of in the ' next chapter, it maybe deposited in three forms, viz.— 1st. In dis- tinct masses, rounded or irregular. 2ndly. It may be infiltrated generally through the tissues of an organ. Or, 3rdly. It may entirely usurp the place and form of some tissue, which is then said to be converted into it. In the first form it is most frequently found in the lungs (where it gives rise to pulmonary consumption), in the follicles of the intestines, in the cancelli of bones, in the brain, in the pleura or peritonmuni, and in the cellular tissue. In the second and third forms, j it is found in the lymphatic vessels and glands, and in the breast, j testis, liver, and kidneys; although it is also frequently deposited in ! these glands or in their tubes in distinct noflules. But wlierever it may be, its course is the same. In its first stage it is deposited slowly j and insidiously; causing no pain or other symptoms, unless it me- ^ chanically interfere with some function. In this quiescent state it |