150 DISSECTION WOUNDS. mouth, and other symptoms indicative of the presence of deleterious miasmata in the blood. But these symptoms are generally quickly removed by fresh air, aperients and stimulants. But there is a third kind of poison, met with in the bodies of those who have died of puerperal fever, phlebitis, and other diseases of an ! erysipelatous character, and capable of producing the most disastrous ■ effects if inoculated into a wound, or even sometimes if applied to the ,unbroken skin. This, which appears to be identical with the morbid poison, or maicries morhi of erysipelas, though septic in its nature, is produced during the life of the patient, and is decomposed or dissipated as decomposition advances after death. The two most important consequences of wounds inoculated with septic poisons are—1. Inflammation of the Ij'mphatics, of which we shall speak elsewhere ; and 2. Typhoid fever, with diffuse inflamma- tion of the cellular tissue, which we now proceed to describe. Symptoms.—The poison having gained admission into the blood through a wound (which is in most cases so slight as to pass un- heededj, at a period varj'ing from six to eighteen hours subsequently, the patient feels altogether unwell: he is depressed, faint, and chilly, and complains of lowness of spirits and nausea. These symptoms are soon succeeded by rigors, severe headache, and vomiting;—the pulse is frequent and shiirp, but weak;—the tongue is coated, and there is the greatest restlessness and despondency. Then the^rs< local symptom appears in the form of a most excruciating pain and tenderness of the shoulder, corresponding to the hand that was wounded. And inmost cases there soon afterwards arises a on or near the wound, which sometimes resembles the small-pox pustule, and in other cases is a flat- tened vesicle, containing a milk-white serum. But this pustule may be unattended with any pain, and the patient may be ignorant of its existence, or may not even be aware that he has received a wound, till his .attention is directed to it by his attendants. As the case pro- ceeds, the piiin in the shoulder becomes more excruciating, .and is attended with fulness of the axilla and neck;—and a doughy swelling appears on the side of the trunk, often extending from the axilla to the ilium. At first it is pale; but it soon assumes an erysipelatous redness, or rather a pinkish tint, like that of peach-blossoms. The breathing now becomes difficult; the pulse quicker and weaker; the tongue dry, brown, and tremulous ; the mental distress is truly appal- ling, although there is seldom delirium; the countenance is haggard, and the skin yellow; and the patient often expires before the local disease has made further progress. Varieties and Complications.—These symptoms often present considerable varieties in their progress and degree of severity, and may be complicated with other maladies .arising from the same, or from some co-existent c.ause. 1. In one sm.all class of cases, the influence of the morbid poison is so virulent, th.at the patient actually dies of tlie precursory fever, before sufficient time has elapsed for any local disease to appear—either in