DISLOCATION OF THE HEAD OF THE FIDDLA. 292 Dislocation of the Patella may occur either inwards or out- wards ; more frequently in the latter direction. The symptoms are, that the knee cannot be bent, and that the bone can be felt in its new situation. This dislocation may be caused either by mechanical vio- lence, or by a sudden contraction of the extensors of the thigh. It mostly happens to knock-kneed, flabby people. There is, in gene- ral, no difficulty in reducing it by means of the finger and thumb, if the knee is straight and the leg raised. There is one variety of this dislocation, however, in which the patella is turned round on its long axis, so that its outer edge lies immediate!}^ under the skin, and its inner edge rests on the trochlea of the femur, where it is as firmly fixed as if screwed down. In one instance, the surgeon was unable to re- duce it by any means, even although he divided the ligamentum patellm, and cut through the quadriceps at its insertion into the patella; and the patient died in eleven months, in consequence of his wounding the joint. Mr. Mayo relates a similar case, in which he succeeded in overcoming the difficulty by bending the knee to the utmost, so that the patella was drawn out of the groove in which it was lodged.* The patella is dislocated upwards after rupture of its tendon by the extensor muscles. This must be treated as fracture of the patella; but it is very rare. Partial Dislocation of the Semilunar Cartilages.—Dur- ing sudden twists of the knee-joint, the semilunar cartilages may slip out of their proper position, and become wedged in between the tibia .and femui’. The symptoms are sudden extreme sickening pain, and inability to stand, or to straighten the limb. This accident generally h.appens to people of rel.axed h.abits, and when it has once happened is very liable to recur. In a c.ase dissected by Mr. Fer- gusson, the external semilunar cartilage was found to be torn from its connexion with the tibi.a, except just at its extremities. The best way of restoring the part to its place, is to place the patient on the .affected side, with the knee bent, .and rotate the tibi.a gently in its axis. Should this not succeed, says Mr. Vincent, “ the only thing is to keep the patient in bed, and in some of his slumbers .all will come right ” of itself. The patient should put on an elastic knee-cap before he moves about. Dislocation of the Head of the Fibula is of very unfre- queiit occurrence ; except as a consequence of relaxation of the liga- ments from weakness, which must be treated by blisters, and b.andages, with a pad to press on the head of the bone. There are two cases of it, caused by violence, in Sir Astley Cooper’s work; the head of the bone could be felt to pass more backwards than natural, and could be * Tliree wises .are rel.ated in Sir A. Cooper ; and a similar one in Sir G. Hal- lincall’s Military Surgerj'. Mr. Vincent s.ays, that the obstinate resistance which this dislocation otters is owing to Hie fact tliat wlien tlie limb is straight the extensor miiscles, which are the retaining force, are in their position of strongest action; when the knee is bent they are in their weakest position. Op. cit. p. 74.