156 nYDKOPnOBIA Every sound uttered by a rabid dog, says IVIr. Youatt, is more or less changed. But there are two sounds in particular that deserve notice; one of which is described as a “ hoarse inward bark, with a slight ele- vation of tone and the other a most peculiar and characteristic com- bination of “ a perfect bark, ending abruptly and very singularlj’’ in a howl, a fifth, sixth, or eighth higher than the commencement.” Other symptoms, observed at the commencement of the disease, are, loss of .appetite, propensity to lick cold surfaces, such as stones or iron; and to devour straws, litter, and similar rubbish ; .and peculi.ar eager- ness in scenting at and licking not only the common urining places, but corners in rooms that are not usuallj' disgnaced by this evacuation. This is considered a highly important symptom. There is no drmd of ivater as in the human being; on the contrary, an insatiable thirst, which the dog endeavours to .allay by lapping as long as he has power over his jaws. The mouth is dry, and the saliva exceedingly viscid ; at first, perh.aps, it is slightly increased in quantity, but this incre.ase soon passes off, and the secretion becomes extremely viscid and sc.anty, sticking to the corners of the mouth, and annoying the poor dog ex- tremely, who may be seen fighting with his paws at the corners of his mouth, as if trying to dislodge some bone which had stuck between his teeth. Thus, the disease when fully formed, is ch.aracterized by delirium, with more or less ferocity, .alteration of the voice, great thirst, and viscidity of the saliva, to which may be added perfect insensibility to pain. As it appro.aches its termination, the eye becomes dull; the hind legs first, .and then the muscles of the jaws .are panilysed, and at length the poor anim.al dies exhausted. But there are some cases in which paralysis of the muscles of the mouth and jaws is a very early symptom; the mouth being open and the tongue protruding. A poor dog in this condition will plunge his muzzle into water up to the very eyes in order that he may get one drop into the back part of his mouth to cool his parched throat. This form of the disease is generally called dumb madness. The usual duration of the dise.ase is from four to six days. The post mortem appc.arances show merely the effects of the malady, in various decrees of congestion of the mucous membrane of the respi- ratory and alimentary surfaces. The tongue, often torn and bruised, and covered with filth ; its papillae prominent and reddened, the mu- cous follicles .about the frasnum enlarged; in the dumb madness, the tongue hangs from the mouth, and is swelled and dark-coloured. The fauces show a more or less partial blush, and the epiglottis and larynx are usually much injected. The trachea, bronchi, and lungs are some- times much congested, sometimes the reverse. The stomach generally shows vivid redness, or sometimes patches of ecchymosis on the summit of its rug,T3; the brain, intestines, bladder, and lie.art display no ap- preciable or constant morbid signs whatever. Perhaps one of the mo§t chiiracteristic evidences of rabies that dissection affords, is the presence of a peculiarly mingled mass of hay, and hair, and straw, and