STONE IN THE BLADDER. 5-29 chloroform. Tlie soiiml should bo carefully moved about, to examine every part of the bladder, and if there is a stone of any size it will most probably be heard to strike and felt to grate upon it. If nothing, however, is discovered, the patient may be made to turn on one side, or to sit upright, or the finger may be passed into the rectum ; or a catheter may be introduced, and the stone may perhaps be felt to strike against it as the urine flows away. But if the symptoms are well marked, the surgeon must not be contented with one unsuccessful examination. On the other hand, the rubbing of the sound on the bladder, or on gravel entangled in mucus, must not be too hastily set down as signs of stone. The symptoms of stone vary in their severity:—1. according to its size and roughness ; 2. according to the state of the urine; 3. ac- cording to the condition of the bladder, whether healthy or inflamed. They may be very slight for years ; in fact, a little pain in micturition and bloody urine after riding may be the only inconveniences. But after a certain period the bladder suffers just as it does from any other cause of irritation ; the urine deposits a slight cloud of mucus ; the bladder becomes more and more irritable and finally inflamed ; the urine becomes alkaline, and loaded with viscid mucus, and of course with the triple phosphate and phosphate of lime; the strength fails, and finally, after years of suffering, the patient sinks under the irrita- tion. Sir B. Brodie, however, has observed, that if the prostate be- come enlarged, the sufferings from stone are often mitigated ; because it is prevented from falling on the neck of the bladder. The sources of vesical calculi are two ;—1. From the urine; 2. from the mucus of the bladder; and calculi are exceedingly liable to form from the latter source, if the prostate is diseased, or if foreign bodies are introduced into the bladder, so as to serve for nuclei. In these cases, the stone is invariably phosphatic. And all calculi, whatever their original composition, are sure to become coated with the phos- phates if the}' remain till the patient becomes old and the bladder diseased. The compnsition of a calculus will be determined by the state of the urine. Its sfre may be appreciated:—l,by its composition, for the phosphatic arc always the largest: 2. by the time it has existed; 3. by observing the force required to dislodge it from its situation; 4. it may be measured by passing the sound across its surface, or by the urethra forceps. Calculi have been known to vary in weight from a few grains to forty-four ounces, and in number from one to one hundred and forty-two. The largest that was ever e.xtracted entire weighed sixteen ounces, but the patient died; Sir A. Cooper was the operator. Gooch tells us that Mr. llarmer, of Norwich, in the year 1746, extracted one entire which weighed nearly fifteen ounces, and the patient lived five years. And Mr. C. Mayo, of Winchester, e.x- tracted one .weighing fourteen ounces and a half, but it was broken, and the patient lived several years. Trcatimnt.—The indications are :—1. to get rid of the diseased state M M