547 VARICOCELE. XII. Varieties OF Hydrocele.— \. Encysted Hydrocele. Some- times a serous cyst is developed on or near the testis. Most frequently it is situated between the tunica vaginalis and epididymis ; very rarely between the tunica vaginalis and testis, and more rarely still within the substance of the e.vternal layer of that tunic. These cysts contain a clear water, and not serum. They may be punctured with a grooved or cataract needle to let the fluid escape, if they have become of in- convenient bulk ; and if it is neces- sary to adopt some radical method of cure, the best plan seems to be to pass a common silk ligature througli the sac with a curved needle, and retain it till it has caused some in- flammation. 2. Hydrocele of the spermatic cord may consist either of an encysted tumour, such as has just been described, or else of a Collection of serum in the cellular tissue of the cord. In either case, the needle must be employed if the swelling becomes troublesome from its bulk. XIII. Varicocele {Cirsoede or Spermatocele) signifies a varicose state of the veins of the spermatic cord. It is caused by the ordinary causes of vari.v ; that is to say, by obstruction to the return of blood, through corpulence, constipation, tight belts round the abdomen, and the like. It is much more common on the left side, than on the right; obviously because the left spermatic vein is more liable to be pressed upon by faecal accumulations in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and because its course is longer and less direct than that of the right vein. Treatment.—In ordinary cases, sufficient relief may be obtaineil by keeping the bowels thoroughly open ; by frequently washing the scrotum with cold water or astringent lotions, so as to constringe the skin ; and by supporting it with a suspensorj^ bandage, made of good stout jean, braced finniy up to a band passing round the abdomen. But there arc some cases in which this disease produces very serious inconvenience—pain in the scrotum and loins—sense of dragging at the stomach—loss of appetite—flatulence—and despondency of mind —and for these cases, something more must bo done. Mr. Wormald recommends the loose skin of the scrotum to be pinched up and con- fined with a steel ring. Blisters and counter-irritants, so as to inflame * Ency.sted hydrocele. From a preparation in the Middlesex Hospital Aluseum.