DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 342 club or loaded stick about two feet long, and from two to sexen pounds in weight, is held in each hand. In this, as well as in using the duml>bells, or other exercises performed in a standing posture, the patient should stand with the heels close together, the feet at an angle of C0°, the knees straight, the belly thrown back (so that it may not be strained), the chest forwards, and the shoulders square ; and whilst both sides are duly exercised, the weaker one should be principally brought into play. Climbing a rope, and swinging by the hands from a cross piece of wood attached to a rope, are also useful. 3. These exercises should never be carried so far as to fatigue ; and after using them the patient should lie down on her back on a flat inclined plane, although any easy posture on a bed or sofa, or on the floor, will do as well. She should never be forced to stand longer than is perfectly agreeable, and when sitting should rest herself well against the back of the chair. Her seat should be wide enough to reach to the knees, and the feet should be well supported. These measures, combined with tonics, especially steel, F. 13, good diet, country air, shower-bathing, friction of the back with horsehair gloves, and atten- tion to the health, may be sufficient to cure incipient cases, and to mitigate severer ones. When curvature of the back arises because one leg is shorter than the other, of course measures must be taken to put both sides of the pelvis on the same level by adding to the sole of the shoe. But when one leg is wasted, the corresponding side of the nates is also smaller, and the patient sits as it were on two cushions of unequal thickness; and as there is a natural instinct which causes every person to keep both e}''es on the same level, the patient is obliged to throw up the shoulder on the wasted side, in order to compensate for the lower level of that side of the pelvis. One mode of remedying this state of things is obvious. Let the patient sit on a seat which is higher by an inch and a half, on the side that the shoulder grows out, than on the opposite. This is a good auxiliary in all cases of lateral curvature. The patient, if a female, maj' have a little cushion which she can tack on to her petticoats, and put under her, without being noticed, when she sits down. Curvature from liichets.—There is another form of curvature from debility, which chiefly affects young children of the lower orders, .and arises from rickets. It is readily distinguished by the general rickety aspect of the patient (vide p. 215), and by the distortion of the limbs that is also present, as well as by the circumstance that the spine is not simply curved laterally as described above, but is often‘curved directly forwards ; the seat of this curvature being the upper p.art of the b.ack ; or perh.aps it may be curved backwards. There .are other measures which must be resorted to for the cure of these and the other severer degrees of spinal distortion, viz. the recum- bent position—mechanical support—and mech.anical extension. 1. The recumbent position, continued for a length of time, is a mea- sure which has been most disgracefully abused by certain spine-quacks ;