VARICOSE ULCER. 78 thin piece of lint be introduced in order to prevent premature union of the cut edges, and make it heal from the bottom. If there have been a succession of small unhealthy abscesses in a part;—or if ulceration have spread irregularly in the cellular tissue, so as to leave tlie skin ragged, and extensively undermined with tortuous sinuses, it may be advisable to destroy the whole of the parts so diseased by the potassa fusa; and this will stimulate the neighbouring sound parts, so tliat when the slough separates, a healthy surface will be left, which may be healed bj'- the ordinary means.* VII. The Varicose Ulcer occurs in consequence of a varicose state of the veins of the lower extremity. This greatly impedes the return of blood, and, by producing habitual venous congestion, weakens the parts, and renders them prone to ulceration. The ulcers are usually three or four in number; situated above the ankle. They are oval in shape, indolent in their progress, and neither extensive nor deep ;—but they are attended with considerable pain, which is of a deep-seated, aching character. The Trcalvient must be directed principally to the veins, and for this, we must refer to the chapter on that subject. We will merely observe here, that the applications to the ulcers must be suited to their condition, whether irritable or indolent;—and that gi’eat relief to the pain is frequently obtained bj' opening one of the enlarged vessels, and abstracting a moderate quantity of blood. The advantages of proper support by bandages or laced stockings, or by encasing the limb in strapping from the foot up^vm•ds, according to Mr. Critchett’s plan, need scarcely to be noticed. Sometimes there is a constant desqua- mation of the cuticle, with serous discharge, for which the best reme- dies are equal parts of lime-water and milk, or the ointment of chalk (F. 164), or of oxide of zinc, or F. 131, or 188. VIII. The Sloughing Ulcer is formed whenever either of the other varieties of ulcer is attacked with sloughing:—which is particu- larly liable to occur to the indolent, when .subjected to undue irritation. Or, this name may be given to ulcers originally produced by a slough- ing of the skin;—as on the legs of the dropsical. Treatment.—The best applications are warm fomentations of poppy decoction, to which a little spirit has been added; poultices of yeast or carrots; or the nitric acid or chloride of lime lotion on lint, with a warm poultice over it. The gastric juice of animals is said to be a specific for certain sloughing ulcers occurring in persons debilitated by the use of ardent spirits and salt provisions, and by residence in hot climates. IX. Phagedajna is a peculiar variety of ulceration, extremely rapid in its progress. The surface of the sore is irregular, generally whitish or yellowish; the discharge serous or bloody, and often extremely profuse; and the pain extreme. Some cases are attended with fever and acute inflammation, the margin of the sore being highly painful, • Liston, Elements of Surgery.