EXCISION OP THE ELBOW-JOINT. 596 This operation has now been performed on most of the joints; and the results cannot be stated better than in the words of Mr. Black- burn, who saj-s, “ that excision is advisable in the shoulder and elbow; that it is admissible, though of doubtful utility, in the ankle ; and that it is inadmissible, except under very peculiar circumstances, in the wrist, hip, and knee.”* I. Excisio.v OF THE Elbow-joint is effected in the following man- ner. The patient is placed on a table; the limb is held out and well supported. The joint is laid open by cutting through the coverings of Its dorsal aspect. If the disease is not very extensive, it will be suf- ficient to make a crucial incision—a perpendicular cut three or four inches long, and a transverse one at the level of the interval between the external condyle and head of the radius. If the disease is more extensive, an H incision should be made, so that two flaps can be turned up. The ulnar nerve should be carefully preserved, and held aside; the insertion of the triceps should bo divided, and then, saj's IMr. Liston, “ the ends of the bones, but slightly retained by their liga- ments, are turned out of the wound by flexing the fore-arm; the soft parts are detached, as much as is necessary, by cutting upon and close to the bones; the extent of ulceration or necrosis is then well ascer- tained, and by the application of the saw the unsound parts may be removed.” A copper spatula may be used to protect the nerve and soft parts whilst the bones are sawed. The cutting bone forceps ma)' be substituted for the s;iw with young patients; and Mr. Fergusson recommends the gouge to be used for the purpose of scooping away small spots of the carious bone, which cannot be removed by either forceps or saw. Any arteries that require it having been tied, the wound is closed by two or three sutures and slips of plaster; and placed half-bent on a pillow. The ends of the bones will unite by ligament, and in man}' cases a very useful degree of motion will be aapiired. II. The Shouldeb-.Ioi.nt may be exposed by making a perpen- dicular incision through the deltoid, three or four inches downwtu'ds from the acromion; and another from the extremity of the first in- cision upwards and backwards to the posterior border of the deltoid. The triangular flap, thus formed, is reflected upwards and backwards; the joint may be laid open; the head of the humerus be exposed and Guy’s Hosp. Kep., vol. i.