483 FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. • I.uke, Mod. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi. p. 108. the epigastric artery will not be wounded. If no stricture be dis- covered in the neck, it must be sought for in the body of the sac. The subsequent proceedings,—the return or otherwise of the in- testine, and the after-treatment—are detailed in the preceding sec- tion. If the surgeon determines on performing Petit’s operation, i.e., without opening the sac, the first point, saj's Mr. Luke, is to ascer- tain the exact scat of the stricture. Now, since the stricture prevents the communication of impulse from any one part of the tumour to any other part beyond the stricture, all that is required is, to press the tumour firml}' between the fingers of one hand so as to cause impulse, whilst with the fingers of the other hand at the neck of the sac, the precise point where impulse ceases is ascertained. At that point will be found the seat of stricture. “ The next step is, to incise the in- teguments so that the centre of the incision shaJl be directly over the stricture ; a proceeding easily accomplished by causing a transverse fold to be pinched up between the fingers and divided by transfixing it with a straight bistoury, in a direction parallel with the long axis of the tumour. The various fascias are subsequently divided, until the neck of the tumour is fairly exposed. If this be carefully and completely done, a depression will usually be observed at the seat of stricture, presenting a more contracted appearance at that part than at others. To the touch this contracted part feels thick, while into it thin layers of fascia dip, which may be mistaken for the stricture itself, but which may be divided wholly independent of it, and no relief arise from the division. When these layers are turned back, the real stricture is exposed to view.” Then the next step is, to scarify the thickened peritonaeum forming the stricture, so as to render it dilatable, without actually cutting through it, and then the taxis is to be used for the return of the hernia. When the stricture is caused by the margin of the external ring, it is easily divided by the heniia-director and bistoury; when at the internal ring, it must be done by the same means, although the operation is more difficult.* SECTION VI. OF FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. Definilion.—Femoral heraia is that which escapes behind Poupart’s ligament. It passes first through the crural riivj—an aperture bounded inter- nally by Gimbe.mat's ligament — externally by the femoral vein— before, by Poupart's ligament—and behind by the bone. It next descends behind the falciform process of the fascia lata ; thirdly, it conies forwards through the sujihcnic opening of that fascia ; and lastly, as its size increases, it does not descend down on the thigh, but turns up over the falciform process, and lies on the anterior surface of Pou- part’s ligament. The coverings of this hernia are—I. Skin. 2. The