548 DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM. and condense the scrotum; division of the veins by the knife or caustic, and passing setons of thread through them, have had their advocates ; and even the barbarous operation of passing a ligature through the scrotum, and tyjng up the skin of half the scrotum, with all the vessels except the artery and vas deferens, so that tliey may be divided by ulceration, has been practised in some cases with success; in others with fatal results; but certainlj' always with a risk of causing atrophy of the testis. Sir A. Cooper proposed the operation of cutting away a good piece of the loose relaxed skin. “ The manner of performing it is as follows :—The patient being placed in the recumbent posture, the relaxed scrotum is drawn between the fingers ; the testis is to be raised to the rim by an assistant; and then the portion of the scrotum is to be removed by the knife.” Any arterj^ requiring it must be tied; and cold must be applied to check bleeding; and then the lower flap of the scrotum must be brought upwards and forwards, and be attached by sutures to the fore and upper part; and a sus- pensory bag should be applied to press the testis upwards, and glue the scrotum to its sm-face. It is of no use to remove too little of the skin. The method which appears most promising at present, consists in the application of moderate pressure to the dilated veins at the exter- nal abdominal ring, by means of Evans’s patent lever truss; so as to release them from the pressure of the superincumbent colmun of blood, and afford them a moderate degree of support.* SECTION III.—DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM. I. Acute CEdema of the Scrotum The loose cellular tissue of this part is exceedingly^ liable to serous infiltration, from inflamma- tion or dropsy. But there is one form of acute cedema, which has been particularly described by Mr. Liston,+ and which is liable to supervene on excoriations of the parts in unhealthy persons. The scrotum becomes enormously swollen and tense, and soon sloughs * imless a free incision is made in the mesial line. The case very much resembles extravasation of urine, but may be distinguished by the absence of swelling in the perimeum, and of obstruction in mictu- rition. II. Cancer Scroti.—This disease is commonly called the ney-siveeper's Cancer, because it is very' seldom met with except amongst that class of men, and because the irritation of soot lodging in the ridges of the scrotum is believed to be the cause of it. It may be remarked, however, that some other irritants are believed to have the same effect on the scrotum. Thus, it is stated on the authority of Dr. Paris, that smelters are liable to a similar disease. And, on the * Vide Sir A. Cooper, Guy's Hosp. Rep. vol. iii. ; Reynaud, Journ. des Con- naissancos M£d., Feb. 1839; James in Prov. Bled. Trans, for 1840, and Curling op. cit. Tho diagnosis of Varicocele has been spoken of at p. 481. t Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxii.