557 SEROCYSTIC DISEASE. 2. The second kind of cyst is fomied by an effusion of fluid into the meshes of the fibro-cellular tissue, which becomes condensed into a cyst around it, and becomes lined with an epithelium of hexagonal scales. Such cysts may occur singly and attain enormous size, or may be numerous and of variable sizes, and may be situated in any part of the organ. And now there comes a most interesting pathological process. Into the cysts thus formed there project growths arising from the gland and consisting of imperfectlj' developed gland tissue, which gradually increase, and fill them up. This disease affects, as Sir B. Brodie observes, the upper classes chiefly, and is not often met with in hospitals. It may affect women of any age from puberty to the cessation of menstruation. It is usually of slow progress, and does not affect the constitution. On examination one or more tumours can be felt, smooth and firm. Enlargement takes place gradually, and if the disease is left to follow its course, the skin becomes distended and thin, and ulcerates, forming a rounded punched-out aperture, from which fungus-like growths shoot forth. At last the affected breast may attain enormous bulk, and may contain cysts of every variety of size, blended with fibrous growths ;—“ cysts containing fluid only ; cysts containing fluid, and intra-cystic growths, vascular and pendulous, very soft and gelatinous, in other instances of the most fibrous and solid nature.” Of course, although not carcinomatous, such a morbid growth may wear out the vital powers. Treatment.—If there is a single cyst with fluid contents, it maj- be perhaps obliterated by puncture which will be followed by suppuration, and by pressure. In the early stages Sir B. Brodie recommends coun- ter-irritation by means of blisters, or tincture of iodine, or by flannel • From a preparation of the late Dr. Hooper’s, now in the King’s College Musedin. It shows a cyst empty, others partially filled, others entirely filled with new growth.