DISEASES OF TIIE TESTIS. 5-14 (tliat the pain originates in a diseased state of the testis itself, as iii sometimes does. If it depends on disorder of the viscera or 'general health, it might return in the cord, after the removal of the testis. VII. The Hydatid or Cystic Disease is a rare affection, and occurs almost exclusively to adults. The testicle swells exceedingly, and its interior is filled with a number of cysts conUiining a watery fluid. They are supposed to be developed from dilated tubuli semi- * niferi; and their interstices are filled with a solid fibrinous substance. This affection is incurable, but not malignant. When the part be- comes of unsightly magnitude, it must be removed. VIII. hlALiGNANT DISEASE of the testis is almost invariably medullary sarcoma, very rarely scirrlitis. At first the gland swells, and becomes very hard and heavy; it is scarcely, if at all, painful or tender, and merely causes slight aching in the loins by its weight. After a time it enlarges rapidly and feels soft, the cord swells, there are occasional darting pains, a fungus protrudes, the lumbar glands become affected, and cachexia and death soon follow in the ordinarj- course. This disease is to be distinguished from hydrocele by its opacity and weight, and from chronic inflammation or the hydatid disease by the darting pains, swelling of the cord, and cancerous cachexia. It maj- further be distinguished from chronic inflammation by the fact, that neither mercury nor any other remedy produces any permanent benefit. Treatment.— Dr. W alshe, as in all other cases of cancer, recommends a fair trial of the iodide of arsenic, and of pressure. He believes that castration as a remedj’ is almost utterly unavailing, since there is hardly an instance on record of permanent recovery after it, whilst in not a few cases, the patient’s life has been brought to a speedy close from the effects of the operation. IX. Castration is performed thus:—the scrotum being shaved, the surgeon grasps it behind to stretch the skin, and then makes an incision from the external abdominal ring to the very bottom of the scrotum. If the skin is adherent, or diseased, or if the tumour is verj" large, two elliptical incisions may be made, so as to remove a portion of skin between them. If there is any doubt as to the nature of the disease, he may next open the tunica vaginalis to examine the testis. Then he separates the cord from its attachments, and an assistant holds it between his finger and thumb, to prevent it from retracting when divided. The operator now passes his bistoury behind the cord, and divides it; and seizing the lower portion draws it forwards and dissects out the testicle. The arteries of the cord, and any others re- quiring it, are then to be tied ; and the wound must not be closed till •all the bleeding has ceased, as this operation is often followed by secondary Imnnorrhage. X. ILe.m.atocei.e signifies an extravasation of blood into the tunica vaginalis, in consequence of injury. It is sometimes combined