TUMOURS OF BONE. 225 scribes a case in which, after a blow, the clavicle enlarged into a firm oval elastic tumour; which, when punctured by a grooved needle, yield- ed a few drops of dark grumous blood. The whole bone was extir- pated. On examination, it was proved that the tumour had evidently originated in a rupture of the vessels of the bone, and an extra- vasation of blood into the cancelli. By the pressure of this blood, and a continuance of the extravasation, the bony tissue was expanded and absorbed; and the cancelli were converted into chambers filled with dark solid coagula. The tumour was invested by the perios- teum. II. Pulsating tumours are sometimes developed in bone, and may be of three kinds. 1st, ^luUgnant tumours, the circulation through which is so energetic, that they pulsate and yield a whizzing sound like that heard in aneurisms. 2ndly, Tumours formed by the development of erectile tissue in the substance of a bone; and, 3rdly, Tumours depending on enlargement of the osseous arteries.* To the last, the name of osteo-aneurism is given. The seat of the tumour is generally the extremity of one of the long bones, and frequently the tibia just below the knee. The patient complains of a sudden pain in the part. This is followed by painful swelling, and all the veins of the leg are observed to be very tense and full. After a time, the whole limb becomes dark, red, and painful; and the tumour becomes dis- tinctl}' pulsatoiy. It is generally moderately firm to the touch, and perhaps gives a slight crackling sensation, owing to the thin shell of bone covering some part of it. On examination it is found to be com- posed of a spongy tissue, containing convoluted vessels and cells, the latter filled with clots of blood in concentric layers; the bone of course expanded, thinned, and absorbed. This disease has also been ob- served in the humerus, radius, femur, and ilium. Ligature of the main arterial trunk of the limb, or amputation, are the only remedies. III. Enchosdroma.— Cartilagi- nous exostosis, osteosarcoma (Muller). A firm spheroidal tumour consisting of masses of true cartilage imbedded in a fibro-membranous cellular struc- ture. ^\'hen boiled it yields the variety of gelatine termed choiuirine. It may be developed in the centre of a bone, or on its surface. In the fonner case, it causes the bone to expand and be absorbed before it, till at last it is covered by a mere shell. This tumour ordinarily affects only one bone, very frequently one of the fingers or toes; and is occasion- ally found in the glands, especially • Stanley, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxviii.; Brcschet .<??«• dcs Tameurs Sanguines.