FEVEE. Termixatjons.—The prognosis will be very unfavourable if the excitement is violent, as that soon leads to coma and death. There will be some hope, however, if the pulse becomes more tranquil and firm, and especially' if the patient sleeps. Causes.—The exciting causes of this state are (surgically consi- dered) mechanical injuries acting on weak constitutions, especially in tlie case of persons of middle age and plethoric habit, who habitually indulge in excess of food and spirituous liquors. TreXtmen't.—The indicafio'hs are to moderate the excitement, procure sleep, and support the strength. “ If in twelve hours, or earlier, after an injury,” says lUr. Vin- cent, “the pulse does not indicate increased action, if it b.’comes riuttering and unequal, when the surface does not seem to evolve heat; when the countenance is listless, and the patient reports him- self better than it might be expected: and particularly if he is not clear in his answers, then the best of all stimuli, brandy', should be thrown in, and if there bo delirium, opium.” Tlie opium may' be given either in one full dose (such as gr. ii.—iii. of solid opium, or It]^ xl.—lx. of Battley’s solution), or in repeated small doses (such as gr. j —every hour or two hours) ; the repeated small doses being, perhaps, best, if debility and restlessness are very' great. Dupuytren believed that opium was most efficacious in these cases when administered in the form of enema. Beef-tea and other mild nourishment should be given, and, if the patient be an habitual drunkard, it will be advisable to allow him to choose his favourite stimulus. Mental excitement is better allayed by one or two kind but firm attendants than by' straps and straight waistcoats. The head should be frequently bathed with tepid water; and the bowels be opened by mild aperients. In cases in whicli the excitement presents somewhat of an inflammatory' character, it may be advisable to try' the effects of tartar emetic with the opium F. G8. In the last stage, when coma supervenes, counter-irritation by means of sinapasms or blisters to the scalp, or feet, or calves of the legs, may be tried. Imt scarcely any means will avail.* CHAPTER III. OF FEVER. SECTION I. — OF FEVER GENERAI.LY. Gener.al Description.—Fever may' be described as a state in which all, or most of the functions of the liody are deranged. The nervous system is shown to be deranged, by the headache, pain in the ♦ Copland's Rict. Art. nelirhim. Gr.aves's Clinical Medicine, lS-13, p. 452; Vincent, Observations on Surgical Practice, Lond. 1848, p. 105.