ACUTE PHLEBITIS. 319 rounded by a hard spherical patch of purple congestion ; though some- times the colour is brighter, and the diseased spot resembles lobular inflammation. In the centre of this discoloured spot a small portion of light-coloured lymph, or a globule of pus, may be detected, which probably is the muteries morbi, and has been deposited there from the blood. In the ne-vt stage, the diseased patch becomes indurated by etfusion of lymph, and afterwards it becomes entirely softened and broken down. In the liver similar abscesses may form, and the hepa- tic veins are sometimes tilled with lymph. The spleen is often found infiltrated and softened down ; and the kidneys mottled with recently effused lymph. Diffused suppurations are common in the cellular tissue and in the muscles. The skin sometimes presents small deposits of mat- ter resembling small-pox pustules; and sometimes circular patches of it, first become congested, and then slough. The brain may be pink and softened, and the arachnoid covered with a layer of pm-iform lymph. The serous memljranes and the joints often inflame violently and sup- purate, although, when the pleura is the seat of disease, the morbid fluids found are usually bloody lymph or serum, and not pus. The blood too may present visible alterations ; the coagula found in the heart and great vessels, often loose in consistence, and brown in colour, mottled with patches of a dirty yellow. Patholofjij.—The extreme fatality of this disease used to be ac- counted for bj' supposing that the inflammation travelled along the great veins to the heart. Mr. Amott, however, showed that this is a mistake, and that the inflammation is generally found to stop abruptly at the juncture of some collateral branch with the inflamed vein. The truth being, that it is not the venous inflammation merely, but the blood-poisoning which accompanies or is caused by that inflammation, which is the real source of danger. If it were not for a benevolent provision of nature, every wound by which a vein is opened, would be liable to bo followed by the intermix- ture with the blood of the purulent and other secretions formed at the seat of injury. This provision consists in the tendency of healthy blood to coagulate firmly, so as to plug the orifices of divided vessels ; and not only so, but also to coagulate, if any foreign noxious substance be mixed with it. Moreover, as has been very clearly shown by Mr. Henry Lee, nothing causes healthy blood to coagulate more quickly than pus ; so that if pus be injected into a vein, or be absorbed in small quantity by the open extremity of a vein, the blood will, under favourable circumstances, coagulate, and so oppose an effectual barrier to the passage of the morbid fluid into the circulation. But, con- versely, anything that hinders this salutary coagulation and plugging of the vessels, may be considered a cause of diffused phlebitis. Causes.—1 St. The first set of causes to be enmnerated are those that produce a low, enfeebled state of constitution, and render the blood incapable of forming a firm clot, :ind of yielding healthy lymph for ad- hesion ; such as profuse loss of blood ; deprivation of food; anxiety of mind ; organic disease; residence in the contaminated air of an hospital.