1G7 THE VENEREAL DISEASE. any other treatment that can be named has been found of no service. Depletion is inadmissible. The effluvia must be counteracted by fumi- gations of chlorine and aromatics. In the treatment of farcy likewise, the chief points are to open all abscesses early, and support the strength. Any swollen glands should be extirpated.* CHAPTER XI. OF THE VENEREAL DISEASE. . SECTION I.—OF ITS GENERAL HISTORY AND PATHOLOGY. >« Definition.—The venereal disease, using the terra in its widest acceptation, consists in the effects of certain morbid poisons, generated and usually communicated by promiscuous sexual intercourse. It includes two distinct diseases, Qoiiorrlioiu, and syphilis, which differ widely in their nature and effects. Both diseases present two classes of symptoms ; the ]irhnary and the secondary ;—the primary being the effects of the morbid poison on the parts to which it is actually applied; the secondary being the sub- sequent results of some general disorder of the constitution. Gonorrihea is an inflammation of the mucous membrane of the genitals, which is occasionally, though not very often, succeeded by various rheumatic affections, as secondary symptoms. Syphilis consists, first, of ulceration of the parts to which the morbid poison is applied, and inflammation of the neighbouring lym- phatics, which are the primary symptoms; and, secondly, of sundry eruptions of the skin, ulcerations of the throat, inflammations of the eyes, and inflammation and caries of the bones and joints, which are the secondary symptoms. The primary symptoms of syphilis are undoubtedly contagious, and' * Vido Elliotson’s papor.s in the Med. Chir. Trana. vols. xiii. xviii. (with a coloured plate) and xix.; the Med. Gaz., vol. xix. p. S)39; ca.su communicated from father to son, Lancet for 1831-32, vol. i. p. (198; Raycr, do la morve et du farcin chez Thommo; Mom. do I'Acad. de Med. 1837; the case.s of the patient and nurse in St. Hartholomew's Ilo.spit.al above quoted, in the Lond. Med. Gaz., April 18th a.nd 25th, 1840; c.-ise of acute glanders cured by injections of creosote by Mr. Ions', Lancet, April 30th, 1839 ; case of acute farcy cured by iodide of pota.ssium with iodine. Arch. Gen. de Med., .Ian. 1843 ; a case similarly treated by Mr. Curtis of Camden Town, .and reported in 'Youatt’s book on the Horse, 1845; and an excellent chapter on glanders, embodying idmost all that is known of the disease, \yith an interesting historical sketch of the progress of knowledge on the subject, in Dr. Burgess’ Transl.ation of Cazenave on Diseases of the Skin, Lond. 1842. See .also a case of acute farcy by Dr. Craigie, Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour., Jan. 1843. Many valuable cases may be found in the Irish Medical Journals, a.s the disease is far more prevalent in the sister kingdom than it is in England.