•295 CHAPTER VII. OF INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES. SECTION I.—OF WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. Si/mptoms An arter}- may be known to be wounded by the flow of blood, which is profuse, of a florid colour, and ejected per saltiim; that is to say,in repeated jets, corresponding to each beat of the pulse. Patholotpj.—It must be evident that the bleeding from wounded arteries must necessarily be profuse and dangerous, because from the nature of their coats they remain open and patulous, and do not col- lapse as the veins do ; and because of the perpetual current of blood impelled by the heart. Hence it is important to study the means by which arterial hEemorrhage is at first arrested, and those by which the wound is afterwards permanently closed; as well as the different effects of different kinds of wounds. There are four processes employed by nature for the temporary sup- pression of arterial haemorrhage. In the first place, the divided orifice conli-Mls more or less; and 2ndly, it retracts into its cellular sheath; flrdly, the blood coagulates in the sheath of the artery and in the wound, and thus obstructs the further exit of it; and 4thly, the faint- ness induced by hmmorrhage, both checks the current of blood from the heart, and gives it an increased disposition to coagulate. Now if a very larye artery, such as the femoral or subclavian, is wounded, and if the aperture in it is large, and the flow of blood is in no manner opposed, the loss of blood will be so rapid as to occasion death almost instantaneously. But if the wound in the artery is very small, it may be closed firmly by coagulated blood during syncope, and the patient may survive.* If the artery is of the second order, as the humeral or tibia], the bleeding will most probably cease for a time through the influence of the four processes that we have just spoken of. But in the course of some hours, when the faintness has passed off, and the heart beats strongly again, the coagula in the orifice of the vessel will most proba- bly be dislodged, and the bleeding will recur again and again, so that the p.atient will very likelj' die of it, unless it be checked by art. In some cases, however, the orifice of the vessel ma}' become permanently closed in the way that we shall mention directly. If the wounded artery is small, as the digital or temporal, the hoeraorrhage, though pretty brisk for a time, will gener.ally soon cease spontaneous!}'^ and permanently in the following manner :—• Supposing the artery to have been completely divided ; its orifices will contract, and will retract into the sheath, which also will be • A case is quoted in Forbes’ Rev. vol. vii. p. 251, in which a patient lived a year after a wound in the ascending aorta.