DISEASES OP THE BONES. 219 weight, and pain. If caused by injury, it may lead to necrosis; but in general it produces no organic change, save irregular enlargement. Treatment.—The general health should be improved by change of air, alteratives, and tonics, especially Plummer’s pill, or hyd. c. creta, in small doses at night, F. 63, 64, and the iodide of potassium, with sarsaparilla. Of the iodide of potassium, Mr. Stanley observes that it never fails to assist in the removal of inflammation from bone, especially when the periosteum or medullary membrane is involved. He is in favour of small or moderate doses, such as gr. ii.—iii. thrice daily. F. 94, &c. The local measures are, repeated leechings and fomentations, so long as there is tender- ness or much pain ; with Scott’s ointment, F. 160, or blisters or iodbu: ]Mmt subse- quently. IV. I.VFLAMMATION OF THE PeRIOS- TEU.vi (or Periostitis) generally occurs on the subcutaneous aspect of thinly- covered bones ; especially the tibia, ulna, clavicles, and cranium. Its chief causes are, 1st. a syphilitic taint, in which case it produces oval swellings, called nodes, through an infiltration of lymph and serum into the periosteum, or between it and the bone. 2ndly. Rheumatism, especially in persons who have taken mercury to ex- cess. 3rdly. Scrofula. In the latter two cases there is usually produced a swelling of the periosteum of the entire circum- ference of one or more bones. The scro- fulous form attacks children, and is accom- panied with remarkably little pain. If acute or mismanaged, periostitis may lead to suppuration, and caries or exfoliation; but more frequently it causes merely a superficial deposit of bone, or an expansion of the surface of the bone. Periostitis occurring near a joint, is apt to involve the synovial membrane. 1 reatment.—lor the acute, leeches, fomentations, purgatives, dia- phoretics, and colchicum in doses of 1lj^ xx. of the wine every six hours; or gr. iii. of the iodide of potassium at the same interval. Ca- lomel may be given in doses of gr. ii., with half a grain of opium every night, if the constitution has not been injured by any previous profuse administration of it; and sometimes the disease will yield to nothing but the full influence of mercury, even although the system has been enfeebled by repeated courses. For the chronic, the same treatment as for chronic inflammation of bone. The severe nightly pain is, after the application of leeches, best relieved by renewed blisters. An in-