523 UKIKARY DISEASES. through fatty degeneration, or through the irritation of stricture or 'enlarged prostate, they are liable suddenly to lose their function of secreting the urine. The consequence of this is, that the urea and other elements of the urine accumulate in the blood; the patient complains of great uneasiness in the head and loins ; he becomes first drowsy, and then comatose, and dies in four or five days of effusion into the brain. This affection is alluded to here, in order to hint at the diagnosis between it and retention of urine. In suppression, if the catheter is introduced, the bladder will be found empty ; whereas in retention, whether from stricture, or from diseased pros- tate, or from palsy of the bladder, it may be felt full and distended above the pubes.’ SECTION VIII. — OF DISEASED CONDITIONS OF THE URINE, AND URINARY DEPOSITS OR GRAVEL. In the urine are washed away the refuse matters derived from digestion, assimilation, and the wear and tear of the body. Any deviation, therefore, from a healthy state of digestion and nutrition is sure to be followed by a change in the properties of the urine. So extensive and complicated is the chemical and physiological historj' of these changes, that we can but refer to the works of Prout, Liebig, Golding Bird, Bence Jones, and Garrod, with which every well-in- formed practitioner is acquainted, and must confine ourselves to the immediate bearings of the subject on surgical practice. We may observe that when the surgeon examines the urine, since it varies extremely in its properties at various hours of the day, the whole quantitj' that is passed during twenty-four hours should be collected into one vessel; so that its acidity, and specific gravity and quantity may be fairly ekimated. We may observe as a further preliminary, that when a precipitate is let fall from the urine after it has been voided, it is called a sediment; that when precipitated in the bladder or kidneys it is called gravid; and that gravel lodging in any part of the urinary passages may concrete into stone. Further, that when the urine of any person habitually presents any one kind of deposit, he is generally said to have a corresponding diathesis; as the lithic diathesis, &c. The principal diseased conditions we are at present concerned with are those in which the urine deposits—1st, uric or lithic acid ; 2ndly, oxalate of lime; 3rdh', phosphates. I. Lithic, or Grid Acid, or Red Gravel.—This is deposited in the form of minute crystals, tinged with the colouring matter of the urine, and resembling cayenne pepper. It indicates a highly acid • For infoniiation on the subject of this ami the following section.s, consult Prout on Stomach and Urinary Disease; Dr. Garrod’s Lectures in Lancet, 1849, and Dr. Hence .lones’s Lectures in tlie Lancet for 1850, vol. i.; Sir H. Prodie’s Lectures on Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 3rd edition; Golding Bird, op. cit.