INJURIES OP THE SPINE. 351 jury, the secretion of urine is diminished, but in a few days it becomes copious, ammoniacal, and offensive, and the mucous coat of the bladder inflames, and secretes a quantity of viscid adhesive mucus. The bowels are distended with wind, and obstinately costive ; in pro- tracted cases the evacuations become black, treacly, and ex- tremely offensive. The tempe- rature of the palsied parts at first rises—in one case so high as 111° F. •—but afterwards sinks to the natural level, or below it. In some few cases, in which the spinal cord is not entirely compressed oiTacerated, the patient may retain some de- gree of sensation or motion, or may suffer from painful spasms of the legs ; but in general the loss of feeling and motion is complete. If the fracture or dislocation be liiyh in the Lack, or at the luicer }xirt of the neck, there will, in addition to the above symptoms, be palsy of one or both arms, and great difficulty of breathing, especially of ea'- piration, because the intercostal and abdominal muscles are palsied, and the diaphragm has no antagonist. If the injuiy be aboi’c the ork/in of the phrenic verve (fourth or fifth cervical), the diaphragm will be palsied, and death instantaneous. The most frequent example of this is the dislocation of the odontoid process, which is sometimes caused by ulceration of its transverse lig.'i- nient, sometimes by blows on the back of the head, or by lifting a child up by the head. IV. Softening is a frequent consequence of concussion or lacera- tion of the spinal cord. The affected part becomes pulpy and dif- fluent, without, however, anj' traces of inflammation. V. Acute Ini’l.vjimation of the spinal cord is a very rare con- sequence of injuries, except penetrating wounds, which generally prove speedily fatal in consequence. It is known by rigours, deli- rium, and opisthotonos, or general convulsions, followed by palsy and com:i. I’rot/nosis.—If a fracture is situated high up, so as to affect the respiration, the patient rarely survives more than a day or two. If it is situated in the lower part of the back, or loins, he may live two or