DISEASES OP THE EAE. 402 SECTION II.—AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. I. Foreign substances in the ear. Children not unfrequently poke bits of slate-pencil, peas, glass beads, &c. into the passage of the ear, which, if allowed to remain, would give rise to violent inflamma- tion and deafness. Any such body should therefore be removed as quickly and as gently as possible, either by syringing the ear with warm water, or by means of a small forceps, or a curette or scoop, or bent wire or probe. If it cannot be removed by gentle means, it should be allowed to remain quietly, says Mr. Vincent, when probably It will become coated with wax, and the passage will enlarge by in- terstitial absorption, so that it will come away without trouble. The surgeon should always make certain, by means of the speculum, that there is a foreign body present before he begins poking instruments ^ into the ear ; remembering that an eminent individual is siiid to have dragged out the stapes whilst fishing for a small nail which was not there after all. II. Otorrhcea, or inflammation of the external meatus, with mnco-purulent discharge, is a very common complaint in delicate children. Sometimes it occurs after scarlatina or some other fever, and sometimes appears to be excited by currents of cold air, or the irritation of decay'ed teeth, especially if the stomach and bowels are in an unhealthy condition. It may occur in connexion with porrigo larvalis, and we may ob- sen'e, that if the discharge from the ear of an unhealthy child comes lin contact with any abraded surface, it is very' liable to induce a \widely spreading porrigo. It may be caused also by the bursting into (the meatus of abscesses which are connected with enlarged glands, or with caries of the temporal bone, as will be mentioned presently. Si/mptoms.—This disease begins with fever, headache, intense pain in the ear, and swelling of the glands of the neck. Soon afterwards a reddish serous discharge appears, which gradually becomes thicker and purulent; and as this increases, the febrile symptoms disappear. The discharge, which is often excessively copious, and excessively fetid, un- less the strictest attention be paid to cleanliness, is generally tedious in its duration, like most other maladies occurring in scrofulous habits; and if neglected, this disease is liable to produce fungous granulations, ulceration of the membrana tympani, suppuration of the tympanic cavity and of the mastoid cells, loss of the ossicula, and caries of the temporal bone. On examination with the speculum, the whole me.atus is seen to be swelled, and vascular, and covered with a slimy secre- tion. Treatment.—During the acute stage, the bowels should be opened with a grain or two of calomel, and the diet be restricted to liquids (which, in fact, from the pain caused by mastication, are the only things the patient is inclined for). The affected ear should be very gently syringed out with warm water or poppy decoction, and be con-