459 OVARIOTOMY. patient takes, the longer she is likely to live) ; (6) operations for opening the cyst into the cavity of the peritonaium by subcutaneous section, thus imitating the cases in which the cyst has been niptured by violent action of the abdominal muscles, and the fluid has been absorbed and the patient cured. But of course, for the success of such operations, it stands to reason that the active growth of the tumour must be at an end. (c) Operations for causing the tumour to waste and suppurate, or for draining away its contents, by tapping and injecting as in hydrocele ; or passing setons; or procuring adhesion of the cyst to the abdominal parietes, and establishing an ulcerated opening into the cyst at the adherent spot; or cutting into the cyst, and stitching the edges of the opening into it to those of the wound through the abdominal parietes ; lastly, Mr. I. B. Brown’s plan of salivation, tapping, and pressure. 3. Ovariotomy.—The remaining remedy then is extirpation. Against which may b'b adduced, 1st, the e.xtreme difficulty of diagnosis, inso- much that out of eighty-one cases collected by Mr. B. Phillips in 1844, in which it has been attempted, no tumour whatever was found in five, and in six others the tumour was not ovarian ; 2ndly, the fact that in fifteen out of the eighty-one cases, after the abdomen was opened, extirpation of the tumour was found impracticable, in conse- quence of the numerous adhesions which bound it to neighbouring parts ;* 3rdly, the mortality. Of the eighty-one cases, forty-nine recovered, thirty-two died. Of the sixty-one in which the tumour was extracted, thirty-five recovered, twenty-six died. Of the fifteen in which the tumour could not be extracted, nine recovered, and six died. On the other hand, in favour of the operation it may be argued ; 1 st, that the mortality arising from this is not larger than that from many other surgical operations ;f 2ndly, that no other plan of treatment can effect a radical cure ; 3rdly, that if favour- able cases only were submitted to operation, the mortality would be very small, and that increase of experience will lead to the selection and discrimination of favourable cases ; and lastly, that it is by far the most merciful plan of treatment, if adopted early, in ' Out of four patients operated on by Mr. Lizars some years ago, one died ; one recovered ; in one, after tlie aI)domen was laid open, there was found to be no tumour at all; and in tlje fourtli tiiere was discovered an enormous mass of convoluted vessels looking like a placenta, wliich proceeded from the omentum to the tumour, and of course rendered extirpation quite out of the question, so that the incision was quietly closed again. t Mr. Solly in a Lecture in the Med. Gaz. vol. xxxviii. states that the deaths from ovariotomy up to 1846 were only one in three and a lialf. Dr. Tilt, Lancet, 1848, yol. ii. p. 626, gives sixty-one cases, which occurred in the prac- tice ol live individuals. Of these, it was impo.ssiblo to remove tlie tumour in eleven, of which eleven, seven recovered and four died. Of lifty ca.ses in which the ovary was removed, thirty-seven recovered and tliirteen died, lint the statistics of the operation, including successful and unsuccessful cases, are yet wanting. IVo occasionally liear of an abdomen being lai<l open, and sewn up again, with a tumour impossible to remove, but these cases are not published so eagerly as more successful ones are.