INDOLENT ULCER. 75 6 edges of the sore sliould be drawn together with a moderate degree of (force. Next, a compress of soft linen should be placed over the [plaster, and finally, the limb should be well and evenly bandaged from t the toes to the knee ; observing that the bandage is to be applied I most tightly below, .and more loosely by degrees as it ascends. The frequency with which the dressings should be changed, must i depend on the state of the discharge ; for if that be profuse they • should be changed everj’ day ; otherwise from twice to four times a ■ week will suffice. One thing scarcely noticed by writers, but perhaps of more conse- I quence than most plasters, is the observance of perfect cleanliness. When it is considered how filthy the habits of many persons are, who I often leave their legs and feet unwashed for weeks and months to- 1 gethcr, it cannot be wondered that skin so neglected should, in the I decline of life, possess a very imperfect vitality ; and the author is I convinced by experience, that daily washing the lower limbs with a , piece of flannel and j’ellow soap and water, is one of the best means of I reviving their dec.ayed powers. During this plan of treatment, the patient may, after the first few days, walk about moderately ; but he should not stand about, nor sit with the leg hanging down. If the common strapping indtate the skin, the empl. plumbi, spread upon cheap thin split leather, or the isinglass plaster will answer better. But although the plastering and bandaging are adapted for most cases, the immediate application to the ulcer will require to be fre- quently varied. Sometimes the strapping may be applied without anj'- thing else ; or dry lint may be placed under it; or lint imbued with lotions of sidphate of copper, or alum; or with lotions made b}' adding half an ounce of the tincture of mynh, or of benzoin (comp.), or aloes (comp.), to four ounces of w.atcr ; or the balsams of copaiba or Peru ; but metallic preparations agree better in general than the vegetable. The author fancies that resinous lotions and ointments are best,