DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 280 the handle of a fork on the last molar teeth, and depress them with it using the upper teeth as a fulcrum. Or a piece of cork may be put between the molar teeth in order to act as a fulcrum, whilst the chin is elevated. After reduction, the chin must be confined for a week or two by a four-tailed bandage. II. Dislocations of the Clavicle.—The sternal extremity ai this bone may be dislocated forwards by blows on the shoulder. It can readily be felt on the anterior surface of the sternum. The treatment is in all respects the same as for fractured clavicle. Dislocation of this end of the bone backwards has been caused by curvature of the spine. It produced so much pressure on the oesophagus as to threaten starva- tion, and was in consequence extirpated by Mr. Davie of Bungay. There arc also a few cases on record of dislocation of this end of the clavicle backwards by violence. Pain and difficulty of breathing are the consequences ; the reduction and subsequent treatment the same as for the dislocation forwards.* The outer extremity of the clavicle may be dislocated uprvards on the acromion. The shoulder is sunken and flattened, and on tracing the spine of the scapula, the end of the clavicle can be felt upon the acromion. The outer extremity of the clavicle has also been known to be dislocated under the acromion by a kick from a horse on the shoulder.t The treatment is the same as for fracture of the clavicle. III. Dislocation of THE Shoulder-Joint may occur in three principal di- rections. The head of the humerus may be thrown downwards, forwards, and backwards; besides which it may be partially dislocated forwards and upwards. 1. In the dislocation downwards or intotheaxilla, which is the most common, the head of the bone rests on the axillary plexus of nerves, between the sub- scapularis muscles and the ribs. Symptoms.—The arm is lengthened; a hollow may be felt under the acromion, where the head of the bone ought to be; the shoulder seems flattened; the elbow sticks out from the side; and the head * Vide a case by M. Pollieux in the Revue M4dicale. Aug. 1834, p. lol, and another by Mr. Brown of Callington, Med. Gaz., Aug. 1, 1845. I Forbes's Rev. vol. vi. '