DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 500 in cases of stricture, or of obstinate costiveness with great accumula- tion of feces, or of incarcerated hernia, it is desirable to introduce a tube farther, it should be cjuite flexible like that of a stomach-pump. But the natural sharp fold at the junction of the rectum with the sigmoid flexure, and tlie fact shown by Mr. Earle that the bowel not unfrequently makes a horizontal curve to the right before descending into the pelvis, render the introduction of bougies into the sigmoid flexure a very blind, hazardous proceeding, and one that is not often to be justified. Moreover the surgeon must be on his guard lest he fall by inadvertence into an error, which some vile mercenary men daily commit on purpose. Tliat is to say, he must not pronounce his patient to have a stricture merely because the point of tlie bougie catches in the folds of the mucous membrane, or is obstructed by the promontory of the sacrum. XV. Simple Ulcer of the rectum is genenilly situated on its posterior surface, just above the sphincter, where it may be felt with a slightly indurated edge. It generally begins as a small crack or fissure of the mucous membrane, caused by straining to get rid of hardened fieces. It produces great pain and difficulty of defiecation; more or less discharge, occasionally tinged with blood, and irrimtion of the bladder. Treuiment.—Laxatives, enemaUi of warm water, to which a little laudanum may be added when there is much pain, and the applica- tion of a solution of ai'g. nit. to the ulcer, or the introduction of tents of lint smeared with mercurial ointment, which failing, the sphincter must be divided and made to heal by granulation. XVI. Malignant Disease of the rectum is usually of the scirrhous variety, and situated at first about two or three inches above- the anus. It may either commence as a distinct'tumour, or as an in- filtration of some part of the walls of the bowel. The earliest syni])- toms are uneasiness in the rectum, with a sense as if some fiecal matter had lodged there ; aching and pain in the back hips and thighs, and irritation of the bladder. As the disease advances, the bowel be- comes more or less obstructed; there is frequent discharge of a fetid muco-purulent matter streaked with blood; and there is a most ob- stinate constipation, attended with enormous swelling of the abdomen, and sometimes with all the sj'inptoms of strangulated hernia; but this may alternate with the most profuse and exhausting diarrluea. Ab- scesses about the rectum, opening perhaps into the bladder or vagina, aggravate the patient’s misery, and death ensues from exhaustion, or from peritonitis, or perhaps from rupture of the distended bowels. This disease is to be distinguished bj' examination with the finger, or with the speculum ; which will detect hardening and ulceration, or perhaps fungating tumours blocking up tlie gut.* * In a case related to the .author by Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, ulceration of the anus, of the worst sjqihilitic character, Laid open the peritomeuin between the rectum and vagina: a portion of omentum protruded: it was imperfectly replaced, a.s it was supi)o.sed, naturally enough, to be a prolaiise of the rectum, and the patient died with symptoms of strangulation.