DISEASES OF THE BONES. 222 an obscurely granular substance, arranged in concentric laminae around longitudinal canals (viz. the Haversian canals which contain the nu- trient blood-vessels). The laminae are separated by circular rows of mi- nute cavities or cells, having fine canaliculi running from them, as shown in the preceding figure. In diseased bone, the only changes that have been recognised are variations of plus and minus;—that is to say, in bone that is condensed and hardened by inflammation, the Haver- sian canals are small, the laminae well defined, and the cells numerous. In bone, on the contrary, that is loosened out and rendered spongj', and that has its visible cancelli enlarged under disease, the Haversian canals are seen under the microscope to be greatly enlarged, and the bone cells and laminae disappear. This is the case in caries, and in that part of the bone where the chink of separation is situated in necrosis or exfoliation, as sho\vn in the next figure. In mollities ossium the bone cells are enlarged, according to Mr. Dalrymple.* Absoiption of Bone.—The mechanism by which dead bone is separated from living, has afforded materials for ample discussion. What is known positively on the subject may perhaps be comprised under these three heads. 1. All evidence is against the supposition that dead bone can be absorbed, or can be dissolved by pus. t The honeycombed appearance of sequestra does not arise from an absorp- tion of any part of the bone after its death, but from changes which occurred in it before its vitality ceased. 2. There is no evidence that bone is removed by the lymphatic or absorbent vessels. 3. Bone, to be absorbed, must possess vitality, and must be in contact with a highly vascular structure. And thus' the separation of a portion of dead bone is produced by the absorption of that layer of the living bone which is nearest to it; which absorption is efiected by means of a vascular production re- sembling ordinary granulations. Under the microscope, the Haver- sian canals are seen to be enlarged. And to the naked eye, the can- celli are enlarged (see the next figure), so that (to use Miescher''s words) “a sort of diplo'c is produced, the cells of which are filled with a soft reddish substance. The walls of the cells become daily thinner and thinner, till at length the living and dead bone are no longer connected by bony substance and when the dead part is removed, the living appears covered with a layer of highly vascular granulation, through whose agency the living bone has no doubt been absorbed, although we cannot believe that it has the power of absorbing the dead.§ * 'Vide Dalrj-mple on the Microscopical Characters of Mollities Ossium, quoted in Lancet, Sept. 19, 1846. t For ample proof of this, see Mr. Gulliver’s paper in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxi. I Miescher, quoted in South’s Chelius, vol. i. p. 692. ^ For the fullest infonnation on the structure of liealthy bone, refer to Mr. Tonies’s paper on Osseous Tissue in Dr. Todd’s Cyclopa;dia of Anatomy and Phy- siolog)', and to his Lectures on Dental Physiology and Surgery in the Lend. Mod. Gaz. vol. xxxvii. The author has to thank Mr. Tomes for the three drawings which illustrate this subject, as well as for very much useful information.