EEYSIPELAS. C7 Opium maj' be given in full doses at bed-time in the later stages, to allay restlessness, provided tliere is no cerebral congestion nor coma. If there is great irritation of the stomach, witli sickness or diarrhoea, small repeated doses of hydr. c. creta et pulv. ipec. c. should be given with etfervescing draughts, F. G4,58; and fomentations or rubefacients be applied to the abdomen. And in wliat may be called chronic or habitual erysipelas, when it comes on at intervals, when the stomach is disordered, or the general health deranged, a course of aperients, alteratives, and tonics (especi- filly sarsaparilla and alkalis) should be administered according to the principles laid down in the Chapter on Chronic Inflammation. Locai. jMeasures.—Leeches arc useful in the early stages, provided the patient can boar the loss of blood. jMiimte punctures about one- fifth of an inch deep, made with the point of a lancet, may be used as substitutes; and often permit the discharge of considerable quanti- ties of blood and serum. Cold lotions may be used when the heat is great, the redness vivid, and the pulse good. But warm or tepid poppy fomentations will generally bo found more soothing, and theo- retically are safer than cold applications. Flour, dusted on the inflamed part, or soft carded cotton wool, is often very soothing in simple eiysipelas. Pressure by bandages is servicettble in the latter stage of most cases ;—and from the very first, if the inflammation be atonic and oedematous. Mercurial ointment smeared on the part, or applied as a plaster, has been much praised by some people, but its efficacy is questionable. Stimulants.—The nitrate of silver in substance or solution ; or blisters, or fomentation of dec. cydonii oj. cum. liti. am. sesquicarb. 5j. are of great use in putting a stop to tedious erratic cases of simple erysipelas, after proper constitutional remedies have been used. In similar cases, the extension of the disease may sometimes be ar- rested by applying a strip of blistering plaster, or still bettor, the nitrate of silver, so as completely to encircle the inflamed part. The skin should be well washed first, and care should be taken to leave no interstices through which the disease might creep aiid e.xtend itself. When there is a tendency to sinking, with diminution or dis- appearance of the external inflammation, warm cloths, moistened with turpentine or sp. camp, may be applied externally, whilst diffusive stimulants are administered internally. Incisions are, to use a French expression, the heroic remedy in phlegmonous erysipelas. When the swelling is great, and increases rapidly;—when it is hard, tense, and resisting, not soft and cedema- tous as in simple erysipelas;—when the pain is severe, and throbbing, and not relieved by leeches;—when there is the least sensation of fluc- tuation or (juayyiness ; or when the skin is becoming livid or dusky, or covered with livid vesicles, they are imperatively demanded. They are absolutely necessary for the discharge of pus and sloughs;—for, a's James observes, these matters are neither brought to the surface by