NEURALGIA. 32G (especially F. 145, 151), or tartar emetic ointment applied in the course of the nerve, combined with proper constitutional remedies, may effect a cure. The head, and particularly the spine, should be well scrutinized (vide Spinal Irritation, chap. xi.). The condition of the great secreting organs, as well as of the stomach, uterus, and rec- tum, should also be ascertained, in order to make sure that a morbid condition of one of these parts is not the real source of the evil ; and if any pain or tenderness, or other genuine sign of congestion or dis- ease, is detected, it should be removed by cupping, the warm bath and blisters, or the tartar emetic ointment. SecoTully. The state of the constitution must be regulated in the same manner as was directed in the treatment of chronic inflamma- tion. If there are paleness of the lips, emaciation, and debility, iron, bark, and other tonics, may be given with advantage. Inquiry should always be made in these cases for piles, menorrhagia, or other weak- ening ailments. On the other hand, bleeding and low diet have cured cases attended with hard, full pulse and plethora. In all cases, the appetite, the tongue, the biliary and alvine secretions, <and the state of the uterine system, should be investigated. In the brow ague and other cases arising from malaria, quinine should be freely adminis- tered; and if it fails, the liq. arsenicalis, or the extract of nux vomica, in doses of gr. \ ter die, may be tried. In cases of a rheumatic or gouty character, colchicum, F. 70, &c., may be of service. Asafcetida with aloetic purgatives and valerian may be given if there are hyste- rical symptoms, and sarsaparilla with iodide of potassium, and perhaps with smalt doses of mercury if the malady has followed syphilis, or if there is any reason to suspect thickening of the bones of the skull. But all lowering remedies, and especially mercury, should be used ivith the utmost care and hesitation. Thirdly; but if no cause whatever can be detected; or if when detected it cannot be removed ; or if, as frequently happens, even though removed, its removal fail to cure the disease, an empirical and 2>alliative plan of treatment is the only resource. A course of purya- tives, especially the croton oil, in doses of 11] ter die; tonics, espe- cially the carbonate of iron, and oxide or sulphate, or valerianate of zinc ; any remedies, in fact, that have been known to do good, may be tried in succession ; taking care, however, not to impair the con- stitution by giving them at random. Opium, morphia, hyoscyamus, belladonna, conium, stramonium, or prussic acid, given internally; friction with ointments, or alcoholic solutions of veratria, strychnia, or aconitina (5ss ad Ji)—sprinkling gr. ^—§ of morphia or strychnia, on a newly blistered surface; or making a dozen punctures in the course of the nerve and inoculating a concentrated solution of these alkaloids under the cuticle—galvanism, acupuncture, issues, and the moxa, generally afford some relief, and sometimes completely cure. Division of the nerve, with or without excisio?i of a portion, is the last and a very bad resource. It may produce instant ease,—this, how- ever, lasts but a short time; and the oftener it is repeated, the more