IRIUTABLE ULCER. 73 Treatment.—In a few instances, when the patient is very plethoric and strong, it may he expedient to bleed, and to administer calomel, . antimony, and opium, till the mouth is slightly affected. In all cases, I reiterated doses of active purgatives should be given, the urine be t examined, and the diet be regulated. The patient should be kept in I bed, with the limb raised on a pillow, and covered only with a sheet, 1 in an elevated posture. The part should be fomented night and I morning for half an hour with poppy fomentations, and then a poultice ■ or the water-dressing be applied, or the steam-bath described at p. 41 I may be tried ;—and if the pain be very severe, the poultice may be (medicated with opium (F. 157), or conium or poppj'. If the dis- t charge be very offensive, a weak lotion of chloride of lime, or chloride (of zinc, may be applied on lint under the poultice. If the ulcer (diminish under these applications, but yet its surface remain foul, t they may be continued till it is healed ; but if the surface become Hiealthy, it may be treated as an ordinary ulcer.—If wann applications aaggravate the pain, cold evaporating, or saturnine lotions (F. 115, &c.) s should be used, the sore being protected by a piece of oiled silk or simple dressing ; or it may be irrigated after the plan described at p. 40. If all these soothing measures prove ineffectual, as they occa- ssionally will, even though aided by the most judicious constitutional t treatment, recourse must be had to the measm’es directed for irritable i ulcers. III. The Irrit.4ble Ulcer is a variety of the inflamed. The i granulations are small, and are morbidly sensitive and vascular. Treatment.—In the first place, the constitution, which is generally (out of order, must be corrected by alteratives and tonics. Plummer’s [pill, or F. 02, 63, 64, at bedtime ; and sarsaparilla, soda, and hyos- (cyamus, F. 02, &c., during the day ; or the extract of conium in doses of gr. V., ter die, will be of great service. In the local treatment, all sources of irritation must be removed, and the soothing applications directed for the inflamed ulcer may be t tried first. But the most successful plan, generally speaking, is the application of a succession of mild stimulants, so as to alter the actions . and exhaust the irritability of the part. Weak lotions of nitric acid (F. 116), of nitrate of silver (gr. i. ad jj.), of arsenic (F. 124), of sul- ! phate of zinc (gr. i.—v. ad 5].), of sulphate of copper (gr. i.—ii. ad Jj.), of acetate of zinc (F. 136), of corrosive sublimate (F. 141), of (chloride of soda, of iodine (F. 90), the linimentum mruginis, black ' wash (F. 125), yellow wash (F. 126), lime water, solution of sulphate of iron (gr. i. ad ^]-)t forge ivater, that is, water in which red-hot iron I has been extinguished, strong green tea, powdered chalk or charcoal I mixed with cream, ointments of Peruvian balsam, of oxide of zinc, (chalk, lead, and calamine; weak mercurial ointment, liniment of I ung. hj'dr. nitratis ; moderate pressure with strips of soap plaster, (or of linen spread with soap cerate, or with a smooth piece of sheet 1 lead ; all these measures will occasionally be of service in the cure of obstinate and irritable ulcers. For it very often happens that an ap-