269 ARTICULAR CARIES. dered unconscious of it by chloroform.* For children, blisters answer very well ; and it is better to keep one blister open than to apply a succession of them. Sir B. Brodie has shown, that issues, when long established, sometimes irritate the constitution, bringing on a return of the pain which they relieved at first, and which will again depart if they are healed up. It is a practical rule, therefore, to give them up for a time, before condemning a joint to amputation. The oint- ment of Scott, applied as described in a preceding page, will often be found a useful auxiliary to time and quietude. 4. Mercury should be given so as to affect the system ; Sir B. Brodie believes that the iidministration of mercury in ulceration of cartilage is one of the greatest improvements in modern surgery.'f- 5. If the patient is unable to take mercur}' to the above extent, sarsaparilla and the iodide of potassium, F. 82, with small alterative doses of mercury, F. 63, may be tried ; and in all cases the general health must be maintained by tonics, change of air, &c., and pain be allayed by opiates. 6. When abscess forms, there need be no haste in opening it; but if the skin becomes very much distended, it may be punctured, and the part be wrapped in a fomentation cloth, so that the matter may gently exude. No rough squeezing is ,admissible. If the puncture heals, another may be made when necessary—if it remains open, it should be made large enough to let the matter flow out freely as soon as it is secreted. The case must then be treated according to the directions for abscess in joints. SECTIO.V V.—ARTICULAR CARIES. Caries of the head op .-v bone is not an uncommon cause of ulceration of the adjacent cartilage and disorganization of the joint. The affected bone is found to be soft, rod, and vascu- + lar, and deficient in earthy matter, so that it is easily cut or crushed ; its cancelli are filled with a reddish fluid, and in scrofulous cases a cheesy matter is deposited in them. Owing to this softened state of the bone, the cartilage peels off from it readily. When peeled off, its under surface is probably found ulcerated ; and be- tween it and the bone there is a small quantity of highly vascular * Refer to the Index. f Lectures, Mod. Gaz. vol. xxxvii. ^ This cut extiit)it.s carie.s of the astragalus, with incipient separation of the cartilage, hrom the King’s College Museum. The next shows a state approaching to $pina verUosa.