FRACTURES OP THE FEMUR. 250 The above symptoms are liable to considerable diversity arising from accidental variations in the manner in which the fracture occurred. Thus (a) the amount of shortening (whicli was stated by Sir A. Cooper at from one to two inches) depends on the degree to which the fibrous investment of the neck is lacerated. If that membrane be not much injured the shortening may be much less than an inch ; moreover, it is doubtful, according to Dr. Smith, whether the capsular ligament, if entire, would permit the limb to be drawn upwards for more than an inch. Again, if the fibrous investment of the neck be not torn, or if the fracture be very oblique, so that the upper opposes ttie ascent of the lower fragment, or if the lower be driven into and impacted in the upper fragment, there may be no immediate shortening at all. (4). The time at ichich shortening occurs may vary. Sometimes it is very slight at first, but becomes very decided in a fhv dags, when the muscles doubtless have recovered from the paralyzing effects of the injury. Sometimes, in an obscure case of fracture, the limb retains its natural length for a few days or weeks, and then suddenlg shortens, whilst the patient is attempting to walk : doubtless because the attempt has caused the laceration of some untorn fibres of the periosteal in- vestment of the cervix, which before held the fractured parts in appo- sition. In other cases the limb graduallg shortens to the extent of one or two inches during the six months succeeding the injury. This is owing to interstitial aborption of the neck of the femur. (c). The position of the limb is sometimes anomalous; being inverted in a few cases. {d). In some cases the neck of the bone is driven into, and impacted firmly within the cancellous tissue of the head ; a circumstance which of course renders it difficult to say whether the injury be one of fracture or of mere contusion. The chief characters of this injury are those summed up by Dr. Smith. “ 1. Slight shortening of the limb. 2. Slight eversion of the foot. 3. Absence of crepitus. 4. Great diffi- culty in all cases, and in the majority an impossibility of removing the shortening of the limb by extension; and, lastly, less loss of power than in other forms of fracture of the neck of the femur.” Prognosis.—This fracture does not unite b}' bone, except in the rare instances in which the broken surfaces are held closely together by the untorn periosteum, or by impaction; or in which the fracture is p:irtly internal and partly external to the capsular ligament. In such cases there is no doubt that bony union may occur; but in the majoritj' the fracture either unites by ligament, or, more commonly, does not unite at all; but the stump of the cervix becomes rapidly absorbed, rounded, and covered with a smooth porcellaneous deposit, and plays in a socket formed by the hollowing and absorption of the head. The capsular ligament becomes excessivclj' thick, and so does the obturator externus muscle, so as to support the weight of the body. The reason of this non-union is, doubtless, the want of apposition and of pressure of the fractured surfaces against each other; to which may be added the age