.51.5 DISEASES OP THE BLADDER. Herbert Barker, of Reading, by means of an incision in the perinmnm. It was composed of twenty-nine calculi closely adhering together, each no doubt having been de- posited in a separate cell of the prostate, and the whole having been agglomerated into one mass by the absorption of the interven- ing tissue.+ VI. SciRRHUs of the prostate is a disease of very rare occurrence. In one or two cases which oc- curred in Sir B. Brodie’s practice, the gland was enlarged, and of a stony hardness; tliere was great pain referred to the groins and pcrinajum, and irritability of the bladder, and the real nature of the disease was shown by the cancerous cachexia m.onifest in the patient’s whole appearance. SECTION VI.—OF THE DISEASES OP THE BLADDER. I. Acute Inflammation of the bladder (or cj/stilis) is rarely a primary idiopathic affection. Most frequently it is a consequence of neglected or ill-treated gonorrhoea, or else an aggravation of the chronic inflammation. The symploim are pain, referred to the peri- nmum and sacrum, tenderness of the lower part of the abdomen, micturition exceedingly frequent, attended with great straining, and followed by an aggravation of the pain, a mucous or muco-purulent sediment in the urine, and fever. Treatment-—Leeches or cupping on the lower part of the abdomen orperimeum, hip-baths and warm fomentations, castor oil, so as to keep the bowels open without much straining, and opium F. 101 at night. If, moreover, the urine is acid (turning blue litmus paper red), and if the sediment in it is yellowish and not adhesive, F. 62 may be given three or four times a day, with saline draughts containing excess of alkali in the intervals. But if the urine be alkaline (turning red litmus paper blue), and if it deposit a dark-coloured adhesive mucus, vin. colchici ll\xx—xxx should be given three or four times a day instead of the calomel and alkalis. II. C HRONic Inflammation of the bladder {catarrhus vesica;) is a very frequent consequence of irritation from stricture, diseased prostate, or stone. • T)ie engraving shows a cyst of the prostate gland, from the King’s Coilege Collection. f Trans, of Prov. Jled. Assoc. N. S. vol. iii.