403 ACCUMULATIONS OF WAX. st.intly covered with a bran poultice (F. 152). If the pain and headache are very severe, leeches may be applied to the mastoid process. When the p.ain and fever are removed, and the chronic stage has set in, the treatment must be conducted in the same manner as that of any other chronic mucous inflammation in scrofulous constitutions. The general health must be improved by tonics, alteratives, and ape- rients ; and by warm baths (cold bathing is almost sure to be in- jurious) ; and the local disease must be treated by the cautious use of stimulants and astringents. The ear should be twice daily very gently syringed out with white soap and water ; and immediately afterwards y a weak solution of alum or sulphate of zinc (gr. j. ad 3i.), or a lotion containing two drachms of liq. plumbi diacet. to half a pint of distilled water, may be dropped into the meatus till it is filled, and after re- m.aining there two or three minutes, be allowed to nm out. The lotions should be used tepid. The best instrument for syringing the ear in these cases is an elastic ^ bottle ; and we may observe, that this operation should always be done as delicately as possible, without hurting the meatus with the nozzle of the pipe, and without forcing in bubbles of air. If the discharge is very fetid, a lotion of two drachms of solution of chloride of lime to half a pint of water may be used; and if the case is obstinate, the whole interior of the meatus may be pencilled twice a week with a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. v. ad 5!.), by means of a camel’s hair pencil. If the discharge, as sometimes happens, causes e.xcoriation of the auricle or of the neck, these parts must be first fomented, and then smeared with an ointment of hyd. praecip. alb. But it seems .advisable not—as a general rule—to insert ointments into the meatus. If at any time during the treatment, an attack of acute pain and fever should come on, and the disch.arge should stop suddenly, leeches, purgatives, and fomentations must be resorted to, and all astringent applications be abandoned till these acute symptoms have subsided. We may observe in this place that the surgeon should be constantly on his guard against the dangerous practice of plugging the meatus with cotton, which many persons do from a belief in its virtues, whilst some laz3' parents do it in order to save trouble, and prevent the dis- V charge from soiling the child’s clothes. It is never justifiable, how- ever, to put cotton into the meatus; but if it be desirable to protect the ear from cold, a little bit may be put loosely into the concha. III. Accu.mulations of Wax.—In persons of dark oilj' com- plexion, the ear is apt to become completely filled with wax mixed with flakes of cuticle and innumerable hairs. This should be removed from time to time by gently syringing with warm soap and water. We may observe that the ear bears water that is rather hot; and that a little cotton should be put into the concha after the opera- tion. Sj'ringing the ear, however, is not a thing to be done without consideration, because when the membrana tyinpani is inflamed, and