TOOTHACHE. 429 .AfVv laid that open, it may be necessaiy first, to use some applications to deaden the sensibility of the tooth, so as to enable it to Ijear the stop- ping, and to protect it meanwhile from contact with food and saliva. For these purposes the best plan is, to fill the cavity with a bit of cotton wool, dipped in a solution of mastic in Eau de Cologne, or in alcohol: or in solution of gutta percha in chloroform: vide F. 183. By these means the tooth may verj' probably be brought into a state to bear stopping with gold. The patient should avoid exposure to cold, errors in diet, and drinking verj^ hot, or cold, or sweet, or acid fluids. V. Toothache.—When the cavity of a tooth has been laid bare by caries, the delicate nervous pulp contained in it, is extremely liable to pain from contact with the liquids of the mouth; and if the health be at all out of order, or if it be much irritated, it is liable to acute inflammation, with most agonizing toothache. Treatment.—believe the best treatment for this kind of tooth- ache to be as follows :—let the patient have an aperient dose ; confine him to spoon diet; let him wash out the mouth with a solution of carbonate of soda in water; let the gum around the tooth, and between it and its neighbours, if tumid, or tender, be deeply scarified with a fine lancet ; then let the cavity be filled loosely with a little bit of cotton dipped into the solution of tannin and mastic, F. 183; and if the toothache is curable at all, this plan, with a little patience, will be almost sure to succeed. If the pain is very violent, half a grain of powdered acetate of morphia may be taken up with the cotton imbued with the tannin ; which should be wanned before it is put into the cavity. In some few cases, a whiff of chloroform will lull the pain. As soon as the pain is relieved, the tooth if of use should be stopped with gold or amalgam ; if of no use, it should be extracted. Other remedies occasionally of service are, icarm poultices to the cheek ; sialugoyiies, especially a little piece of pellitory chewed ; ano- dynes. especially warm poppy decoction held in the mouth ; or a full dose of Battley’s Liq. op. sed. at bed-time, if the bowels have been well cleared : stiimdant, escharotic and astringent substances intro- duced into the cavity of the tooth, such as a drop of strong solution of nitrate of silver, or solution of alum or of tannin ; respecting which last substance the author is most grateful to acknowledge the benefit he has derived from it, since it was introduced by his friend Mr. Tomes. It may be added, that most of the violent, burning, empirical nostrums, such as creosote, oil of thyme, &c., although they may be of service when introduced in small quantity by a skilful hand into the carious tooth, at the right time, yet that when employed indiscriminately, as they are by the vulgar, they can do nothing but mischief. It may be remarked that the gum in the interstice between a decayed tooth and its neighbour, often becomes spongy, and swelled, and excessively sensitive; giving rise to a very weai'ing kind of tooth-