528 STONE IN THE BLADDER. of the Stone throuch the ureter, by diluents and diuretics ; and by the cautious use of exercise so as to dislodge it; and, thirdly, to remove inflammation and pain by cupping on the loins (if the habit is inflam- matory), by mild aperients and copious enemata of warm water, by opium or henbane, and by warm baths or fomentations. Pounded ice applied to the loins gives great relief when much burning pain is complained of; but it must be used with caution. The ordinary and most favourable event of renal calculus is, that it descends through the ureter into the bladder. In some cases, how- ever, it remains in the kidney, increases in size, completely fills up the pelvis and infundilnila, and causes the organ either to waste away or to suppurate; the abscess bursting either into the colon, or on the loins. The Pa.ssage of a Stone through the Ureter causes the following symptoms :—The patient complains of sudden and most severe pain, first in the loins and groin, subsequently in the testicle .and inside of the thigh. The testicle is also retracted spasmodically. At the same time, there are violent sickness, faintness, and collapse, which may last two or three d.ays, and arc only relieved when the stone reaches the bladder. Treatment.—The warm bath, large doses of opium, emollient ene- mata, and plenty of diluents, arc the obvious remedies, and an active purgative may perhaps be tried if the process is slow. Sir B. Brodie has shown that there is a set of symptoms which frequently affect gouty people—consisting of pain in the loins reaching to the groin and neck of the bladder; and scanty, high-coloured urine —which very much resemble those c.aused by the passing of a stone through the ureter. They may be distinguished by the absence of faintness and vomiting, and readily yield to purgatives and colchicum. SECTION XI.—OF STONE IN THE BLADDER. Stone in the Bladder produces the following .'ym/j/oms; 1. Ir- ritability of the bladder, frequent irresistible desire to m.ake water. 2. Occasional sudden stoppage of the stream of water during micturi- tion, from the stone falling on the orifice of the urethra; the stream probably flowing again if the patient throws himself on his hands and knees. 3. Occasional pain at the neck of the bladder, always se- verest after micturition. 4. Pain in the glans penis. If the patient be a child, he is always attempting to alleviate this pain by pulling at the frcenuin, which becomes extremely elongated. 5. Sounding. But none of the above symptoms must be depended on .alone. The exist- ence of the stone must be made sensible to the ear and fingers by means of a sound, a solid iron rod like a catheter, but not so curved, and with a polished handle. This should be introduced, the patient lying on his back, the pelvis raised on a pillow, and the bladder neaidy, but not ([uite, full. In order to ensure perfect quietness, and to prevent pain to the patient, he should be put under the influence of