WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 297 Liqnture.—When a ligature is tied tightly upon an artery, it divides the middle and internal coats, leaving the external or cellular coat enclosed in the knot. Then the following series of phenomena occurs. The cut edges of the internal coats unite by adhesion ; the blood between the point tied and the nearest collateral branch coagulates and adheres to the lining membrane; the ring of the cellular coat enclosed in the ligature ulcerates ; the ligature comes away in from five to twenty-one days, (sooner or later, according to the size of the vessel), and, finally, that portion of the artery, which is filled with coagulum shrinks into a fibrous cord. Now it must be observed that the efficacy of the ligature depends on two things. 1st. On the adhesion of the cut surfaces of the internal coats of the artery; and in order to promote this, the liyature should he small and round, so as to divide them smoothly and evenly,* and in tying it, the artery should be disturbed as little as pos- sible ; in order not to tear through the vessels which it receives from its sheath, and on which the nutrition of its coats, and their capacity for adhe- sion, depend. 2ndly. On the adhesion and oiyankation of the blood in the artery between the part tied and the nearest branch. Hence the rule is generally given, not to tic an artery immediately below a branch, if it can be avoided.+ When, however, the arterj- is diseased and britlle, the ligature should bo large, and not tied so tightly ; otherwise it may cut through entirely; or else a small portion of the adjoining tissue must be in- cluded in the knot. The manner of tying an artery is simple enough. If the wound is large and open, as after an amputation, the orifice will generally be readily seen, and very likely will project a little. It should be taken hold of with a forceps, and be gently drawn out, and then an assistant should tie a ligature round it as tightly and smoothlj- as possible in a double or treble knot. If the bleeding orifice cannot be drawn out • J. r. D. .Tones, M.I)., Tre-itiso on H.x>morrh<ige and the Ligature. Lond. 1805. t The author docs not believe this circumstance to bo of such gre.at import- ance as it is sometimes thouglit; and agrees witli Mr. Porter, that when secondaiy liannorrhage occurs, it is more froiiucntly owing to some morbid state of the artery or of tlie system, wliicli has prevented the liealthy process of obli- teration, tlian to the place or mode of application of tlio iigature. Vide Porter on Aneurism.