228 FRACTURE. between. This is exemplified in the case of fracture of the clavicle from a fall on the shoulder. The sternal end of the bone is impelled by the weight of the body, and the acromial end by the object it falls against; and the bone, acted upon by these two forces, gives way in the middle. Sometimes fracture is partial, part of the fibres only breaking, and the rest bonding. The bones most commonly fractured by muscular action are the patella and olecranon; but the humerus, femur, or any other bone, may give w.ay from this cause, if preternaturally weak. Predisposing Causes.—There are certain circumstances which render the bones more liable than usual to be broken. These are 1. The atrophy arising from old age, or from prolonged disuse of any limb. 2. Certain diseases, as mollities ossewm and cancer. 3. Original Conformation ; the bones of some people being exceedingly brittle, without any assignable cause. Reparation.— The first week, after fracture, is a period of re- pose ; little or no change taking place, except the effusion of small quantities of lymph and serum, and the dis- persion of the blood which has been extrava- sated in consequence of the injury. After this, lymph is effused between the fragments, and gradually becomes converted into bone: whe- ther it is developed into fibrous tissue before ossifying is doubtful. The ossification of lymph, situated between, and adherent to, the broken fragments, accomplishes, of course, the union of the fracture, which may be completed in a space of time varying from three to eight weeks ; the time required being so much the less, in proportion as the patient is younger and healthier, and especially if the fracture is nicely adjusted, and kept at perfect rest. If the broken ends are accurately adjusted together, the reparative material is simply de- posited between them ; if not, it fills up angu- lar interspaces and constitutes a hard lump or callus, as shown in the adjacent cut. Bones differ very materially in their powers of reparation after injury. Thus after fracture of the acromio7i, olecranon, or patella, or of any other bone invested with synovial membrane, the greatest difficulty is experienced in producing bony union, unless the broken parts are kept in the very strictest apposition. Complete fracture of the cervix feraoris intenial to the cap- sular ligament can hardly be considered, practically speaking, as sus- ceptible of union ; and if portions of the skull be removed, the gap is not filled up.* • Some uncertainty still prevails, as to the true doctrine of the reparation of fractures in the human subject. The common doctrine tliat fractures are first