611 CHLOROFORM. But the experiment of Wells at Boston, fatal as its results were to himself, was not altogether devoid of fruit. W. G. T. Morton, had been a pupil and partner of Wells, and afterwards settled in Boston, where he studied medicine and chemistry for a short time under Dr. Charles T. Jackson, and then practised as a dentist. He was the person who introduced Wells to the'Medical Society of Boston, and a share of the ridicule attached to the unsuccessful experi- ment, fell upon his shoulders. It appears that the idea of finding some means of extracting teeth without pain occupied the attention of both Morton and Jackson, and was the subject of conversation be- tween them. Morton learned from Jackson the use of chloric ether as a local application to aching teeth. Both had read in Pereira''s work on Alateria Medica, that the vapour of sulphuric aether was in- haled in spasmodic asthma, chronic catarrh, and hooping cough, and to relieve the effects caused by the inhalation of chlorine gas. In fact, for these purposes, the inhalation of ether, pure, or medicated with conium or other substances, was a well known and not uncom- mon remedy, and had been spoken of by various authors from the time of Beddoes and Richard Pearson* in the latter end of the eigh- teenth century. Jackson himself had inhaled ether to relieve the irritation caused by accidentally breathing chlorine gas. JMoHon's Discovery.—But the merit of first cmplojnng the inha- lation of ether in such a way as to produce a decided and control- lable state of insensibility to the jjain of surgical operations, is undoubtedly due to iMorton. He first made several experiments on himself, with imperfect success, arising from the great difficulty of procuring ether sufficiently pure ; but having at last, on the 30th of September, 1846, by inhaling it from a flask through a glass tube, succeeded in making himself unconscious, he determined to try the experiment on the first fit subject that presented himself, and the very same evening, a man. Ebon H. Frost by name, having applied to have a tooth extracted, and being wonderfully timid, and wishing to be mesmerised in order that he might feel no pain, he was easily per- suaded to inhale some ether from a handkerchief. He soon became unconscious, and Morton extracted a bicuspid tooth, the patient know- ing nothing of the operation till he recovered his senses, and saw the tooth lying on the floor. A Dr. Hayden who held the lamp for the operator, and one Tenny a journalist, were witnesses of the fact, and together with the patient, immediately drew up and signed a docu- ment attesting it. And so, a new era in surgery began with the painless extraction of Frost’s tooth by Morton, at 18, Tremont’s Row, Boston, at nine in the evening of the 30lh of September, 1846. Morton lost no time in prosecuting the discovery he had made, although he did not at first disclose the nature of the agent em- ployed. He continued to make experiments at his own house, and having made the subject known to Dr. M''arren, was permitted to * Short Account of Dilferont Kinds of Airs, so far as relates to their Medi- cinal Use, by iliehard Pearson, M.D. Binningliain, 1796.