562 KNOCK KNEES.—BUNION. .too soon. It is more common amongst girls than boj's—partly from ftheir greater delicacy—partly because they are taught at an early age |by ignorant governesses and dancing masters, that it is necessary for Ithen to turn their feet out as much as possible, as the verj' first step Itowards elegance in dancing or walking. Thirty years ago it was a Vommon practice to make school girls sit for an hour every day in a kind of stocks, with their feet turned outwards so as to be almost in a 4traight line with each other. Children, however, if left to nature, ptand with their toes slightly turned inwards—the position iiT IwTich is the firmest, and most calculated to prevent tliis distortira Whilst the bones are yet soft and yielding. V Treatment.—The patient should wear shoes or boots with high heels, and with the inner edge of the sole much thicker than the outer. He should also be directed to turn the foot out very little, if at all. Bene- fit may also be derived from a well-applied bandage, such as is repre- sented at p. 75. It should always be applied so as to be carried round the ankle from the inner side of the foot. In severe cases the patient should wear a tightly fitting boot with a piece of steel or whalebone fastened to the sole, and passing perpendicularly upwards to the middle of the inner side of the leg. III. Knock Knees are treated by Mr. Lonsdale on the same principles as the crooked ricketty leg; by adapting a long well-padded splint to the outer side of each limb, fastening it below by straps and buckles at the outer ankles, and above by a broad belt, to which both .splints are attached, and which is buckled round the body at the level of the hollow part of the loins. The splints should be hindered from coming too far forwards, and should bear well against the trochanter and outer ankle. Meanwhile, the knee is to be drawn into its proper place by a band, buckled over it, and wide enough to embrace both the head of the tibia, and condyles of the femur.* IV. Contraction of the Toes.— It often happens that one of the toes is permanently elevated, and rides over its neighbours, from the habitual use of narrow boots; and the upper surface of this toe being peculiarly exposed to friction, is generally covered with corns so pain- ful, that many persons have been compelled to have the part amputated. Division of the extensor tendon may, however, enable the toe to be brought down into its place, and prevent the necessity of its removal. V. Bunion.—A bunion signifies a distortion of the metatarsal joint of the great toe ;”vvliich is thrown outwards, so that the head of the metatarsal bone projects and forms a swelling on the inner side of the foot. The skin covering it is generally very thin; sometimes, how- ever, thickened from inflammation, or from the development of a bursa underneath. This affection is produced, partly by the use of tight .boots, which cramp the toes together, and force the great toe outwards, I in order to make the foot, fashionably pointed ; and it is partly a con- .sequence, as Mr. Key has'‘sliown, of alv-eak, flattened state of the foot, which throws the extremity of that metatarsal bone forward, and » Lonsdale, Med. Gaz., June, 1849.