139 CHxVPTER VI. OF THE EFFECTS OF COLD. j Effect.s of Severe Cold.—When a person is exposed to very severe cold, especially if it be accompanied with wind,—or if it be during the night,—or if he have been exhausted by hunger, watch- ing, and fatigue, he feels almost an irresistible impulse to sleep, which if yielded to, is soon succeeded by coma and death. During the state of coma, the bod}" of the sufferer is found to be very pale and cold : the respiration and pulse almost imperceptible, and the pupils dilated; but the limbs are flexible as long as life remains, unless the degree of cold be very great indeed. On a post morlein examination, the chief morbid appearances observed are great venous congestion and serous effusion in the head. Frost-bite.—But if the trunk of the body be well protected, the cold may affect only some exposed part, such as the nose, ears, or extremities. The first visible effect is, that the part becomes of a dull red colour;—an effect of cold which is notoriously frequent, and which Spends on a diminution of the quantity of blood conveyed by the • ' arteries, and a stagnation of it in the veins. If the cold continue, the venous blood will be gradually expelled by a contraction of the tissues, and the part will become of a livid, tallowy paleness, perfectly insen- sible and motionless, and much reduced in bulk. When in this con- dition, a part is said to be frost-hiUen. The patient may be quite un- conscious of the accident that has befallen him until he is told of it by some other person; especially if it be his nose or ear that is affected, or some other part that he does not move. A frost-bitten part may mortify in two manners;—1st, by c/iVcci »phacclus, if no reaction whatever is induced ; ‘2ndly, by gumjrciuyus hijlammalion; if reaction, when induced, be rendered too violent. The degree of cold required to produce frost-bite under any ordinary circumstances of exposure must be considerably below the freezing point, hlr. Guthrie states it at ten degrees below the zero of Fahren- heit.* The natives of warm climates may be severely injured by cold that would be innocuous to the inhabitants of colder regions. Thus, during the siege of Ciudad Rodrigo, when the troops were obliged to sleep on the ground without cover, throe of the Portuguese actually died of the cold in one night, whilst the British escaped without being frost-bitten. But very much depends on the tempera- ment; for according to Larrey, the phlegmatic Dutch, Hanoverians, and Prussians, suffered much more during Napoleon’s winter cam- paigns than the darker and more sanguine soldiers of France and LS42. Several successful ca.ses by Mr. Parker, of Bridgewater, are quoted in Kaiiking's Half-yearly Abstract, vol. Hi. p. 106. ♦ Guthrie, op. cit. p. 141.