5.51 CHAPTER XXII. OF THE SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. I. Blen'noiirikea.—Young female children are sometimes subject to mucous or purulent discharges from the parts at the entrance of the vagina; which may also perhaps be excoriated. Purgatives, tonics, soap and water, and astringent lotions are the remedies. II. Noma signifies a phagedaanic affection of the labia pudendi of young female children, precisely resembling the canerum oris, p. 414, in its causes and nature, and s3’mptoms. After two or three days of low fever, the little patient is observed to suffer considerably whilst making water, and on examination, the labia present a livid erj’sepela- tous redness and vesications, that are rapidly followed bj' phagedsenic idcers. This disease is very frequently fatal. The treatment is the same as directed for cancrum oris. The surgeon must be very careful not to mistake this or the preceding affection for the venereal disease; an error common enough among parents.* III. '\''esico-Vagina Fi.stula signifies a communication between the bladder and the vagina. It generally results from sloughing of the parts after a tedious labour. As soon as it is discovered, the patient should be made to lie on her face—a catheter should be con- stantly worn in the urethra, and an oiled sponge in the vagina, and the bowels should be kept moderatel}' loose. By these means the natural contraction of the parts will be aided. After some weeks, it will be expedient to pare the edges of the fissure, and unite them bj’’ suture, by means of Mr. Beaumont’s instrument; or if this fails, to touch them frequently with nitrate of silver, or to apply the actual cauteiy at intervals for a few months. If these means fail, or if the patient will not submit to them, Ur. Reid’s plan of plugging the vagina with an India rubber bottle, appears to be the best means of preventing the constant dribbling of urine. IV. Recto-Vaginal Fistula must be treated by constant!}' wearing a sponge in the vagina, so as to prevent the passage of frnces through it, and by mild laxatives. If after a time the aperture does not close, it must be treated as in the last case. Complete laceration ] of the pcrincBiini into the anus is attended with distressing incontinence ' of fmees, and is prevented from healing by the action of the sphincter. Hence it is necessary to divide the sphincter on each side of the lacer- ation, then to sew together the edges of the laceration, and to prevent the new wounds from uniting, by placing a few threads of lint in them, until the laceration has united. V. A Vascular Excrescence, varying in size from that of a * Kinder Wood on a fatal atfection of tlie pudenda of female cliildren. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 84.