PRODUCTION OF PUS. 52 c'.itiunt lotions, especially those of zinc, F. 117, or muriate of ammonia, F. 110 ; blisters, or other counter-irritants—always taking care not to reproduce active inflammation by too^violent stimulation. CHAPTER IX. SECTION I.—OF THE THEORY OF .SUPPURATION AND PROPERTIES OF PUS. Production OF Pu.s. 1st. hi abscesses.—According to the doctrines stated in the preceding chapters, whenever the effusion of fibrine is attended with too acute a degree of inflammation, or when there are certain defects in the constitution, the cells which develope themselves ill it, instead of going on to form fibrous tissue, often undergo a species of degeneration, become incapable of assuming anj^ higher form of life, and, being mixed with the spoiled liquor sanguinis, fonn a creamy fluid called pus. When this takes place in the cellular tissue, or in the serous membranes, joints, or any other cavity in the body, an abscess is said to be fonued. In the cellular tissue the lymph which surrounds the pus acquires a degree of organization, and forms a sac or ci/st, which circumscribes it, and contains it. 2nd. In open granulating tvounds.— In the case of wounds and other injuries, in which a portion of the tissues is left uncovered by skin ; or of wounds, which have not united by adhesion, the exposed surfaces, after bleeding has ceased, and a thin reddish serum has ceased to exude, become glazqd over with a greyish or buffj’ coat com- posed of fibrine and the white corpuscles of the blood. T wo or three days pass, more or less ; the vicinity of the wound displays evidence of slight inflammation, and lymph is effused in thin layers. Of each layer a portion soon becomes vascular, and its surface is thrown up into little eminences called granulations, which secrete a fresh layer; another portion degenerates into pus, forming a bland creamy cover- ing for the granulating surface. Granulations are composed, as to structure, of nucleated cells, developed out of lymph. If healthy, and proceeding towards a cure, they are small, pointed, and florid; they bleed if wiped, and are not very tender. But they are subject to many disorders ; being sometimes pale, bloated, and oedematous ; sometimes degenerating into a pseudo-mucous membrane ; sometimes breaking up suddenly, and beingTIissolved into a sanious fluid. When however the case proceeds favourably, the wound or cavity becomes filled up with the growth of repeated layers of them, and whilst the undermost are developing into fibro-cellular tissue, those on the surface form themselves into cuticle, and so the wound is healed. Cicatrization.—This process of healing, or cicatrization, is attended with an absorption of inflammatory effusion in the vicinity of the