8 BUFFY BLOOD. Its quicki2oss (or skarjviess) depends on the velocity and impetus with which each individual contraction is made. If the artery, through what is called its ionic contraction, offers some considerable resistance to the ingress of the blood, the pulse will be Jiard; feeling like whip- cord, and not stopped by very slight pressure with the finger; whilst, on the other hand, if that contraction is trifling, so that the vessel yields readily to the impulse of the blood, or the pressure of the finger, the pulse will be sq/i. The vibratory feel, or thrill, or jar, is caused by an irregular dilatation of the artery, which dilates with an innumer- able number of stops and interruptions. The full and small pulse de- pend in some measure on the quantity of blood in the system, but principally on the state of the vessel; for if that does not dilate freely, the pulse will be small. A small hard pulse is a much safer indica- tion for bleeding than a full soft one. In the fever accompanying acute inflammation of any common part, such as skin, cellular tissue, or muscle, or of the eye, dura-mater, or pleura, the pulse is generally fi-etjucnt, hard, and full. During acute inflammation, however, of the brain and stomach— parts most essential to life—or of the peritoneum, testicle, and kidney, which are most intimately connected with the stomach by the sympa- thetic nerve, the vital powers seem to be depressed, and the pulse is frequent, hard, and small. Again, during acute inflammation in a very weak and irritable con- stitution, the pulse maj’^ either be yery frequent, soft, and small, or fre- quent, soft, large, and jerking; the soft jerking quality indicating an almost passive yielding to the heart’s impulse, and being caused by an absence of that contractile tone which renders the pulse small and hard.* A frequent, shai'p, and jerking but soft pulse is also found after great loss of blood, and in other cases of great debility and great excitement combined. Buffy Blood.—It was observed in the preceding page, that blood drawn during the existence of acute inflammation is usually huffed and cupped : that is to say that the clot has on its upper surface a laj-er of a j^ellowish white, or bujf substance ; which substance generally contracts so as to make the upper surface of the clot concave, or eupped- What is the exact physieul condition of the blood, to which the buffy coat is' ^ving ? This is a question which has received many discordant ahswers. It was formerly said that blood which exhibited the coagulated very slowlj', so tiiat the red particles had time to sink, and leave the upper surface of tlie clot colourless. Hunter sup- posed that the .specific gravity of the red particles was increased, through which they sank to the bottom more quickly than in healthy 'blood. The most modern and most probable e.xplanation however is, that * Wilson Philip. Experimental luquiiT into the Laws of the Vital Functions, p. 323, 3rd edition. See ahso Hunter on iho Blood, chap. iii. sect. 6.