498 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. TroMtmcnt.—Whenever the protrusion occurs, the parts should be carefully washed, and then be replaced by pressure with the hand. If there is any difficulty in doing so, the forefinger oiled should be pushed up into the anus, and it will carry the protruded part with it. If, however, as sometimes happens, a larger portion than usual has come down, and it is so swelled and tender from the constriction of the sphincter, and from being irritated by the clothes, that it cannot be returned, leeches, fomentations, a dose of opium, and rest in the hori- zontal posture for some hours, will remove the difficulty; but plain iced water is perhaps the best application. To cure this affection radically, the bowels should be regulated by gentle aperients (F. 46, 52, 55), so as to prevent costiveness and straining, injections of dec. quercus, or of a lotion composed of a drachm of muriated tincture of iron to a pint of water; sponging with cold water—tonics, especially steel wine—the occasional passage of a bougie, and support by pads and T bandages, may be used to give tone and firmness to the parts— and piles, or any other source of irritation, must be removed by appro- priate remedies. Dr. MacCormac of Dublin recommends that when the stools are passed, the skin near the anus should bo drawn to one side with the hand, so as to tighten the orifice ; this the author believes to be a very valuable suggestion. But if the diligent employment of these measures is of no avail, certain operations may be resorted to. 1. The mildest consists in pinching up two or three folds of mucous membrane on the protruded bowel with forceps, and tying them tightly with ligatures. 2. Or ligatures may be passed by needles through several folds of skin just at the margin of the anus, which are then to be tied up tightly. Or 3, a small jiatch of relaxed mucous membrane may be destroyed b}”^ acid. Either of these operations may be re- peated as often as necessary. Their effect in producing adhesion and consolidation of the relaxed tissues must be obvious. There is a French operation, which consists in excising a portion of the sphincter ani; but when this operation used to be performed (as it commonly was sixt}' years ago) for fistula, it was often followed by inability to retain the fieces. XII. Internal Prolapsus.—Sometimes the upper part of the rectum becomes prolapsed and invaginated within the lower, giving rise to most of the symptoms of stricture. On examination with the finger, the canal of the rectum is found obstructed by a tumour with a capacious cul de sac around it, and with the natural passage of the bowel in its centre. Treatment.— Aperients, mild astringent injections, and the bougie; the point of which should be carefully guided into the orifice in the centre of the prolapsed portion. XIII. Spasmodic Stricture of the rectum—known by great difficulty in evacuating the bowels, with spasmodic pain on doing so—is an affection about which but little is known. “• It generally depends,” says Mr. Mayo, “ on a vitiated state of the secretions ; and is more frequently relieved by a regulated diet and alterative