475 STRANGULATED HERNIA. in many cases, especially of inguinal hernia, but it is a most dan- gerous remed3\ It has proved immediately fatal to some patients, and has rendered others incapable of surviving the shock of the operation. if) Cold applied to the tumour by means of pounded ice or a freez- ing mixture (F. 114) in a bladder, is useful by reducing inflammation, condensing flatus, and constringing the skin. It is most applicable to large scrotal hernias. It, ton, is not without its haz:u:ds, for it may cause gangrene of the skin if applied too long, or if hot applications are incautiously used after it. (^) Fttryalives and enemata are instating and mischievous in sud- den acute strangulation, but vastly beneficial if the patient is aged, the hernia large and long irreducible, and if the attack has been preceded and caused by constipation. Largo doses of calomel and colocynth are the best purgatives, and the enemata should consist of as much salt and water as can be injected without causing very much pain or distension. Moreover, Dr. O’Beirne has fully shown that greater benefit is to be derived in cases of incarcerated hernia and obstinate constipation from passing up a long tube (the tube of a stomach-pump answers verj' well) into the colon, than from the use of the ordinary short enema pipe. The long tube relieves the bowels of their flatus ; and of course by diminishing the bulk of the contents of the abdomen, renders the return of the hernia more easy.* In old standing cases, occureing to aged people with large hernia;, the surgeon may be justified in waiting some time to trj’ the effect of his remedies; but in acute cases occurring to young people, it may be laid down as a general rule that, if the taxis, aided perhaps by chloro- form or opium, do not succeed, it is the safest plan to perform an operation for dividing the stricture without further delay. The ojieratioji generallj’ performed consists in opening the sac, di- viding the stricture, and returning the intestine. The manner of doing which for each variety of hernia, will be found in the following sections. When the sac is opened, the intestine should be well ex- amined, and especially that part of it which has been actually com- pressed by the stricture, and which should be gently drawn down for that purpose. If it be merely dark claret-coloured from congestion, or slightly roughened with lymph, or if it exhibit a few black patches of ecchymosis, it should be returned—the operator being careful to replace it bit by bit—intestine before omentum—and those parts first which protruded last. The wound may then be closed with one or two sutures, and a firm compress be placed upon it. If the hernia wCapi irreducible long before it was strangulated, and if its contents are united to the sac by firm broad adhesions, they should not be disturbed. But if the adhesions are recent, or verj' thin and slight, thej’ maj' be divided and the bowel be returned. * Vide Lancet, July 6 and 27, 1839 ; also James’s Retrospective Address, in Prov. Med. Trans. 1840 and O’Beirne on Uefajcation.