609 CHAPTER VII. OF CHLOROFORM, AND OTHER MEANS OF PRODUCING INSENSIBILITY TO PAIN. History.—Last in our work, and last in the date of its discovery, but by no means least in importance, comes that modern method of procuring unconsciousness to pain, which promises to be one of the greatest blessings that medical research has yet conferred on mankind. So terrible is the idea of the surgeon’s knife, that it cannot be w'ondered at that many attempts have been made, at various times since surgery was first cultivated, to diminish the tortures which it inflicts, both in apprehension and in reality. Dr. Simpson * brings forward quotations from Dioscorides, Pliny, and Apuleius, authors of the Augustan age, showing that in that age the root of the mandragore or mandrake {airopa mandrayom) steeped in wine was given to cause insensibility {•ttoiuv avaia-^>iirlic>t) in persons who were to be cut or cau- terized, and that whilst the influence of this remedy lasted, a member might be cut off v/ithout any pain or sensation. The seeds of the rocket (eruca) were infused in wine and drunk, according to Pliny, by criminals about to undergo the lash, in order to induce a certain reck- lessness or hardihood of feeling. The vinegar mingled with gall, mentioned by St. Matthew (or the wine mingled with myrrh, as it is rendered by St. Mark), which was offered to our Saviour before his Passion, furnishes an instance familiar to every one. The bany, or extract of Indian hemp, is used in India for the same purpose at the present day. Dr. Simpson has shown further that the inhalation of narcotic vapours was used as a preparatory to surgical operations in the thirteenth century. Towards the end of the eighteenth century, Mr. James Moore, son of Dr. Moore, of Clifford Street, and lately house-surgeon to St. George’s Hospital, introduced a plan for diminish- ing the sensibility of limbs before amputation, by compressing the sciatic and crural, or other principal nerves. This he effected by means of an instrument resembling in principle Signoroni’s tourniquet, depicted at p. 310, except that his instrument consisted of a horse-shoe shaped arch of steel with a pad at each extremity, and a screw to act upon one of the pads. Moore was permitted by John Hunter, in 1784, to try his plan upon a patient in St. George’s Hospital who had lost all his toes, and had a large irritable ulcer on his foot, and whose leg, after having been submitted to the process, was cut off below the knee by Mr. Hunter, with an extremely small amount of pain.+ This plan, however, was soon given up; it is not certain, and is not without some * Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, December, 1847. + A method of preventing or diminishing pain in several operations of sur- gery, by James Moore, member of the Surgeons’ Company of London. 1784. R R