539 DISEASES OF THE PENIS. the linea alba, and opening the bladder (which is projected upwards on the point of a catheter); at its fore and upper pai-t, where it is not covered by peritonajuin. This operation may be occasionally resorted to when the stone is of great size, and the prostate much enlarged, br the space between the tuberosities of the ischia contracted. Lithectasy,* or Cystectasy. — In this operation, the mem- branous part of the urethra is cut into, and the prostatic portion dilated by fluid pressure, till it admits of a forceps being introduced to seize the stone.+ Sto.ve IN WOMEN is much less frequent than it is in men, and when a renal calculus reaches the bladder, it is much more easily voided. If, however, there is a calculus too large to escape, it must be removed by dilating the orifice of the urethra, or by incision, or both. The great evil is the almost certainty that more or less incontinence of urine will follow either operation. To lessen the chance of which, Mr. Fergusson recommends that the dilatation should be effected very slowl}^, by means of a metallic or some other dilator, till it is capable of admitting the forefinger, when a forceps may be introduced to seize the stone. If this should not answer, and it seems necessary to make an incision, he recommends that the anterior half of the urethra—not its whole length into the bladder—should be divided to the extent of half an inch with a probe-pointed bistoury; after which sufficient dilatation might be effected with the forefinger oiled. The outer part of the urethra, which is the most undilatable part of it, would be alone divided by this operation, and the neck of the bladder, unless very roughly used, would speedily acquire its tone and use. In this way the eminent surgeon just quoted has extracted a stone three inches in circumference, and the patient had the power of retaining her urine immediately afterwards.^ CFIAPTER XXI. OF THE DISEASES OF THE MALE GENITALS. SECTION I.—OP THE DISEASES OF THE PENIS. I. PiiY.MOSis signifies a preternatural constriction of the orifice of the urethra, so that the glans cannot be uncovered without difficulty, if at all. It may be a congenital affection, or may be caused by tlie • At0o9, calculuSy and e/cTafft?, extensio. t For further accounts and cases of this operation, vide Willis on the urinaiy organs ; case \falal) by Mr. Fergusson, recorded in Prov. Med. .Tourn. Stli August, 1843 ; one |succc»i/i(i) by Mr. Elliott, in Braitliwaite’s Retrospect, vol. vii.; anotlier (succesf/ul) by Dr. Wriglit of Malton, Lond. Mod. Gaz. vol. xxxiv. ; and a paper by Dr. Arnott, Lancet, August oth, 1843; also Ran- king’s Abstract, vol. iii. p. 119. t Practical Surgery, second Edition, p. 135.