FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. 334 ears, or nose, or mouth, may depend on an insignificant rupture of the membrana tympani, or of the mucous membrane of those parts. These cases mostly terminate fatally, although there is one instance of re- covery on record. A copious discharge of thin watery fluid from the ear, is an indica- tion of imminent peril.* It evidently filters through a crack in the petrous portion, into the tj'inpanum, and thence outwardly through a rupture in the membrana tympani; but whether it comes from the sac of the arachnoid, or from the venous sinuses, is uncertain ; most probably from the fonner, because it is uncoagulable, and, like the cerebro-spinal fluid, contains very little or no albumen or salts. In a case under Mr. Tatum’s care in St. George’s Hospital, the membrana tympani was ruptured, and the saliva flowed copiously from the ear ; of course through the Eustachian tube. 1. Simple fissure requires no treatment apart from that of the concussion, compression, or scalp wound, with which it may be ac- companied. 2. Fracture with depi-ession may be simple or compound ; the com- pound being that which is attended with a scalp wound e.vposing the fracture. (a.) Simple fracture with depression may be ascertained by a careful examination of the shaved scalp, when, if it e.xist, there will be felt a depression at one part, with a corresponding edge or projecting ridge near it. Sometimes a coagulum of blood under the scalp conveys the feeling of a sharp elevated ridge of bone ; it may be known, how- ever, by its yielding to firm pressure with the finger, and by observing that no part of the bone is heloui its natural level. But although there may be a real fracture with depression, still there may be no compres- sion of the brain ; because the outer table may merely have been driven into the diploe, or the outer wall of the frontal sinus may have been broken in. The former accident (i. e. fracture of the outer table only) can only happen to a patient of middle age, because the diploe neither exists in infancy nor in old age; the latter will be known by the escape of air, when the nose is blown forcibly, either into the cellular tissue of the forehead, or out of the wound if there be one. Treatment,—In a case of simple depressed fracture, if there are symptoms of compression of the brain, the scalp should be divided, and the bone be raised by trephining. But if there are no symptoms of compression (and there sometimes are none), and if the patient is con- scious and rational, there is a difference of opinion as to the plan to be pursued. Sir A. Cooper and Abernethy direct that no incision should be made through the scalp, nor should the trephine be immediately resorted to, which they contend must necessarily aggravate the amount of the injury, and the patient’s danger ; but tLat the patient should * For observations on this joint see Guthrie op. cit.; and a notice of papers l>y MM. Eangein, Robert, and Chassaiguae, in Ranking’s Abstract, vols. ii. and iii.