397 SQUIXTIKG. ing manner. The patient, if an adult, and manageable, sits in a low chair ; if an unruly child, he should be rolled up in a sheet, and be placed on a table, with the head supported by a pillow, 'fhe sound eye should of course be bandaged, and an assistant should place two fin^rs on it to keep it steady during the operation. Then the upper lid of the scpiinting eye being held up by the assistant’s finger, or by a wire speculum, and the lower lid being held down by another assist- ant’s finger, desiring the patient to look out or in, as the case may be, the surgeon pinches up a'fold of the conjunctiva with the forceps, over the insertion of the rec- tus muscle to be cut, and then divides it by a touch of the scissors ; the incision should be about half an inch long, and in the vertical direc- tion. By repeated light snips with the point of the scissors, the cellular tissue is cut through, and the sclerotica with the tendon exposed. A blunt hook is then passed under the tendon, which should be raised, drawn a little for- ward, and divided by the scissors. When the operation is complete, the surgeon will find that the patient can move the eye more freely than before in all other directions, but that he cunnot move it diivcth/ inwards. After the operation the eye should be protected from cold and light, and any inflammatory symptoms be checked by appropriate measures. But it is very rarely succeeded by any untoward symptoms, althougbl the author knows more than one case in which the eyeball suppurated and burst. This operation may be performed for two purposes. The first is, to get rid of the deformity of the squint. And this purpose is generally answered effectually; although it must be confessed that the inner side of the eyeball is sometimes apt to project somewhat, and the eye to look large and goggled. But the patient must make his own choice between this and the squint. The second purpose is that of strengthening the eye. and enabling the patient to bring it into use. And this purpose is no doubt an- swered in some measure, so that both eyes are used for the vision of remote objects, and tbc patient says that the eye feels stronger and clearer; but it is not likely to be useful in near vision till after a long * Tlic Iiook represented in the cut, and used for tlie purpose of steadying the eye, is now never eniidoycd.