•29 GENERAL PUENOMEXA OF INFLAMMATION. knee of diseased hip. Lastlj', it may be entirely absent ; as when inriainiuation occurs in a healthy constitution, and merely produces adhesion ; so that adhesions are often found between the pleurae after death, that never were suspected during life ;—or when inflammation, although disorganising, is very insidious and indolent, as in scrofula; —or when the patient’s mental and physical sensibilities have been benumbed by the habitual use of intoxicating liquors ;*—or when the nervous system is stupified by the influence of poisonous blood in fever ;—or when the part inflamed is deprived of its nerves of sen- sation. (3.) The heutoi inflammation was supposed by Hunter to be a mere effect of the increased afflux of blood. For it is most remarkable in inflammation of those parts which are farthest from the heart, and na- tm'ally the coldest ; and in them it often does not rise so high as the mean temperature of the blood ;—whilst in inflammation of internal parts, whose heat is uniform, and not depressed by external vicissi- tudes, it sometimes does not rise at all. We may, however, suppose with Liebig, that, together with the increased afflux of blood, there is •also a more rapid oxydation of the tissues of the inflamed part, which will of necessity produce a greater evolution of heat.F (4.) The su-ellinff is caused at first by the increased quantity of blood, and subsequently by the effusion of serum, blood, lymph, and pus. It is most remarkable in loose textures ; also in the breast, testicle, and IjTuphatic glands. (5.) The impairment of function which inflammation produces, consists at first in an increased irritability and morbid sensibilitj' of external impression ; but, subsequently, of an utter incapability of performing the usual offices, in consequence of structural change. Se- cretion is generally diminished at the commencement of inflam- mation, but the secreted fluids at its close may be apparently in- creased in quantity, and mixed with the products of inflammation— blood, serum, IjTuph, or pus. (G.) Structural changes.—The characteristic tendency of inflamma- tion is to produce an exudation from the surface of membranes, and into the substance of organs, of a fluid, which assumes the form either of coagulable b'mph, or of pus. The histoiy of these effusions will be found in the following chapters. Effects and 1 erminations.^—Inflammation has only one genuine termination, namely, resolution, or recovery; the inflammatorj- action subsiding, and the part returning to its fomier state ;—but, beside resolution, it may have either of the following six terminations, or effects, or conserjuences, as they ought rather to be called. 1. Jlmmor- rhape ; an escape of blood from the distended vessels. 2. Effusion of serum. 3. Effusion of fiirine, or of couyulahle lymph, whidi, when or- ganised, produces adhesion. 4. Suppuration, the formation of a pecu- • Latham, Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine.—Lcct. iv, t .lames on Inflammation, p. 23U: Macartney, on Inflammation, p. 14- Latour, Kevue Mid., Jan. 1840; Liebig, op. cit. p. 254. ’