173 GOKORRnCEA. Eesides the above symptoras, the following complications may occur in various cases;— 1. There may be severe irrilation or actual inflammation of the tirinan/ organs ;—sometimes of the deeper portion of the urethra, pro- ducing great pain in the perinmum, and spasm of the accelerators and other muscles during micturition, so as to interrupt the stream of urine, and cause the most exquisite agonj', or even sometimes com- plete retention;—sometimes of the bladder, causing a very frequent desire to make water, and great pain in doing so, which lasts for some time afterwards, together with a white mucous cloud in the urine;— or there may be pain in the loins, scanty urine, tenderness of the abdomen, vomiting, and other signs of severe irritation of the kidneys. 2. JIcBmorrhajc from the urethra;—from rupture of the distended capillaries during violent erection. The loss of blood generally gives relief. 3. Inflammation and obstruction of the mitcous follicles of the ure- thra, which may suppurate and burst either in the urethra, or exter- nally; or both. 4. Inflammation oi tho lymjiliatic of the groin; constituting symj)athetic bubo. 5. Gonrroliwa spuria^ vel externa, or balanitis (jiaXiicvos, plans)— inflammation and suppuration of the mucous investment of the glans and prepuce, and of the sebaceous follicles around the corona ylundis. This affection will be treated of in the section on the Diagnosis of Chancre. G. Phymosis, or parajyhymosis, may easily arise, owing to the swelled condition of the plans and prepuce. When the latter is ffidematous, it presents a curious semi-transparent appearance called crystalline. 7. Inflammation of either testicle. 8. Gonorrhaxcl rheumatism;—pain, swelling, and tenderness of the joints, especially of the knees and ankles, and fever; this generally occurs towards the decline of the complaint, and attacks young people of a delicate strumous habit. The same persons are also liable to rheumatic ophthalmia, or inflammation of the fibrous structures of the eye ; but this, which is a sympathetic affection, must not be con- founded with the gonorrhejeal inflammation of the conjunctiva, which is caused by the contact of the discharge. Bacot says, that the rheu- matism is sometimes suddenly relieved by the appeai-ance of patches of minute papukc or pustules. In the third stupe, the inflammatory symptoms and chordee abate, and a muco-purulent discharge is left, which, when obstinate and thin, is called iiplcet. Varieties.—Gonorrhoea varies extremely in its severity. It is always most severe in first cases, and in patients who are very young, or who possess irritable or scrofulous constitutions. In such cases it may be attended with extreme fever and constitutional disturbance.