492 DISEASES OP THE EECTUM AND ANUS. the rectum—pain and straining in passing evacuations—with perhaps more or less bleeding. These symptoms may, in violent cases, be complicated with irritation of the bladder, frequency of micturition, pain in the back, pain and aching down the thighs. The young sur- geon should remember, that a patient with piles may not be aware of the nature of his complaint, or through delicacy may abstain from mentioning it. Whenever, therefore, a patient complains of unusual irritation of the bladder, or of sj’mptoms of dysentery—that is to say, frequent, painful, and unsatisfactory efforts to pass motions, the sur- geon should alwaj's make inquiries after piles. In women, piles ma}' cause aching of the back, uterine irritation, with mucous discharge, and manj" anomalous symptoms, which the surgeon will in vain en- deavour to cure until he finds out the real cause. The haemorrhage from piles will be treated of more particular!}^ at page 494. Causes.—The ^vedisposing carises are any circumstances that pro- duce fulness of the abdominal vessels, or that impede the return of blood from the rectum—such as luxurious and sedentary habits of life —pregnancy, constipation, disease of the liver or lungs retarding the passage of hlood through them, and tight stays. The ewciting causes may be anything that irritates the lower bowels—particularly strain- ing at stool—large doses of aloes—ascarides—horse exercise, and the application of cold and damp to the posteriors. Piles are most fre- quent in women, and arc rare under puberty. General Treatment.—The grand objects are to remove the predis- posing and exciting causes. The patient, if stout, plethoric, and of sedentary habits, ought to live abstemiously, and take plenty of exer- cise. The bowels should be regulated by some mild aperient, capable of producing daily copious soft evacuations without straining or grilling. Senna, sulphur, cream of tartar, and magnesia, in the form of electuaries, F. 46, are frequently used for this pui-pose; or pills of rhubarb and snap, with ipecacuanha, taken twice a day, F. 52; or a small dose of castor oil or Kochelle salts in the moniing. It is a good plan to inject the rectum with cold water both before and after the motions, and to use a hip-bath at 85—70° at bedtime. In cases of long standing, in which the mucous lining of the rectum is relaxed, cubebs, or Ward’s paste, or the confect, piperis comp, may be given with great benefit in doses of 3j ter die. In similar cases, especially if the patient is advanced in years, and the piles are attended with a flow of mucus, copaiba may be given in the dose of thirty or forty drops every morning in milk; and a scruple of common pitch may be taken in pills every night at bedtime. Old people rarely dislike the taste of copaiba. Arsenic, which seems to act specifically on the rectum, is recommended by hir. C. Hawkins.* If the jiilcs are inflamed, leeches to the anus, or cupping on the sacrum, a dose of calomel and opium at bedtime, followed by castor oil in the morning; low diet, rest in bed, warm fomentations and • Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. v. p. 139.