436 DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. theory that removal of the tonsils interferes with the development of " the genital organs. III. Enlargement of the Uvula produces tickling cough and expectoration by irritating the larynx. If it does not yield to the treatment directed for enlarged tonsil, it should be stretched and steadied with forceps, and be cut through in the middle with a pair of long scissors. SECTION II.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. I. Spasm of the QHsofhagus (spasmodic stricture) is knowTi by its generally occurring in sudden fits—the patient at a meal finding himself altogether incapable of swallowing, and the attempt to do so producing spasmodic pain and a sense of choking. The diagnosis be- tween this and the organic or j>crmancnt stricture is founded on the suddenness of its accession ; it being much better at some times than at others ; and the fact that the bougie, if passed, either meets with no obstruction, or with one that very easily yields. Treatment.—This aflfection always depends on a weakened or hys- terical state of the system, or on the presence of some other disorder, as has been mentioned whilst treating of neuralgia. Brodie relates a case that ceased on the removal of bleeding piles; and Mayo, another that was cured by relieving chronic disease of the liver. Tonics, antispasmodics, and alteratives—especially the carbonate of iron thrice a day, with piUs of aloes and galbanum at bed-time—exercise in the open air, the shower-bath, and other forms of warm and cold bathing —great attention to the diet—care not to swallow anything imper- fectly masticated or too hot, and tlie occasional passage of a bougie,— are the remedies. II. Palsy of the (Esophagus occasions inability of swallowing, but without pain or other s}Tnptoms of spasm; and a bougie, when passed, meets with no obstruction. It generally depends on organic disease of the brain or spinal cord, which must be examined into and cured if possible. The patient should be fed by the stomach-pump, by nutrient enemata, and by pushing soft food occasionally down the (esophagus with a probang. The palsy has sometimes been tempo- rarily relieved by electrifying the patient on an insulating stool. Nutrient enemata should be composed of very strong beef or mutton broth, without salt or spice. The quantity injected at one time should not exceed four ounces ; and if the rectum does not retain it, a few drops of laudanum should be added. III. Dilatation and Sacculation.—The oesophagus has been found after death exceedingly dilated. The symptoms during life were, great dysphagia,—food, when swallowed, never seemed to reach the stomach, and was vomited in a few minutes. If this condition should be ascertained during life, the patient should be fed as in palsy. Sometimes a blind pouch is connected with the oesophagus, and occa- sions great distress in swallowing, by intercepting tlie food. It may J