ERYSIPELAS. 0'3 but which has been clearly substantiated by recent pathologists, and describe it as a peculiar unhealthy form of intlaraniation, which may attack various tissues, but which, wherever situated, exhibits certain characters that distinguish it from ordinary inflammation. Those characters of erysipelatous inflammation are the following :— It has a disposition to spread widely tdong the surface of membranes, or in the cellular tissue. The lymph which is secreted is incapable of organization, and instead of confining effusions into the cavity of an abscess, permits them to be diffused widely, and tints to extend the disease into sound parts. Erysipelatous inflammation is liable to at- tack different parts, sometimes simultaneously, sometimes by meta- stasis ; that is, leaving one part and flying to another, thus giving evi- dence of its origin in a vitiated state of the blood; Lastly, the differ- ent varieties of erysipelatous disease prevail epidemically together, and are capable of propagation by infection and contagion. Thus Dr. Fer- guson tells us, that erysipelas and puerperal fever are generall}^ co-ex- istent in his lying-in hospital, the mothers perishing of one, and the infants of the other. Instances are now common enough, showing that the contagion of erysipelas may cause puerperal fever, just as inocula- tion with the fluids of a female who has died of puerperal fever is a most fatal source of diffuse cellular inflammation to the dissector. Moreover, during the prevalence of erysipelas in the London hospitals, phlebitis and purulent depots are generally prevalent likewise.* The diseases which may be grouped together as partaking of the erj'sipelatous character, are all probablj’’ caused by the admission of some putrid miasmata into the blood, of which miasmata there are no sources so prolific as hospitals in which the sick are crowded together. Hence Dr. G. Gregoiy has proposed to distinguish these diseases by the term ochle.tic, derived from crowd. The chief varieties are the simple or cutaneous, and the phlegmonous or cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas ; the diffuse inflammation of the cellular tissue ; acute phlebitis ; puerperal fever ; and the suppurative diathesis, or pi/uhcemia, i. e., the peculiar state of constitution in which abscesses or purulent depots are liable to form suddenly and unexpectedly in the liver, joints, lungs, and other parts of the body. Since hospitals are frequently rather a curse than a blessing through the mortality arising from erysipelatous diseases, contracted within their walls, or carried into the lying-in chamber, no pains should be spaced to obviate the causes, and to prevent the extension of these diseases. Hospitals should have rooms, in which the convalescents should be during the day. The floors should be dry-rubbed and polished, not washed. The walls and ceilings should be whitewashed • Vide Ferguson on Puerperal f’ovor, p. 29; Mr. Storrs, of Ooncaster, who first cie.irly proved the common origin of tlie.se and otlior scjitic discasc.s, in the Prov. Med. .lour, 23rd April, 1842, Paley, Loud. Med. Gaz., .lime (i, 1842, on tlie Production of Puerperal Fever liy infection from Ery.sipelas; Nuimely on Erysipelas, Eond. 1841; Dr. G. Gregory on OrhtcsiSj Lancet for July, 15 184.8 • Routh on the Puerperal Fever of Vienna, .Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxii. ’