477 STRANGULATED HERNIA. and of quite recent date. In a similar case, M. Guerin has divided the stricture by means of a subcutaneous incision.* A modification of this operation has been proposed by Mr. Gay, which consists in making a small incision, near the neck of the sac, and carrying the tip of the forefinger to feel for the seat of stricture, and dividing it by a bistouri cacM. We shall allude to this operation again when speaking of femoral hernia, to which it is chiefly appli- cable ; and may remark that the advantages claimed for it are, that it meddles only with healthy parts, is slight, comparatively safe and easilj^ perfomied, and that there is no long convalescence. Hentia reduced en masse.—When the taxis is used forcibly for the reduction of a strangulated hernia, the tumour, sac and all, may be forced through the herniary aperture, and lie between the abdominal muscles and the peritonaeum ; or, rather, between the muscles and the fascia transversalis. In such a case, all the symptoms of strangula- tion continue, although the tumour disappears. The first thing to be done is to make the patient stand up and cough, in order if possible to bring the hernia down again, when it should be operated on without delay ; but if this does not succeed, a cautious incision should be made through the abdominal parietes, over the suspected seat of the disease; and if found, the sac should be opened, the stricture divided, and the case be then treated according to the ordinary rules.f After Treatment.—After the heniia has been returned, a compress —a towel, for instance—should be put on the site of the tumour, and be retained with a bandage, so as to prevent any protrusion from coughing, sneezing, or any other accidental exertion, and the patient should have a full opiate. The surgeon should not be in haste to get the bowels to act, and should abstain from giving salts and other purgatives; for as the intestine that was constricted remains for some time inflamed, weakened, and incapable of propelling its contents, they would but irritate it uselessly. Mr. Travers has very satisfactorily shown, that the great danger after the return of the hernia arises from palsy, and not from inflammation of the bowels.J Castor oil and laudanum may be resorted to after twelve or twenty-four hours. Tenderness, pain, and other inflammatory symptoms, may be allayed by leeching, and by calomel and opium, which is the sheet-anchor in all cases of peritonmal inflammation, after bleeding and fomentations. A truss should be applied before the patient gets up again. * Vide Fergus.son’s Practical Surgery, p. 526. Guerin, Gaz. Med. do Paris, 7th Aug. 1841; Mr. Key’s .Memoir, on dividing the Stricture external to the sac; I.uke, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi. t See a report of a paper read by Mr. Luke, at the Poy. Med. Chir. Soc. in Med. Gaz. 5th May, 1843. X Travers, case of Hernia, &c., Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x.xiii.; see also Han- cock's Essays on Petit’s operation, &c., Lancet, 1849, vol. ii.