i'RACTURK. •229 Symptoms.—The essential symptoms of fracture are three : 1. De- formity ; such as bending, or shortening, or twisting, of the injured limb. 2. Preternatural mobility ; one end of the bone moving in- dependently of the other, or one part of it yielding when pressed upon. 3. Crepitus ; a grating noise heard and felt when the broken ends are rubbed against each other. If the broken parts are displaced, the}' must be drawn into their natural position, otherwise no crepitus will be detected. In addition to these symptoms, there will be more or less pain, swelling, and helplessness of the injured part, startings and spasms of the muscles, and considerable wide-spreading ecchymosis. It is important in every case to know the causes which produce displacement and deformity after fracture, because it is necessary to counteract them carefully during the treatment. They are three. 1. Musciclar action; which produces various degrees of bending, shortening, or twisting in different cases. 2. The weight of the parts below, which, for instance, causes the shoulder to sink down- wards, when the clavicle is broken. 3. The original violence which caused the fracture, as when the ossa nasi are driven in. Treat.ment.—Thegeneral indications for the treatment of fracture, are, to place the fragments in their natural position; and having done so, to maintain them in perfect contact and at perfect rest till they have firmly united. In the first place, the limb must, if possible, be put in a position that will rehix the principal muscles that cause displacement. In fracture of the upper end of the radius, for instance, the elbow should be bent fo relax the biceps ; and jn_Jracture of the olecranoji it should be straight, so as to relax the triceps extensor. Sccomliy, the fracture must be reduced or set; that is to say, the broken parts must be adjusted in their natural positions. For this purpose, the upper end of the limb must be held steadily by one assistant, whilst the lower is catended, or firmly, but gradually and gently drawn in such a direction as to restore the limb to its proper length and shape; the surgeon, meanwhile, by manipulation with his fingers, placing the fragments in their correct position. Thirdly, it is usual to bandage the whole of the fractured limb from its extremity. Ihis is done for the double purpose of preventing oedema, and of o}onfining the muscles, that they may not contract and c disturb the fracture. of all united by a provisional callus, that is to say, by a ferrule of new bone « encircling both fragments, until direct union takes place between the broken ■ extremities, appears to be true in general only .as regards animals, in whom it depends on the constant disturbance tiiey are subjected to, and in the human f subject, as regards the rib only, which bone being subject to constant motion, i is plac(;d under the same circumstances as the bones of the lower anim.als. The rciisou of the indisposition of bones connected with synovial membranes to unite by bone when fractured, is also unknown ; dilliculty of ad.aptation is not the only cause. Vide Paget, Lectures on Uepair, &o. Mod. Gaz. 1849 ; ' Staidey, op, cit. ; and for an account of the older doctrines, Ma}'o's Pathology ; 'Sir A. Cooper on Fractures and Dislocations, and Jk Cooper, Guy's IIosp. Hep. . 1837.