86 MORTIFICATION. general predisposing merely; but sometimes they are sufficient of them- selves to induce mortification, which is then mostly seated in the lower extremities. The gangrene of the feet which was so common amongst such of the soldiers of the wretched Anglo-Spanish expedi- tion as recovered from the Vittoria fever, is a good example of mortifi- cation from constitutional causes. The exciting causes may be divided into—First, mechanical ami chemical injuries, especially gun-shot wounds and compound frac- tures;—the injection of urine or other stimulant fluids into the cellular tissue;—the application of irritants to constitutions weakened by pre- vious disease, as the application of blisters to children after measles or scarlatina;—long-continued pressure under the same circumstances; hence the sloughing of the skin over the sacrum or trochanters of patients confined to bed with some exhausting disease,—or the appli- cation of heat after exposure to cold. Sccondlg, an insufficient supply of arterial Mood; whether from liga- ture of a main artery,—from thickening of itsparietes so as to con- tract its caliber,—from coagulation of the blood within it, or effusion of fibrine into it, as in arteritis,—or from ossification of the artery, and its conversion into a ligamentous cord, which is the cause of senile gangrene. Sloughing of the nose from great loss of blood after .a wound in the throat; sloughing of the centre of one of the cerebral hemispheres after a wound of the corresponding common carotid are further instances.* Patches of skin often mortify in oedema and cel- lulo-ciitaneous crj-sipelas, because its blood-vessels are obstructed by the distention of the subcutaneous tissue with fluid. Thirdly, impediments to the return of venous Mood, whether from ligature of a venous trunk,—from coagulation of the blood in it,— from tumours (diseased liver for instance) compressing it, or from dis- ease of the heart. Fourthly, injury or division of nerves.—Thus, the cornea has been known to slough after division of the fifth nerve. Sir B. C. Brodie has seen mortification of the ankle begin within twenty-four hours after an injury to the spine. But, in general, deficient nervous influence operates merely as a predisposing cause. Besides diminish- ing the vital powers of the part, it takes away that sensibility which is necessary for its protection from injur}'. The tissue most disposed to mortification is the cellular; and next to it, tendinous and ligamentous structures, if the cellular tissue sur- rounding them have been destroyed ; then bone, if deprived of its periosteum ; next the skin, especially if the subjacent cellular tissues have mortified, or have become infiltrated with fluid; and,lastly, parts of higher organization, as muscles, blood-vessels, and nerves, resist it most. Like ulceration, mortification may either be preceded by inflam- mation or not. On the one hand, a part which has been injured may * Paget's Lectures, Med. Gnz., 1847, vol. iv. p. 1022.