SUPPURATION. 56 than pus globules do. Under inflammation there is an increased exudation of albuminous liquid; the epithelium cells arc shed before they have become flattened out ; the quantity of globules is greatly increased, and they acquire the exact character of pus globules. The question of the diagnosis between pus and imwus, is not of the same consequence now, as it was at the time when pus was supposed to indicate the existence of <an ulcer. Aluco-purulcnt matter is pus, only mixed, perhaps, with epithelium, or modified chemically by various local conditions ;—the contact of urine, .for instance. A very viscid pus, like mucus, is occasionally found in chronic ab- scesses, containing a large quantity of hydrochlorate of ammonia,—a salt which abounds in unhealthy pus.* 5. Concrete, or Lardaceous Pus, consists of common pus, thickened by the absorption of its watery parts, in consequence of having remained for a long time in a chronic abscess, or bony cavity t—as the antrum and nasal sinuses. 6. Putrid Pus has a foetid smell, and alkaline reaction, in conse- quence of the presence of hydrosulphate of ammonia: which is formed by the decomposition of albumen, when pus is exposed long enough to air and heat, especially if serum or blood, or some other animal fluid be mixed with it. 7. Specific Pus, capable of producing the venereal disease or the small-pox, may not differ in its sensible qualities from the healthiest, but must include some matter in a peculiar state of decompositiJ»n, which state is capable of being imparted to other living matter. 8. Pus is said to be ichorous when thin and acrid ; saMWttSJvhen thin and bloody : and grumous when mingled with dark half-cui-dled blood. The pus from spreading ulcers and cancers is thin and serous, containing blood globules, and shreds and debris of the ulcerating tissue. Ramollisse.ment.—This is a peculiar effect of inflammation which is observed in greatest perfection in the brain and spinal cord, portions of which become soft, pulpy, and at last diffluent, like thick cream. It has been shown conclusively by Dr. Hughes Bennett, of Edin- burgh, that this process is a mere variation from the ordinary course of suppuration. The affected tissue is first infiltrated with fibrine, which “ co.agulates in the form of granules which may be seen coating the ves- sels, and filling up all the space be- tween the ultimate tissue of the organ.” Thus the organ affected is rendered perfectly dense or hepatized. The granules next form ♦ Pearson, Phil. Trans. 1810. Mucus gives out more ammonia, when treated by lime or potas.s, than pus does, t .Mayo, Pathology, p. 159.