428 CARIES OF THE TEETH. may be removed, although in many cases it is better to sacrifice one of the bicuspides to make room for it. If a growing child is tmder- Ihutig, so that the under incisors come in front of the upper ones when I the mouth is shut, or so that the teeth meet at the cutting edges, •f instead of the lower teeth being received within the upper, the / child should be encouraged daily to push the upper teeth forwards with its tongue and fingers; and should frequently put the end of a spoon-handle behind the upper incisors, and then close the mouth, using the spoon as a lever to press the upper teeth forwards and the lower ones backwards. But if these simple means do not succeed, recourse should be had to the appliances used by professional dentists.* The wisdom tactile especially in the lower jaw, are extremely liable to be misplaced; growing directly outwards or inwai'ds, and producing ulceration of the cheek or tongue ; or projecting forwards against the neighbouring molar, or backwards into the coronoid process, or even being contained within a tumour in the substance of that process. Tumours of either jaw may likewise arise from mal-developraent of either of the other teeth. III. Fracture and Dislocation of Teeth.—If a portion of a tooth is broken off, without exposing the pulp cavit}', the exposed surface should be filed smooth, and then no inconvenience will proba- bly follow. If it is snapped off at the neck, and the pulp cavity is exposed and very painful, it should be touched with lunar caustic, and the mouth be frequently bathed with strong poppy decoction; and when pain and tenderness have ceased, an artificial tooth may be fastened by a pivot to the stump. If, however, the root of the tooth is loosened, it had better be extracted at once. If a tooth is loosened 4by a blow, it should be fastened by silk to its neighbours. Dji tooth ‘ i^eptjrely it should bc replaced as soon as bleeding has cjeasedj and be fastenedTn by silk; no food should be allowedTrSat requires mastication, and inflammation should be combated by repeat- edly leeching the gum. IV. Caries of Teeth signifies a successive softening and decay, gradually spreading till it reaches the central cavity of the tooth, which from that time is subject to fits of toothache. This disease seems to depend on original imperfect fonnation of the enamel and bone, through which they are incapable of resisting the solvent process of the fluids met with in the mouth, and it may further be caused by circumstances which lower the general health ; fevers, salivation, the scrofulous diathesis, &c. Treatment.—If the caries be slight and recent, the whole of the decayed portion should be removed by proper instruments, and the cavity be filled up with gold, or an amalgam of silver and mercury. But if the decay has advanced far towards the pulp cavity, or has • A good .account of which will be found in Mr. Tomes’s Lectures on Dental Surgery, in the Loud. Med. Gaz. vols. xxxvii. aud xxxviii., since published by J. W. Piirker Lond. 1848.