433 TARTAR. renders it adherent to the tooth, and liable to be laeerated on its removal; or secondly, in order to afford room for the claw, if the tooth has decayed down to the gum. Some persons, instead of using a lancet, separate the gum by means of a small tenaculum. XIII. HaiMORRHage after Extraction of Teeth.—This operation may be followed by very severe and dangerous hmmorrhage, which sometimes appears to come from the dental artery at the bottom of the socket; sometimes from the gums, when they have been long diseased. The cavity must first be cleared of all coagulum ; then a piece of matico leaf, or a little strip of lint loaded with powdered matico ; or a bit of nitrate of silver may be put into the socket ; but if neither of these remedies succeeds, the alveolus must be plugged in the follow- ing way; It is first to be cleansed from coagulum; then one end of a long thin strip of lint is to be firmly pressed into it, so as to come into contact with its very bottom, and the remainder in suc- cessive portions is to be forced in till the socket is filled up to the level of the gum. A compress should then be placed on the part, thick enough to be pressed upon by the antagonist teeth, and the mouth should be kept firmly closed by a bandage passing from under the chin to the verte.v. XIV. Tartar, ov salivary calculus, is an earthj' matter deposited on the teeth from the saliva. It is found most abundantly on the superior molares and inferior incisors, obviously because those teeth are nearest the orifices of the salivary ducts. If suft’ered to accumu- late, it causes inflammation and absorption of the gums, and gradual loosening of the teeth. Treatment.—The deposit of this substance is to be prevented by taking care not to disorder the stomach, and by the strictest cleanli- ness. The teeth should be cleaned at least twice a day, with a soft tooth-powder (camphorated chalk is the best) and a little soap. The hairs of the tooth-brush should be soft, and not too closely set; so that they may penetrate the better into the interstices of the teeth. When any quantity of the tartar has accumulated, it should be re- moved by the scaling instruments. The edge or point of the instru- ment is to be introduced between the concretion and the gum, so as to detach the fonner in flakes ; in the meanwhile a finger or thumb, guarded with a towel, should be pressed firmly on the cutting edges of the teeth, so that they may not be loosened by the force necessarily cmploj'ed. Sometimes a small portion of this substance is found stick- ing in the orifice of one of the salivary ducts, and creating great dis- comfort by its irritation. It may be easily removed. XV. Inflammatory Absorption, vulgarly called scurvy of the gums, generally affects middle-aged or elderly people, and may be a consequence of the accumulation of tartar, but more frequently depends on a congested state of the liver and bowels. The gums are swollen, spongy, exceedingly tender, and subject to constant aching p.ain, and they bleed on the slightest touch. If the disease proceeds, they sepa- rate from the teeth ; the alveoli gradually become absorbed, and the