10 HECTIC FEVER. tional disturbance, whicli apparently combines the characters of in- flammatory fever and of that state which we have before described under the term, prostration with excitement. The Spnpt07us and Treatment will be particularised under the head of the various local affections which this fever accompanies. The lead- ing features are great restlessness and anxiety, debility, depression of spirits, weight at the praccordiii, oppressed respiration; frequent rigors; pulse rapid and sharp, but variable in force; death, preceded by low delirium, and signs of great exhaustion. The treatment must, as a general rule, consist in the invigoration of the vital powers by cordial stimulants and tonics, the evacuation of depraved secretions, and the removal of pain and irritation, and of local disease, by whatever measures are most appropriate.* SECTION IV.—OF HECTIC FEVER.f Definition.—Hectic fever is an habitual disorder of the system, when irritated by some long-standing disease, or source of weakness which it is unable to remove. It is a remittent fever, and is generally accompanied by a tendency to increase of one or more secretions. Symptoms.—Emaciation and debility; tongue morbidly clean and red, especially at the tip and edges ; appetite often inordinate; dispo- sition alternately to diarrhoea and profuse perspiration pulse frequent and small;—a febrile exacerbation comeson every evening (or oftener, especially after meals) with slight chills, followed by heat of skin, burning of the soles of the feet and palms of the hands, and a circum- scribed flush in the cheeks;—thirst and restlessness, preventing sleep till after the middle of the night, when the patient falls asleep, and suddenly awakes in a profuse perspiration;—often buoyancy of spirits and hope to the last. Terminations.—(1.) If it be about to terminate fatally, the debi- lity increases; the diarrhoea and perspiration become more profuse and exhausting: the logs become oedematous; aphthai form; and great pain, griping, and tenesmus attend the diarrhoea, owing to an inflam- matory or ulcerated condition of the intestines. The patient may ex- pire suddenly, the heart failing from mere debility; or death may be preceded by typhoid symptoms. And this fatal tennination may be owing either to the continuance of the original disease, or to the in- duction of secondary disease in the lungs or mesenteric glands. (2.) Recovery from hectic is often remarkably rapid, if the causes be removed; provided that no secondary disease has commenced. Cau.ses.—Any chronic organic incurable disease;—whether incur- able from its nature;—from its eatent or from vonstitutional dehi- * See the Sections on Difl'uscd Inflammation of the Ceilular Tissue; on Dis- section Wounds, and on Pldebitis. t From cKTiKos, habit, lialiituai. I Caiicd colliquative (liquo, I melt), because tliey exhaust tlie system.