CHLOROFORM. (ilO disadvantages; for Malgaigne,* who attempted by this means to be- numb a patient’s leg before an operation, found not only that the degree of ana;sthesia was incomplete, but that considerable pain was caused by the compression. Just at the end of the last century, the brilliant discoveries of oxygen and other gases, by Priestley, Black, and Cavendish, and the fervent study of pneumatic chemistry, created a new, though very short-lived, branch of therapeutics: the attention of the profession was directed to pueumatic medicine as it was called; a Medical Pneumatic Institution was set up at Clifton by Dr. Beddoes,+ with huge reservoirs of gases for the consumption of the patients;— Humphr}' Davy, just out of his apprenticeship, was appointed super- intendent in 1799; — his experiments on the inhalation of nitrous oxyde added to the excitement;—S. T. Coleridge, Robert Southey, John Rickman, P. Rogct, Boulton, Watt, Wedgewood, and others, since distinguished as poets and philosophers, eagerly made proof of the effects of the intoxicating gas ;—the gaz oxygenium and gaz uci- dum carbonicum, and other gases, took a rank in the Materia Medica which they soon, however, were obliged to resign; and medical men fondly hoped they had at last found the simplest and most philoso- phical remedies, believing that they might stimulate b}' the inhalation of oxygon or nitrous oxyde, .and depress or narcotize by carbonic acid, hydrogen, and azote, till experience ruthlessly proved the fallacy of these, as of many other ingenious and plausible speculations. Davy found that the nitrous oxyde relieved him from a severe headache, and from the pain of cutting a wisdom tooth ; and he threw out the hint that as it appeared capable of destroying physical pain, so it might probably be used with advantage during surgical operations.+ Nothing in good earnest, however, was done; there was no estab- lished or systematic use of anmsthetic means until the j'ear 1844, when Horace Wells, a dentist of Hartford, Conn. U. S., inhaled the nitrous o.xyde gas himself before one of his teeth was extracted, with the effect of producing a complete unconsciousness of pain, and administered it to several patients who underwent the same operation, with the same beneficial results. In the December of that year he visited Boston, and made public trial of the administration of the gas, before the Medical College of that city. But this experiment failed from want of proper management, .and the failure subjected 'U'ells to so gre.at an amount of ridicule, that he fell sick through vexation, re- tired from pr.actice as a dentist, eng.aged himself in stuffing and ex- hibiting birds, and in the s.ale of shower-b.aths ; .afterwards c.ame to Europe as a picture-dealer, then returned to Americ.a, became more and more unsettled in his mind, and died by his own hand in Januarj', 1848. * Malgaigne’s Operative Surgoiy. by BritUan, p. 42. t A Letter to Erasmus Darwin, M.D., on a New flietliod of Treating Pulmo- nary Consumption. By Thomas Becldoes, M.D. Bristol, 179S. t Vide Memoir of Sir H. Dayy, by his brother, John Davy, M.D., Lond. 1839; and, Researche.s, Chemical and Philosophic<al, by Humphry Davy, Superinten- dent of the Medical Pneumatic Institution, Lond. 1800, p. 465, tt sk/.