162 HYDROPHOBIA. that the patient was saved, although the parts were not cut out till the thirty-first day, find not till the symptoms had actufilly made their appearance. This, however, is doubtful.* Whether the wound, after excision or caustic, should be allowed to heal,—or be kept open, and made to suppurate by irritating ointments, —is a disputed point. The weight of authority certainly favours the latter practice, and beyond the inconvenience it can do no harm. As for any other preventive treatment, all that can be done is to keep the patient in as good a state of health, and in as good spirits, as possible. But there is not one of the innumerable so-called specifics that is worth a moment’s trial. The Tonquin, Ormskirk, and Burling nostrums;—guaco, bo.x, belladonna, and broom tops; all kinds of acids, alkalis, earths, and vegetables ; half drowning the patient in the sea ; and stewing him in hot air and vapour baths,—all these remedies and plans have in turn been reputed infallible, and found to be good for nothing. At one time it was confidently pretended that certain vesicles appear under the tongue during the premonitory symptoms, and that if these were cauterized, the patient would be safe. But un- luckily they can never be found. Curative Treatment.—Here we fire met at the outset with the doubt whether hydrophobia can be cured at all ; whether, like the plague and small-pox, it will not run its course, without the possibility of checking it. Mr. Y ouatt says that he believes he has occasionally prevented it in the dog, and that he has occasionally seen a case of spontaneous recovery ; but that he has never cured it. Dr. Elliotson believes that the premonitory symptoms may show themselves in men and the disease go no further. But filthough it cannot be denied that a few rare cases have recovered ; still, as the remedies that were sup- posed to be successful in these cases have been used again and again in others without benefit, the recoveries must fairly be considered ac- cidental and spontaneous. Bleeding has been frequently tried to a most enormous extent; and one case in the East Indies is said to have been cured bj' it: but it rarely affords even a temporary alleviation, and rather tends, by ex- hausting the strength, to accelerate the fatal issue. It may, however, be tried as a palliative if the patient is plethoric, and the face becomes verj' turgid during the spasms. Warm water.—Magendie and others have proposed, after bleeding, to inject large quantities of warm water into the veins; and it cer- tainly is beneficial, although but for a time. Opium in different forms has been given most profusely, and cer- tainly with some success ;—for whether administered by the mouth, or rubbed into the skin, or injected into the veins, it seldom fails to mitigate the patient’s sufferings, although it never averts his death. This was most strikingly exemplified in the case of a prisoner at Mil- bank, whose case is related by Dr. Bume.f A blister was applied • Tlioinpson, Jled. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii., and Lancet, Sept. 23, 1837. t Med. Gaz., April 14, 1838.