300 CiENEKAL TKEATMENT OP IliEMORnUACE. ing up the orifices of the yessels, but the bleeding is liable to return when the eschar separates. It is better, therefore, to use the iron at a black heal, for it then excites the adliesive inflammation ; and is ver}’- efficacious for arteries that either cannot be tied, or that are too dis- eased to hold the ligature. A pinch icilh the forceps will often cause small vessels to cease bleeding. Many obstinate hajmorrhages from small vessels cease when the wound is cleared of coagulum, and the bleeding part exposed to the air. Medical Treatment.—In cases of arterial hmmorrhage, which there is any difficulty in restraining by ligature or otherwise, it will be ne- cessary to keep the patient in the recumbent posture, and to tranquillize the heart’s action by opium. The diet should consist of milk, broth, and other substances that nourish without stimulating. Supposing that so great loss of blood has taken place, as to endanger the patient's life, the head must be kept low; beef-tea with brandy be given frequently by spoonfuls, and opium in small doses every three or four hours. In a desperate case, where life would evidently be lost without it, eight or ten ounces of blood should be taken from the arm of a healthy person, and be cautiously injected into the patient’s veins. Transfusion of Blood.—The best instrument for this operation is a syringe made for the purpose ; but if this should not be at hand (as in all probability it will not be on an emergency) anj^ other syringe with an accurately fitting piston, such as the syringe commonly used for the ear, may be made to answer the purpose. An incision, an inch and a half long, should be made over one of the most prominent veins at the bend of the elbow, which must be raised by a probe passed under it. Blood should be drawn in a full stream from the arm of a bystander ; and a s}'ringe, having been first rinsed out with clean water at blood heat, should be fully charged with this blood. Its nozzle should then be inserted into an aperture in the patient’s vein, and the blood in it be driven gently along towards the heart. “ We should slowly and cautiously urge in the blood, watching the countenance of the patient. If the lips quiver, or eyes flicker, we are to cease ; if the countenance improves, we are to proceed. If obliged to wait for a minute or two, we must discharge the instrument, and refill it with blood. We are to wait six or eight minutes between each injection; and wash out the syringe with water at blood heat.” The greatest care is necessary to prevent the entrance of air, or of coagula.* Secondary Hajmorrhage may occur under the following circum- stances : 1. It often happens that in a few hours after a wound has been bound up, and the patient put to bed and become warm, sundry small arteries bleed. This case is easily managed. The wound must be opened ; any vessels must be tied that require it; the surface be sponged with cold water, and then be exposed to the air for a few hours. 2. There ma}’ be a pcneral oozing of blood from a wound, owing to some disorder of the general health. Its causes and treat- * BlundeU’s Lectures on Midwifery, Lancet; Byan’s Midwifoiy, p. 485.