SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 191 Sometimes there remain one or two indolent enlarged glands, pro- jecting in the midst of the sore, denuded of skin, and incapable of form- ing healthy granulations. These may be destroyed by caustic in the following way :—An ounce of bread crumbs, two drachms of corrosive sublimate, and one drachm of red oxide of lead, mixed into a paste witli a little water, may be made into conical troches of the shape of bread-seals ; and oiie of these may be inserted into a puncture in the diseased gland, which it will speedily cause to slough. Sinuses, if they are not soon healed by stimulating injections, may be slit up. If the ulcer become inflamed or irritable, or spread by ulceration, or if it be attacked by slowjhinrj, or phagedcBna (which may destroy the patient by exhaustion, or by laying open the femoral artery), the same treatment must be adopted that has already been directed for similar ulcers in other parts. Vide p. 78, et seq. SECTION VII.—OF SECONDARY SYPHILIS. The .s}'mptoms of secondary, or constitutional syphilis, generallj'- occur about six weeks after the primary symptoms ;—sometimes a fortnight, sometimes not for months. Before their appearance, the . patient generally becomes thin and wan ;—he looks dispirited ;—his e3'es are heavy;—and he complains of want of appetite and sleep, and of rheumatic pains. The effects of constitutional syphilis are usually first manifested upon the skin and mucous membrane of the throat, and then upon the bones. We shall first describe these several local affections, and then the treatment of secondaiy syphilis generally ; but syphilitic affec- tions of the eye and testis, which generally accorapanj- those of the throat, will be treated of in the chapters that are particularly devoted to those organs. Syphilitic Eruption.s vary in degree from the slightest discolora- tion to the most inveterate ulcers. 1. In the mildest form, the skin is mottled and stained in irregular patches of a brownish red colour ; which are caused bj- a slight swelling and vascidar injection. A greater degree of the same derangement will produce si/phililic jjsoriasis, in which the skin is raised in copper-coloured blotches, covered with scales of hj-pertrophied cuticle. Or there may be an eruption of papulcB or pimples, varying in size from a pin’s head to a pea. These eruptions are succeeded merely by scabs or exfoliations of the cuticle. 2. Scaly Eruption (Lepra syphilitica) is an aggravated variety of the preceding. It begins w'ith an eruption of copper-coloured blotches, which become covered with scales of enlarged cuticle ;—these aa> succeeded by scabs, and, when they full off, by shallow ulcers with copper-coloured edges. 8. Vesicular Eruption (Rnpia.) Barge flattened bulhe, filled with serum, which gradually become purulent, and finally dry into scabs.