303 INFLAMMATION OF ARTERIES. .SECTION II.—OF INFLAMMATION OF ARTERIES.* / This is rather an uncommon and obscure disease. There are three forms of it : 1. Subacute Arteritis {Phlegmonous Arteritis, Guthrie) is a local form of inflammation, not extending any great distance. It produces redness and thickening of the artery, with effusion of lymph into its cavity, and coagulation of the blood within it. The symptoms are, tenderness and swelling of the affected artery, with violent pain, numbness, absence of arterial pulsation, and tendency to gangrene, in the parts supplied by it. The author lately treated a case in which, during convalescence from acute dysentery, a small portion of the axillary artery suddenly inflamed and became impervious. The arm and hand were cold and benumbed. The circulation through the affected vessel was restored in about three weeks. Mercury and other antiphlogistic remedies are most likely to be of use. 2. Acute Arteritis (Erysipelatous or itijfused Arteritis) has a ten- dency to spread, and involve the arterial system generally, and to produce rapid suppuration, and it is almost invariably fatal. It may be idiopathic, or it may be caused by a wound. It is known by very violent fever, and great throbbing of the arteries ; succeeded by symptoms of irritative or typhoid fever ; with livid vesications on dif- ferent parts of the body. If the disease originate in a wound, there will probably be gangrene. Treatment must be antiphlogistic, without reducing the patient too low. In a case of severe and rapidly fatal inflammation of the chest, the aorta was found to participate in the inflamniation, and there was an effusion of adherent lymph on its inner surface, nearly blocking up the left subclavian artery. This is believed to be not an uncommon cause of embarrassed circulation towards the close of acute inflammation in the chest. A curious case has been recorded by Mr. Crisp {Lancet, 183S-C, vol. i. p. 534) of what seems to be rheumatic arteritis. A girl, aged 22, suffered from violent fever, fainting, profuse perspirations, great pain in the limbs, and tenderness in the course of the arteries. After some days, no pulse could be felt in the axillary from an inch below the clavicle, or in the popliteal. Both feet became gangrenous, especially the left, which was amputated below the knee eight months after- wards ; at the time of the operation no pulse could be felt in any of the extremities. Very little blood came from the larger arteries, and that not per saltum, but the smaller vessels bled profusely. On exa- mination of the log, the arteries seemed smaller than natural, but not otherwise diseased. In a somewhat similar case, recorded in tlie Pro- vincial Medical .Journal, 23d April, 1842, sudden obliteration of the left axillary artery, with intense pain and numbness of the arm, and • Guthrie, op. eit. Jlayo, Patliol. p. 447. Copland, Diet. Art. Arteries; and Hodgson on Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, Loud. 1815, p. 5.