487 UMBILICAL HERNIA. through this wound, along and close to the side of the hernial tumour, to its neck. On the finger, a bistouri cache is to be passed through the cribriform fascia, and through the crural canal, to the ring. “ By the least amount of force, and with the aid of a little gentle compression of the inner side of the tumour by the finger, the point of the bistoury may be insinuated between the sac, and the pubic margin of the ring ; the edge of the knife is then to be turned towards the pubes, and by projecting the blade the seat of stricture in that direction may be effectively divided.” If, after this, and after the division of any other stricture that may be felt around the neck of the sac, the hernia can- not be reduced, the incision can be enlarged, and the operation of opening the sac as usually directed, be performed.* SECTION VMI. OF THE UMBILICAL, VENTRAL, AND OTHER REMAINING SPECIES OP HERNIA. I. Umbilical Hernia—(exomplialos)—is, for obvious reasons, most frequent in children soon after birth. It is also not uncommon in women who have been frequently pregnant, although, in many of the so-called umbilical herniiE in adults, the hernial aperture is really not at the umbilicus, but a little on one side of it. The coverings of this hernia are skin, superficial fascia, and sac ; they are always very thin, and not unfrequently the sac is adherent to its contents. Treatment.—If reducible, and the patient an infant, the best plan is to place a hemisphere of ivory with its convex surface on the aperture, and retain it there with cross strips of plaster, and a bandage round the belly. A pad of linen, covered with sheet lead, wiU do as well. But the belly should by no means be bound up too tightly, otherwise there will be danger of producing inguinal hernia. An adult should wear a truss or broad belt, with some contrivance to prevent it from slipping down below its proper level. For the irreducible umbilical hernia, a large hollow pad should be worn. The reduction of this hernia is to be effected by the ordinary manual taxis ; but if it be very large. Sir A. Cooper recommends it to be compressed by a wooden platter. If it becomes strangulated, and the patient is aged, and the strangulation was preceded by constipation, purgatives and copious enemata should have a fair trial. If the operation is necessary, an incision three inches in length should be made at the upper part of the tumour through the skin, fascia, and sac, in succession. The stricture should then be dilated directly upwards in the linea alba with the knife recommended in other cases. But perhaps it is better to make the incision so as to divide the under side of the neck of the sac, as advised by Mr. Liston. II. Ventral Hernia is that which protrudes through i\\a linea alba, or through the linem semiliinares or trunsverscB, or in fact through * On Femoral Rupture, with a new mode of operating, <fec., by Jolin Gay, Lend. 1848.