377 CATAIiACT. of the same kind—that is, b}’ making another puncture of the cornea at a little distance above the first, and dragging up the upper margin of the slit with the hook. 3rdly. In cases where the pupil has closed after the removal of a cataract, whether in consequence of prolapse of the iris, or of inflam- mation and organization of lymph, an artificial pupil may be made, after Mr. H. Walton’s method, by dividing the iris perpendicularly through the cornea with a lancet-shaped knife of small dimensions. When the iris is sufficiently healthy, it retracts sufficiently on being divided; when it is much changed by inflammation, the iris is incised by a similar knife, rather nearer to its inner side, and the outer edge of the incision is dragged outwards with a blunt pick. Mr. Ilaj'nes AValton calls the foiiuer of these operations, the operation by incision, the latter, by incision with extension* But before resorting to any of these operations, it must be as- certained, 1st, whether the adhesions of the iris cannot be removed by mercurj’- or belladonna, or opacity of the cornea bj' external appli- cations, aided by time, which if the health be kept in good order, does much towards restoring every impaired organ to its normal condition; 2ndly, that the retina is perfectly sound; 3rdly, that all tendency to inflammation (syphilitic or otherwise) has ceased. It is not advisable to operate if one eye be quite sound ; and supposing one eye to be irrecoverably lost, it is not advisable to fonu an artificial pupil in the other, provided the patient find his way about with it. Moreover, the new pupil should be made large, because it will always contract somewhat afterwards. SECTION IX.—INFLAMMATION OF THE CAPSULE OP THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. V This is a verj' rare affection, and always chronic. Vision is con- fused,—objects looking as if they were seen through a fine gauze. On examining the eye with a strong lens in a good light, the pupil being well dilated with belladonna, a number of minute red vessels are seen in the pupil. If the anterior capsule be affected, the vessels form a circular wreath of vascular arches with the centre clear; if it be the posterior capsule, they are central and arborescent. The ills is always slightly discoloured and sluggish. Treatment.—Local or general bleeding; mercury, counter-irritation, change of air, and alteratives. SECTION X.—OF CATARACT. Definition.—An opacity of the crystalline lens or its capsule. Symptoms. — Before examining any patient with suspected cata- ract, the pupil should be dilated with belladonna, and then, if there • Vide Lecture, Med. Times for 1849, p. 331.