142 EFFECTS OF MINERAL AND VEGETABLE IRRITANTS. comljination of local stimulants and depletion. When there is much heat and itching, it is an excellent plan to apply a leech ;—or to make ' punctures with a needle or lancet. It would be impossible to name any stimulant that has not been recommended by the public or the profession. Perhaps the best is that proposed by Mr. Wardrop, and consisting of six parts of soap liniment, aiid one of tincture ofcantltarid.es, F. 146. But liniments of mustard, turpentine, camphorated spirit, and ammonia;—friction with snow;—strong brine, or, in fact, any ordinary stimulant, will answer the same purpose. Opiate applications are strongly recommended by Mr. Vincent. Whichever is chosen, it should bo used cold, with considerable friction, and should be strong enough to excite some increase of heat and smarting. If there are vesications, care must be taken not to break them; and the liniment must be applied lightly with a feather. If there are ulcers or sloughs, and they are attended with much heat, pain, and irritation, poultices are required. But as a general rule, poultices are too relaxing, and stimulating ointments or lotions (such as ung. resiticB, calamince, zinci, &c.) should be preferred. CHAPTER VII. OF THE EFFECTS OF MINERAL AND VEGETABLE IRRITANTS. General Observation.s.—These substances, considered with re- gard to their local effects, may be divided into two classes. First, those which produce inflammation of the animal tissues through their ten- dency to decompose them chemically. Sccotidly, those which operate by producing violent irritation, but which have no power of causing chemical decomposition. The first class comprehends the strong mineral acids;—the pure alkalis, or their carbonates; sundry metallic salts, such as corrosive sublimate, nitrate of silver, and butter of antimony;—and the concen- trated vegetable acids, especially the acetic and oxalic. The second class includes arsenic amongst minerals,—and the whole list of acrid plants, garlic, ranunculus, cuphorbium, and the like,— amongst vegetables. Acids.—The decomposing agency of the concentrated acids appears to depend mainly on their affinity for water. The sulphuric add blackens or chars the tissues in destroj'ing them ; that is, separates the water and other constituent elements, and sets free the carbon. The nitric turns them permanently yellow. The hydrocldoric leaves a dead white stain. The hydrofluoric “is, of all known substances,” says Turner, “ the most destructive. When a drop of the concentrated acid of the size of a pin’s-head, comes in contact with the skin, in- stantaneous disorganization ensues, and deep ulceration of a malignant