IMPERFORATE ANUS. 489 complained of great pain down the leg in the course of the obturator nerve. This might be an aid in the diagnosis. In a case in which Mr. Hilton laid open the abdominal cavity, and disengaged a knuckle of intestine from the obturator foramen, there were no symptoms that indicated the kind of obstruction met with.* VII. IscHiATic Herni.v protrudes through the sciatic notch. This and the preceding are exceedingly rare; and the tumours are of neces- sity small. If discovered to exist during life, they must be returned and supported by proper apparatus—and if strangulated, the stricture must be divided by operation. VIII. Diaphragmatic Hernia is generally a result of congenital deficiency, or accidental separation of the fibres of the diaphragm. But it may also be caused by violent falls on the abdomen, or by vio- lent pressure of any kind, capable of lacerating the diaphragm, and driving some of the bowels into the thorax.+ This form of hernia, if strangulated, will produce the ordinary symptoms—vomiting, consti- pation, and pain ; which are not in any manner to be distinguished from the symptoms of ileus or intus-susception—or from those pro- duced when a fold of bowel is entangled in a rent in the omentum, or mesentery; or when the bowel is constricted by membranous bands resulting from previous inflammation of the peritoiimum. CHAPTER XIX. OF THE SURGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. I. Foreign Bodie.s in the rectum sometimes require to be removed by surgical art. They may consist either of small bones or the like that have descended from above, or of pins, glyster-pipes, or other bodies introduced from below. Substances of very extraordinary dimensions (a blacking-bottle, for instance) have been forced into the anus. The grand point is first to dilate the bowel well, by passing in several fingers (oiled) or by means of a speculum ; and then a proper forceps, or a lithotomy scoop, may generally be used with success. II. Imperforate Anus {atresia ani) signifies a congenital closure of the rectum, and may occur in various degrees. The anus may be merely closed by thin, fine skin, which soon becomes distended with meconium; or the gut may terminate in a blind pouch at any point * Tliis ease, like most others, was unfortunately operated upon too late. The obstruction existed from the 20th Jaiiuaiy to the 1st February. Hilton, Wed. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi. p. 323. t Reid on Diaphragmatic Hernia, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. and July, 1840.