LIGATtrnE OF ARTERIES. 600 (in compliance with the rule of always securing a wounded artery by two ligatures, one above and one below the wounded part) to re^ch the wounded vessel by operation. The leading feature of this opera- tion is, the removal of the second molar tooth, and division of the lower jaw-bone, so that the angle of that bone may be everted, and room bo given for reaching the vessel. Mr. Mayo once tied this artery, and in order to reach it cut through the styloid process of tlie temporal bone.* III. The Lingual Artery may be tied by making a transverse incision along the os hyoides, from a little below the symphysis of the jaw to near the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The skin, platysma, and fascia being divided, the artery must be looked for where it lies upon the greater cornu of the os hyoides, below ;be digastric muscle and ninth nerve. This artery has been tied in cases of tumours and wounds of the tongue; but, considering the depth at which it lies from the surface,' the irregularity of its origin, and the important parts in its vicinity, it is much better, as a general rule, to tie the external or common carotid. IV. The Facial Artery may easily be tied by cutting through the skin and cellular tissue that cover it where it turns over the jaw, at the anterior border of the masseter; but such an operation can hardly ever be requisite. V. The Arteria Innominata has been tied in cases of aneurism of the right subclavian, extending inwards as far as the scalenus. The patient being placed on his back, with the shoulders raised and the head thrown back, one incision, two inches in length, is to be made along the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, terminat- ing at the clavicle, and another across the origin of that muscle, meeting the former at a right angle. The flap of integument thus formed is to bo turned up, and the sternal and part of the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid are to be divided on a director, which is to be passed behind the muscle, and kept as close to it as possible. The cellular tissue and fat which now appear, being turned aside, the sterno-hyoideus, and sterno-thyroideus muscles must be separatelj’’ divided on a director. A strong fascia, which next appears, must be cautiously scratched through, and the carotid be traced with the finger down to its origin. Then the vena innominata being depressed, a ligature may be carried from without inwards, round the artery, close to its bifurcation, taking care to avoid the vagus, recurrent, and cardiac nerves. VI. The Right Subclavian Artery, in the first part of its course, that is to say, between its origin from the innominata and the scalenus muscle, may be tied by an operation almost precisely similar to the latter; but it is the most difficult operation in surgerj% and the most unsuccessful. This ai-tery and the innominata have » For furlher particulars of Mr. Guthrie’s operation, see Lancet, 1850, vol. ii. p. 143.