SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 261 and the rapidity and sharpness of the pulse ; delirium, or typhoid symptoms, show great peril. Alorhid Anatomy.—In slight cases the synovial membrane is red- dened, and the joint contains a quantity of turbid serum. In very se- vere cases the membrane suppurates rapidly, and the cartilage entirely ulcerates (see paragraph III). In other severe but more protracted cases, the membrane becomes thickened, pulpy, and highly vascular; granulations form on its surface and project like fringes into the cavity of the joint and at the same time the cartilage ulcerates. Treatment.—In all cases arising from injury, the joint, or rather the whole limb should be confined by a splint, so as to keep it per- fectly motionless. This is indispensable; for the joint cannot be kept motionless without it. The best splint is very thick leather or paste- board which admit of being easily adapted to the surface of the joint when softened in warm water, but, during the acute stage a long wooden splint, properly padded, and arranged so that it may be fast- ened to the limb at some distance above and below, and so that it may not touch the joint itself. If the knee is the part affected it should not be allowed to become bent on the thigh, or if it is already bent, it should be brought as nearly straight as possible. The other measures are bleediny from the arm, if the patient is robust, and the joint im- portant ; if not, leeches in abundance to the joint, or cupping near it; ice, evaporating lotions, or warm poppy fomentations, according to the patient’s choice ; a good dose of calomel, followed by saline purgatives, till the motions are no longer dark and offensive; perhaps calomel, with opium, in moderate doses every four hours, till the mouth begins to suffer; and opiates at night to relieve pain. A warm poultice of camomile Howers, boiled till they are quite soft, or bran poultice, sprinkled with laudanum; or cotton wool covered with oiled silk, will generally be found more soothing than cold applications. Blisters, it need scarcely be said, are inapplicable till the acute stage is subsiding. When the disease is manifestly connected with rheumatism—when it is attended with red sediment in the urine and acid perspirations, and affects several joints, and extends to the synovial sheaths of ten- dons, colchicura should be administered, or the iodide of potassium with alkalis. F. 69, 94. But when only two or three joints are affected, or when there has been a manifest translation of the disease from some internal part, or from one joint to another. Sir B. Brodie prefers the use of calomel and opium in moderate doses, till the mouth is affected. When there is a tendency to gout, and the patient com- plains of grinding, excruciating pain, as if the joint were torn asunder, the colchicum is also the main remedj'. In syphilitic cases (which will be known by the patient’s general history, by his wan peculiar appearance, and most likely by the existence of papular or other eruptions, vide p. 191), mercury may be tried, if it lias never before been given to excess; but if it has, or if the constitution is broken down, recourse may be had to the iodide of potassium in doses of gr. iii. ter die, with a small dose of colchicum and opium at night; and