130 TREATMENT OP GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. they are to be left to themselves. The cyst that envelopes them is frequently so dense, and adheres so firmly, that a portion of it must be removed at the same time. If a ball has lodged in the substance of a bone, it should be removed by a chisel, or trephine; otherwise caries, or necrosis, and so much mischief as to necessitate amputation, may follow. In a few rare cases, however, balls have remained imbedded in bone, without mis- chief. Secondary IIasmorrhage.—The first three varieties of secondary hmraorrhagc, described at p. 127, require the ligature; the fourth is to be treated by rest, by the application of cold or iced water, or by ice itself;—b}' pressure on the bleeding surface, or on the arterial trunks above;—and if the blood seem to ooze from any particidar spot, it may be touched with nitrate of silver. If there be fever and ple- thora, bleeding and purging;— if weakness and irritability, tonics, opiates, and the mineral acids;—and, in all cases, removal from a crowded hospital will be expedient. Necessity of Amputation.—It will not be wondered at, that this operation will be frequently required in gun-shot injuries of the limbs, on account of the fracture and comminution of bones, the exposure of joints, the division of blood-vessels, and the irreparable violence in- flicted on the skin and soft parts. The points for consideration in detennining its necessity are two- fold ;—viz. 1 St, Would the preservation of the limb endanger the patient’s life?—and, 2ndl3% supposing that it would not, would the limb be of use, if saved ? In deciding on the first point, we must be guided by the patient’s age ; for an old person would succumb to an injury that a young one might recover from;—by his habits,— for temperance, sobriety, and a well-disciplined mind, will be greatly in his favour;—by previous disease,—for (as has already been insisted on*) if there be organic disease of any viscus, the patient will be infinitely more liable to sink ;—lastly, by the supply of necessaries, and extent of accommodation;—hence, in compound fractm'es, and other cases demanding perfect quietude, many more limbs may be saved in civil practice than in the accidents of naval and military warfare. Primary or Secondary?—But, supposing amputation to bo de- cidedly required,—that the limb, if preserv'ed, could be but a burden to the patient, and that the attempt to preserve it would endanger his life ;—the question next arises, whether amputation ought to be primary ; that is, performed within the first forty-eight hours, before fever and inflammation have set in; — or whether it ought to be secondary; that is, delayed till inflammation has subsided, and sup- puration is established,—which is not generally the case in less than from three to six weeks. Now this question is one which cannot be decided by argument, * Part I. chap. i.