140 THE EFFECTS OF COLD. Italy. * Tliose who indulge in spirituous liquors, exhausted as they are by perpetual stimulation, are much more liable to suffer than the temperate. It was shown by Hunter that the ears of rabbits and combs of cocks may be frozen so as to be quite white and hard and brittle, and 3mt re- cover with proper care. And some of the lower orders of animals may be entirelj’- frozen and yet survive. But it is not credible that a whole limb of a human being, much less that the whole bodj’-, could be frozen without death ensuing; although stories of such occurrences have long been current amongst authors.+ Treatment.—The indications of treatment whenever a part or the whole of the body has been exposed to severe cold, are, 1 st. To pro- duce moderate reaction, and restore the circulation and sensibility; 2ndlj% To avoid arcessive reaction, which would surelj' lead to violent and dangerous inflammation. Of Frost-bite.—The best remedy for a frost-bite is to rub the part well with snow. After a time cold water raaj^ be substituted for the snow, and the friction may be rendered brisker. These applications must be made in a room without a fire ; and a high, or even a moder- ate, temperature must be avoided for some time. By these means no other inconvenience will ensue, save slight swelling and tingling, with vesication and desquamation of the cuticle ; although the part will remain weak and sensible to cold for some time. For the coma induced by cold the treatment must be similar. At first the body should be rubbed with snow;—afterwards, when its warmth and sensibilitj' are a little restored, it should be wiped quite dry, and be rubbed with fur or flannel. Then the patient should be put into a cold bed in a room without a fire, a stimulant enema should be administered, and a little warm wine and water, verj' we.ik, be given as soon as he can swallow. The enema ma}' be composed of water and salt, with a little oil of turpentine ; but tobacco, which was formerly recommended by the profession in such cases, and is still V \ popularly considered to be of great service, must not be thought of;— it would surelj' be prejudicial—perhaps deadlJ^ The after-treatment must be entirely regulated by the state of the patient:—the strength must be supported by mild cordials and nutriment; care being taken not to excite feverishness or headache. The contact of any intensely cold body (such as frozen mercurj') causes severe burning pain, followed by vesication. It thus appears that the effects of sudden abstraction may be similar to those of too great communication of heat. The best application is snow gradually permitted to thaw. Violent Gangrenous Inflamiuation may be caused, if heat is injudiciously applied to frozen or frost-bitten parts. It may also * Lan-ey, Mom. do Cbir. Mil. tom. iv. p. 111. t See an account of some cxporiment.s on tlie revival of toads after freezing, in the Loud, and Ed. Journ. Mod. Sc., Feb. 1843.