28,5 DISLOCATIONS OP THE WRIST. 4. In dislocation backwards of tlie ulna solely, tlie olecranon is much projected backwards ; tlie elbow is immoveably bent at right angles, and the fore-arm is much twisted and pronated. The treatment of these four varieties is the same. Reduction may- be effected, first, by fixing the lower end of the humerus whilst the fore-arm is drawn forwards ; or secondly, the surgeon may bend the elbow forcibly over his knee ; or thirdly (if the case be quite recent), he may forcibly straighten the arm, so as to make tlie tendon of the biceps pull the trochlea of the humerus back into its place. 5. The head of the radius alone may be dislocated foncurds, being thrown against the external condyle. The elbow is slightly bent, and, in bending it more, the head of the radius can be felt to strike .gainst the front of the humerus. Treatnvent.—Simple extension from the hand, the elbow being straight. 6. Dislocation of the radius bachcards is very rare. The head of the bone can be felt behind the outer condyle. Reduced by simply bending the arm, which should be kept bent for three weeks. Diaynosis.—These dislocations of the elbow may be distinguished from fractures of the lower extremity of the humerus, 1. by the im- paired mobility of the joint, and by the absence of crepitus ; 2. by measuring the length of the humerus from its condyles to the shoulder; which, in dislocation, will be equal to that of the sound limb, but will be diminished in fr.acture of the lower extremity of the humerus. But when it is considered that these six dislocations may.be com- bined with various fractures of the condyles of the humerus and of the bones of the fore-arm, it will be admitted that the injuries of the elbow present a sufficiently wide and complicated field of study. V. Dislocations of the Wrist may readily be distinguished by the altered position of the hand, which is thrown either backwards or forwards if both bones be dislocated,' or twisted if onlj' one be dis- placed,—and by the alteration of the natural relative position of the