289 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. turned inwards, but not so mucb as in the last case; the trochanter is rather behind its natural position, and the head of the bone can scarce!}' be felt. Treatment.—Pullej’s are required, as in the last case ; but the pa- tient should be placed on the sound side, and the limb be drawn across the middle of the opposite thigh. After a little while the upper part of the limb should be lifted by means of a napkin, so as to raise the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum,* the thigh being at the same time rotated outwards. 3. In the dislocation doxvnwards, the head of the bone is thrown into the thyroid foramen, or on the obturator exter- nus. The symptoms are as follow :—the limb is lengthened one or two inches ; it is drawn away from the other ; the toes point down- wards and directly for- wards ; and the body is bent forwards, be- cause the psoas muscle is on the stretch. Treatment.—The ob- ject is to draw the head of the bone outwards, and rather upwards. There are two methods • The above account is condensed from Sir A. Cooper, op. cit. cliap. ii. sect. iv. Mr. Richard Quain has published (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi.) an account of a careful dissection of a recent case of this injury, and of experiments made to determine the exact relation of the visible dcfoihuity, to the true posi- tion of the head of the bone; and has concluded that in the ordinary form of this dislocation, the head of the femur does not reach the sciatic notch, but is lodged immediately behind the acetabulum, over the base of the isChiatic spine, and opposite to a small part of each of the two sacro-sciatic foramina ; that the advanced po.sition of the displaced limb at the kuee, and the situation of the foot with “ the too resting against the gi’eat toe of the other foot” are not neces- sarily present ; that during the extension the thigh should be at a right angle with the abdomen, and in a state of abduction ; that the extending force should be applied above the knee ; and that this joint should be bent in order to relax the sciatic nerve, which runs either immediately bdforo or behind the displaceil head of the bone. U