BUBO. 189 SECTION VI.—OF BUBO. Definition.—Bubo signifies an inflamed lymphatic vessel or gland leading from a venereal ulcer. Causes.—Any local irritation \vill, in certain habits, cause inflam- mation of the lymphatics;—in gonorrhoea, for instance, the glands in the groin are apt to swell. But the genuine syphilitic bubo arises from absorption of the poisonous secretions of a chancre; and the ordinary time of its appearance is, just as the ulcerative stage of the chancre is ceasing. Varieties.—(1.) Bubo of the Penis consists of an inflamed lym- phatic vessel on the penis. (2.) Acute bubo at the groin generally affects only one gland, and pursues the course of an ordinary acute abscess. The cellular tissue between the gland and the skin is the common seat of suppuration, but there may also be a small abscess in the centre of the gland, aris- ing no doubt from the absorption and transmission of poisonous matter, and the pus of this latter is alone capable of producing a chancre by inoculation. (3.) Indolent or chronic bubo very commonly affects more than one gland. It occurs in weak, scrofulous habits, and especially in persons worn out by the improper administration of mercury. The glands slowly enlarge ; suppuration is slow and imperfect, and commences at several points. The skin is long before it inflames, but when it does so, a large tract of it becomes of a dusky bluish tint; the mat- ter spreads widely;—and at last large portions of the skin perish by ulceration or sloughing, leaving an extensive sore that may be months in healing. Diagnosis.—If a bubo at the groin affect one gland only, and that above Poupart’s ligament, it is most probably caused by chancre on the penis, provided there be, or has been, one. But if many glands are swelled, and they are below the level of Poupart’s ligament, the swelling is probably caused by some irritation about the foot. But the only sure diagnosis of a syphilitic bubo is, that, if the matter taken from it be inoculated, it will produce a chancre;—or that the sore pro- duced by opening the bubo presents the elevated edges and copper- coloured margin of a chancre. As, however, every bubo is attended with suppuration of the surrounding cellular tissue, the surgeon should recollect that some of the matter taken when it is first opened may not cause chancre by inoculation. It has been supposed by some surgeons, that the syphilitic virus, if applied to the skin of the penis, might bo taken uj) bj' the absor- bents and produce a bubo in the groin without having first caused a chancre. Such supposed cases are called bubon d 'emblcc by the French. But though it is very certain that the inguinal glands are apt to in- flame and suppurate, if a person of bad constitution, who is disposed