TREATMENT OF SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 195 so much the betterbut if the patient gets thinner, weaker, and haggard, and suffers from chills or feverishness, or if his ulcers be- come irritable and phagedamic, it must be given up. The mercurial vapour bath, or the corrosive sublimate in very small doses, and not carried to the extent of affecting the mouth, will often be of great service when a full course of the mineral is inapplicable, F. 86. The iodide of potassium is the remedy next in efficacy to mer- cury, and should be administered when the fomier is deemed inex- pedient. Sometimes it is usefid to combine it with iodine, F. 08, &c. Sarsaparilla, F. 82, &c., is a remedy that may almost always be used with advantage. It may be combined with corrosive sublimate or the iodide of potassium; or may be administered after a course of those remedies, to restore the flesh and strength. The mineral acids, especially the nitric;—sedatives, especially hyoscyamus and conium, F. 34 ;—tonics, F. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ;—and tartar emetic in minute doses, F. 68, will be all of service in protracted cases. In these the surgeon will find it necessary to change and vary his reme- dies repeatedly. The main object should be to improve the general look and condition of the patient,—to treat S3-mptoms,—never to push a remedy, if it does manifest harm, under the vague idea that it is specific ; and, never to attempt to produce sudden benefit by large doses of mercury, or other violent remedies, which may weaken or impair the constitution. Local Treatment.— For syphilitic eruptions, the warm, vapour, and sulphur baths will be often expedient. Obstinate patches of lepra or pimples m.aj' sometimes have their removal hastened by ung. hj'dr. nitratis diluted, or the ung. hydr. precipitati albi, or the ung. picis. Itching eruptions maj^ often be relieved by a weak lotion of corro- sive sublimate. Ulcers must be treated according to their condition —whether inflamed, irritable, or indolent. In general, weak mercu- rial applications, such as black wash, or weak red precipitate ointment, answer best. f Condylomata are, according to Ricord, best treated by washing them ) with a solution of chloride of soda, and then sprinkling calomel over - I them, and applying dry lint. Calomel ointment answers as well. For the common excoriated sore throat, any soothing detergent gargle will do.—F. 107, 108. When there are ulcers, it is advisable to use gargles of corrosive sublimate (F. 112); and when the ulcers are indolent thej' maj' be touched with the linimentum cnrut/inis. Mercurial fumigation is also occasionally of benefit. It is effected by putting a scruple of red sulphuret, or of the common black oiryde., or twice the quantity of mercury with chalk on a heated iron in a proper apparatus, and inhaling the vapour—a heated pennypiece in a teacup will answer the purpose. When a foul ulcer is seated on the velum, or roof of the mouth, or pharynx, or aim nasi, an attempt may be made to check its ravages, by destroying its surface and edges with nitric acid.