530 LITHOTRITY. of the urine; 2. to allay pain and irritation ; 3. to remove the stone. The first and second are to be accomplished by measures which have been already spoken of when treating of gravel and of chronic inflam- mation of the bladder. The third may be executed in four ways, viz., 1, by extraction of the stone through the urethra; 2, solution of it by injections ; 3, lithotrity, and 4, lithotomy. 1. Extraction by the Urethra.—When a stone is known to have recently escaped from the ureter into the bladder, the first point is to remove all irritability of the bladder by sedatives, and by restoring the proper condition of the urine, so that there may be no spasm to obstruct its passage into the urethra. The patient also should drink plentifully, so that the bladder may be quite filled. Then, when he is going to make water, he should be instructed to lie on his face, and to grasp the penis so that the urethra may become distended with urine; and thus, very probably, the sudden gush that will come, when he relinquishes his grasp of the penis, will bring the stone with it. In some cases the urethra may be dilated by passing bougies. But should this plan not succeed after some days, Weiss’s urethral forceps should be tried. The patient being placed on his back with his pelvis raised, a catheter is to be introduced to draw off the urine, and five or six ounces of tepid water are to be injected afterwards. Next the forceps, being introduced, is to be made to feel for the stone, and the blades are to be cautiously opened over it and made to seize it. An inde.x on the handle of the forceps \vill now show the size of the stone. If small, it maybe extracted at once ; if very large, it must be left where it is; if of a doubtful size, it may perhaps be brought into the mem- branous portion of the urethra, whence it can be extracted by in- cision. 2. Solution by injections.—Sir B. Brodie has satisfactorily shown that pliosphatic calculi may sometimes be dissolved altogether, and sometimes be so disintegrated or reduced in size that they may escape through the urethra by means of injections of very dilute nitric acid passed through a double gold catheter in the manner directed for chro- nic cystitis. At the same time, these injections diminish the secretion of mucus, which is the source of the phosphate of lime. Oxalic calculi appear to resist the action of all solvents. The disintegration of lithic calculi by solutions of alkalis, or of borax, or by Vichy water, has been the subject of numerous experiments ; but the results cannot yet be spoken of as more than encouraging to perseverance.* SECTION XII.—OF LITHOTRITY. It need scarcely be said, that the object of this operation is to reduce stones in the bladder into fragments of so small a size, that they may be readily expelled through the urethra. The apparatus by which this object was first accomplished by * Vide the case of D. B. Jacob, at p. 29 of Dr. Willis’s work on Stone.