FRACTURE OF THE SKULL. 333 well known, injury of one side of the brain produces palsy of the op- posite side of the body. The trephine should be rather large, because the blood is almost always found coagulated. Perhaps the inner table may be found e.Ktensively fractured, with only a mere fissure of the outer table. The skull is said always to bleed very little when scraped at the seat of effusion between it and the dura-mater, because it is de- prived of its supply of blood from that membrane. This, therefore, is an important diagnostic sign ; and in a desperate case it might be advisable to cut through the scalp, and examine the bone at any part where mischief is suspected to exist. When a piece of bone has been removed, the dura-mater, in its normal state, is found to be level, and of a reddish silvery colour, and it rises and falls synchronously with the motions of respiration ; but if there is fluid underneath, it bulges up tightl_y into the aperture made by the trephine, and its motions are very indistinct or entirely lost. In this latter case a puncture should be made to let the fluid escape ; and numerous instances are on record in which, after the sur- geon has punctured the distended dura-mater, and some ounces of blood have escaped, the patient has recovered his consciousness imme- diately.* SECTION IV.— FRACTURE OP THE SKULL. Fractures of the skull are divided, 1. into those which consist of a mere crack or fissure without displacement ; 2. into fractures with extravasation of blood, which generally accompanies fracture of the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and which was spoken of in the last chapter ; and 3. into fractures with depression. Fracture of the base o f the skull is the most dangerous kind. It is caused when the patient falls from a height, and pitches on his head ; the basilar process being snap- ped through by the weight of the whole body, which tells upon it through the spinal column. In these cases there is frequently a copious venous hiemorrhage from the ears, in conse- quence of laceration of the sinuses at the base of the brain. This is a most unfavourable sjnnptom ; although a slight haemorrhage from the Guthrie, op. cit. pp. 39, 125. Broclie, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv.