211 TUMOURS OF BURSiE. ganglion seems to be, either to puncture it with a grooved needle, or else to make a subcutaneous incision into the sac; that is, to introduce a needle with a cutting point, and to turn the point against the inside of the sac and divide it; without, however, making a larger wound in the skin than is necessary to introduce the needle. The object of these operations is to empty the sac, and form an aperture by which its contents may henceforth pass into the cellular tissue and be ab- sorbed. As soon as it is emptied, constant pressure should be applied by means of compress and bandage, which may be wetted with cold lotion if agreeable. (2.) If this plan fails, recourse may be had to blisters, friction with mercurial and other stimulating liniments ; or Scott’s ointment, F. 1 CO, or the iodine paint, F. 89, with a view of exciting absorption. (3.) In obstinate cases it is a good plan to dissect out the cyst of the ganglion—provided that it is formed of a mere bursa, (as over the patella or olecranon,) and has no connexion with the sheaths of tendons. (4.) But if the bursa is large or deeply seated, as over the angle of the scapula, it should be punctured with a lancet, when it may probably inflame and suppurate, and heal up like an ab- scess. (5.) In obstinate cases, especially if the cyst is much thickened, Mr. Key recommends a puncture to be made, and a few threads of silk to be passed through the sac as a seton. This will create great suppuration and constitutional disturbance for a time, but it will de- stroy the secreting power of the sac, and effect a radical cure. The less, however, that the sheaths of the flexors of the wrist are meddled with, whether by puncture or seton, the better. Mr. Wickham strongly recommends the vapour bath, or local steam bath, as a means of getting rid of thickness and stiffness after these operations. Lastly, any rheumatic or gouty tendency should be corrected by pro- per medicines. XL Acute Inflammation of Bursae is most frequently exempli- fied in the affection called the housemaid's knee,—which is an acute infiammation of the bursa, that intervenes between the patella and skin,—common enough in that class of females, from kneeling on hard damp stones. It causes very great pain, swelling, and fever ; it may be distinguished from acute inflammation of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, by observing that the swelling is very superficial, and in front of the patella, which is obscured by it; whereas in inflamma- tion of the sj'novial membrane of the knee, the patella is thrown for- wards, and the swelling is most prominent at the sides. Treatment.— Rest, leeches, fomentations, and purgatives; by which if the pain and swelling are not relieved, it must be punctured, and treated as an acute abscess.* XII. Loo.SE Cartilages are sometimes formed in the synovial sheaths of the hand and foot. Their origin, symptoms, and treatment are the same as when they are found in joints. * Wickham, Cyclopiedia Pract. Surg. Art. Bursa>.