TREATMENT OF SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 19C Ulceration of the larynx is occasionally benefited by similar fumi- gation; but mercury so as to affect the mouth is almost always inju- rious ;—as it is in other cases of rapid ulceration. Sarsaparilla and sedatives, blisters to the throat and occasional leechings, swabbing with solution of arg. nit., and the operation of tracheotomy^, if the breathing becomes much embarrassed, are the necessary' measures. The pain of nodes is often relieved by blisters, and so are rheumatic pains of venereal origin. Sometimes it is useful to dress the blistered surfaces with strong mercurial ointment and opium. Acute inflamma- tion of the periosteum or pericranium, is sometimes relieved by a rapid administration of calomel and opium ; although in venereal disease of hone, the use of mercury requires the greatest caution, and is only admissible if the patient has a sound constitution, and has never taken a course of it. It is peculiarly noxious when there is caries of the bones of the nose. When nodes are very tense and full of fluid, it may be necessary to puncture them, but this should be avoided if pos- sible. If during secondary' sy'phiHs, the nose becomes tender or painful, the greatest benefit will be derived from the application of one or two leeches twice or three times a week to the inside of the affected nos- tril. At the same time, the patient should take plenty of sarsaparilla, with small doses of iodide of potassium, and should have the benefit of country air, and a nutritious diet. By these means, any further mis- chief will sometimes be averted. If, however, ulceration does occur, it is of the utmost consequence to remove any' loose or carious portions of bone, as soon as possible. Syphilis of Children.—When a man labours under constitu- tional syphilis, it is probable that he may communicate it to his wife ; but, at all events, if the wife has it, she may communicate it to the foetus. The consequence is sometimes that the infant dies about the fourth or fifth month, and the woman miscarries repeatedly. Some- times a child is born weakly and shrivelled, with hoarse voice, dis- charge from the nostrils, and copper-coloured blotches or ulcers, espe- cially about the anus and pudenda. Sometimes, again, it is born healthy, but these symptoms appear a month afterwards. Lastly', a child may be inflicted with primary syphilis diming its birth. The parents in these cases should take a course of mercury, and be treated in other respects for secondary sy'philis. And for the children, the best plan is to rub ten grains of mercurial ointment daily into the axilla, or soles of the feet, or to administer half a grain or a grain of hyd. c. creta every night till the symptoms disappear. The prognosis is always favourable; and although the symptoms arc apt to recur once or twice, they are in general easily removed by a short repetition of the remedy.