MALIGNANT GROWTUS. 103 Causes.—The cause of this perversion is some ill-understood con- stitutional diathesis, which is very frequently congenital, and inherit- ed, but sometimes appears to arise from various causes that impair the vital energy ; of which, mental an.viety and depression are the best established. Local Origin.—When this diathesis is strong, malignant disease may break out spontaneously in one or more tissues or organs ;—when not so strong, its development may be aided by local irritation, or injury, Contagiousness. —1\\Q older writers believed that the discharge from cancerous ulcers was contagious. All attempts, however, to propagate the disease by inoculation have failed of late years, and therefore the modern opinion is the reverse. Mode of Deposit.—Malignant growths may be deposited in two forms ; \dz. either in one or more distinct tuberous masses ,• or else the morbid growth mav be infiltrated through the tissues of an organ ; the proper substance of the organ being gradually replaced by the morbid growth, although the form may for a time be little altered. Groivth.—'When malignant growths are once formed, thej^ increase in size by the peiqietual development of new cells; and these pro- gressively infiltrate the parts adjoining. They are supplied with fresh material by blood-vessels, which permeate their interstices in more or less abundance. Destruction.—After a certain time the older portions of a malignant growth lose their vitality and soften down, and the skin or mucous membrane covering them ulcerates to allow of their discharge. Atrophy.—It appears certain, however, that malignant growths may, in rare cases, undergo a process of atrophj', and not proceed to these destructive changes. (1.) The cancer-cells may cease to propagate ; and the growth shrink, and leave a puckered fibrous cicatri.v. (2.) The cancer-cells may undergo a fatty degeneration. This not unfre- quently occurs in portions of an old scirrhous growth, producing some- times distinct yellow masses, composed of disintegrated cancer-cells and fat, sometimes a yellow reticulum, which was described by Muller as one variety of cancer. This form of atrophy seldom aft'ects an entire cancerous growth ; so that some parts spread though others have de- caj'ed. (3.) Malignant growths, like tubercle, may become atro- phied and leave nothing but their mineral constituents in the form of a putty-like or chalky mass, with the skin puckered over it. 'Varieties.—There are three varieties of malignant disease, viz. scirrhus ; medullary sarcoma ; and colloid. That they are very nearly allied to each other is shown by the circumstance that two or more of them may aflect different organs in the same individual ; or may even exist together in one tumour ; and that if one variet}’ be extirpated, another may make its appearance in the cicatrix. But it does not seem probable that they are identical, or that one can be transformed into another by any process of development. If of the three consti- tuents of malignant growths, the fibrous element predominates, the