237 FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. may be reduced, either by patting the knee between the scapulaj and drawing the shoulders backwards; or by placing the elbow close to the trunk and a little forwards, and then pushing it up- wards. To support the parts during the cure, the most common apparatus is, Tlie stellate, or fiyure of 8 bandage, represented in the cut. In the first place a thick wedge-shaped pad must be put into the a.xilla, with the large end uppermost. Then a long roller must be passed over each shoulder alternate- ly, and be made to cross on the back. In the ne.xt place, the arm must be confined to the side by two or throe turns of the roller; and lastly, the elbow should be well raised by a sling, which is also to support the forearm. It will be noticed, that the shoulder is kept tqj by the sling, out by the pad, and back by the bandage. The same objects may be gained by means of three handkerchiefs, one to act as the pad in the axilla; another for a sling ; and the third to keep the arm close to the body—the whole being stitched together. Another simple contrivance,invented by Mr. James Duncan for the same purpose, is a strip of jean about a yard long, of the shape repre- sented in the next figure. The elbow is fixed in the hole; the smaller straps pass back and front of the chest and are buckled over the op- posite shoulder; and the broad part is buckled round the chest, con- fining the arm to the side. The whole being in one piece cannot slip, and is very available for children. In ordinary cases the patient may be allowed to walk about in a week or ten days, and the cure will be comiileted in a month or five weeks. The patient should be infonned that some little irregularity is apt to remain. If, however, there is any difficulty in maintaining a proper position, the patient must be confined to bed, and some additional apparatus be employed. The simplest is a straight splint across the shoulders, to which they are to be bound by the figure of 8 bandage ; or a splint shaped like a T, of which the horizontal part is bound to the shoulders ; and the vertical