ISFLAM5IATI0N OF TUE EYE. 3()1 SECTION IV.— OF INFLASIMATION OP THE EVE GENEIIALLV, AND OF THE DISEASES OF THE CONJUNCTIVA. I. Co.'M.MON ACUTE OPHTHALMIA coiisists of inflammation of the conjunctiva, ^jjmploiiis.— Smarting, heat, stiflhess, and dryness of the eye. with a feeling as if dust had got into it; the conjunctiva of a bright scarlet redness; the redness superficial, so that the enlarged vessels can be moved by pulling the eyti-lids; slight intolerance of light and flow of tears on e.xposuro of the eye, and more or less headache and fever, (aufcs.—Slight local irritation, disorder of the digestive organs, or cold and damp. Cuturrlial Oplilktlinia is a variety of this inflammation, caused by cold and damp, and attended with a thin mucous discharge, which in severe cases becomes thick, purulent, and doubtless con- tagious. Tnutnient.—A dose of calomel followed by black draught, and pre- ceded by an emetic if the stomach is very foul; the eye to be frequently bathed with poppy decoction, or the weaker forms of F. 140, luke- warm or cold, ticcording to the patient’s choice; the edges of the eye- lids to be smeared at night with frc.sh lard, and with weak ung. hydr. nit. ox. after the first day or two ; a green shade to be worn over both eyes, whilst there is much intolerance of light; but the patient not to bo confined to the house too long, unless the case is very severe, or the weather bad] In the catairiial variety, a large drop of solution of arg. nit. (gr. ij.—iv. ad ^i.) may be put into the eye twice or thrice a day. If there is much pain, leeches may be applied to the temples ; and if the patient is plethoric, and there is much headtiche and fever, bleeding and calomel in rcpetited doses may be required. But it is ti great mistake to treat common inflammation of the conjunctiva, when it occurs to delicate subjects, by lowering measures. After the bowels’ are cleared, a good diet, and exposure to moderate light and cool air, and an astringent lotion, will do more good than black draughts, leeches, and green shtides. II. Infi.a.mmation of the whole Eye is a rare disease. It may be caused by severe injuries, or surgical operations, or may be a consetiuence of the common ophthalmia, if neglected. The symptoms are, great redness and swelling of the conjunctiva ; intense pain, both burning, aching, and throbbing; intolerance of light, dimness of vision, and severe headache and fever. It may lead to sup]uiration of the whole globe; nr toopacitj' of the cornea and lens,adhesions of the iris, insensibility of the retina, and atrojihy of the whole globe. The treat- ment must be decidedly antiphlogistic ; and if it be clear that suppu- ration within the eyeball has occurred—there being rigours—the cornea yellow and distended, and e.xcruciating pain unrelieved by further depletion, a free incision should be made into the cornea to let the matter escape. III. CiiiioNic iNFLA.'\niATiON OF THE CONJUNCTIVA may be a