GASTROTOJir. 465 to afford an exit for the faeces. The external opening is irregular, everted, and red, and the surrounding skin excoriated. The aperture in the intestine adheres by its margin to the peritonaeum, so that extravasation into the abdomen is prevented. That portion of intes- tine which is immediately above the aperture, and that portion which is immediately below it, meet at the artificial anus at a more or less acute angle, and present two orifices ; one by which matters descend from the stomach, and another which leads down to the rectum. These two orifices are separated by a sort of crescent-shaped septum, formed by a projection of the mesenteric side of the bowel opposite to the aperture. Now it may readily be understood that the greater the aperture in the bowel, the more acute will be the angle at which the upper and lower portions meet, and the greater will the septum also be; and that, if the septum is large, it will act as a valve, and close up the orifice of the lower portion of bowel, causing any matters that come down through the upper portion to escape externally, instead of passing into the lower.* The conso(iuefices of this affection may be, 1 st. that the patient ma}' die of starvation, from the escape of the chyle, if the aperture is near the duodenum. 2ndly, that a portion of the intestine may protrude and form a hernia; besides the constant disgusting annoyance occa- sioned bj^ the escape of frecal matter and flatus. Treatment.—If the affection is of recent origin, and especially if it is consequent upon strangulated hernia, the patient should remain in bed, and great care should be taken to keep the parts clean ; and then, perhaps, the external aperture may contract and cicatrize. If the latter is very small, and if the passage between it and the bowel is of some length (a state of parts termed fcecal fistula), something may perhaps be done by compression, or by engrafting a piece of skin over the aperture ; or by making an oval incision in the skin on each side of the aperture, and bringing the outer edges of the incision to- gether by means of needles and the twisted suture ; or by applying the actual canter}- to the margin of the wound. But if the loss of substance in the bowel is considerable, and the projecting septum large, the chance of recovery is not great. A pad of simple linen or lint may be worn to compress the aperture, and pre- vent discharge from it, or sometimes a hollow truss with a leathern or horn receptacle, may be used with advantage. Enemata are useful in all cases. JMoreover, a tent may be thrust into both internal orifices, in order to enlarge the lower one, and repress the septum, as proposed by Dessault. As a last resource, a small portion of the septum may be nipped and strangulated by the forceps invented by Dupuytren for that purpose. VII. Gastkotomv.—There is a class of cases of obstruction of the intestines, in which it is found after death, that the mischief has been • Vide tlie cliajiter on Artificial Anus in Lawrence on Heniia, and Dupuytren in Diet, do ilcd. tom. iii. U II