471 IKREDtJCIBLE HERNIA. Radical Cure.—If tlie patient is below the age of pubert)", or not much above it, and if the hernia has not existed very long, it is proba- ble that the truss, if constantly worn, may effect a permanent cime. The herniary aperture, no longer subject to distension, may become firml}' closed, and the neck of the sac obliterated. This cure may perhaps occur in two or three years, but, as a measure of precaution, the truss should be worn for two or three years more. One or two measures for the radical cure of inguinal hernia will be mentioned in their proper place. SECTION III.—OF THE IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. Definition.—Hernia is said to be irreducible when the protruded viscera cannot be returned into the abdomen, although there is no impediment to the passage of their contents, or to their circulation. Causes.—Hernia may be rendered irreducible, 1, by an adhesion of the sac to its contents, or of the latter to each other, or by mem- branous bands formed across the sac. 2. By enlargement of the omentum or mesentery —whether from simple deposition of fat, or from sarcomatous or other organic change. 3. Omental hernia may be rendered irreducible by a contraction of that portion which lies in the neck of the sac, so that it is not stiff enough to stand against the pressure intended to push it back into the abdomen, but doubles up under it. Conscxjuenccs.—Irreducible hernia may produce sundry inconve- niences. In the first place, the patient is often liable to dragging pains in the abdomen, or perhaps attacks of vomiting, which come on after food, or when he assumes the erect posture, because the pro- , truded omentum or intestines, being fixed, resist all distension or up- ward movement of the stomach. These inconveniences will be greatly aggravated, if the patient increase in corpulency, or become pregnant. Moreover, the protruded bowels being deprived of the support natu- rally afforded them by the abdominal muscles, their fieculent contents are apt to lodge in them, and frequently cause colic or constipation. Lastly, the bowel is greatly exposed to external injury, and in con- stant hazard of strangulation. Trealmeut. — This may be either palliative or radical. 1. The palliative treatment consists in applying a hollow bag truss, or else a truss with a hollow pad that shall firmly embrace the hernia, and prevent any additional protrusion. The patient should avoid all violent exertion or excess in diet, and should never let his bowels be confined. 2. Radical Cure.—It has occasionally happened, after confinement to bed for several weeks with fever or some other emaciating ailment, that a hernia, irreducible before, has been replaced with ease, owing to an absorption of the fat of the omentum or mesenteiw, and relaxation of the abdominal apertures. The same result has also in some cases been efiected by art—by keeping the patient in the recumbent posture