210 TUMOURS OF BURS^. tion of ulcers that are extremely obstinate, and discharge vast quanti- ties of the concretion. They must be treated with simple dressings. It is rarely' expedient to meddle with these tumours with the knife ; but if any one be very inconveniently situated, and be perfectly indo- lent, it may be extirpated. The wound must be expected to heal very slowly. X. Ganglion and Tumours of Burs^.—The simplest affection of bursae and of the synovial sheaths of tendons, is excessive secretion of sy'iiovia, and consequent formation of a tumour, to which the name of ganglion is given. A recently formed ganglion is an indolent fluctuating tumoiu-, transparent enough to permit the light of a candle to be seen through it. It contains a clear synovia; but tumours of those bursas which may be formed by friction—such as the bursa which forms the swelling of bunion, do not contain synovia, but a viscid, semi- fluid substance, like the crystalline lens. The ordinary situation of ganglion is, of course, that of the various bursas;—on the patella, or olecranon ; or on the inner side of the head of the tibia ; or the angle of the scapula; but most frequently' about the wrist and fingers. When the general sheath of the flexor tendons at the wrist is affected in this way', it forms a remarkable tumour, which projects in the palm of the hand, and also above the wrist, but is bound down in the middle by the anterior annular ligament of the carpus. "WTien ganglion has lasted some time, or has been subjected to inflammation, the sy'novial membrane becomes thickened, the con- tained fluid turbid and mixed with flakes of lymph, and the tumour loses its softness and transparency. The ordinary cause of ganglion is a twist or strain of some kind, or irritation from pressure or friction.** Treatment.—(1.) The best plan of treating recent non-inflamed ♦ The foregoing cut displays a ganglion formed by tlie synovial sheath of the flexor tendon of a finger. From the King’s College Museum.