412 HARE-LIP. apex, and the alae were separated from the parts underneath ; next the knife was carried on each side between the skin and the bones, as far as the infraorbital foramen, taking care not to interfere with the nerves, when by passing the point of my finger below the nose, I caused the latter organ to be as prominent as could be wished. I now passed a couple of long silver needles, which had been prepared for the puqiose, with round heads and steel points, across from one cheek to the other, having previousl}' applied on each side a small piece of sole leather, perforated with holes at a proper distance ; then I cut off the steel points, and with tweezers so twisted the end of each needle, as to cause the cheeks to come close to each other, and thus to render the nose prominent. Thus by bringing the cheeks more into the mesial line, a new foundation, as it were, was given to the organ. Adhesion occurred in some places, granulations in others, in the lapse of ten days the needles were withdrawn, and in the course of a few weeks, when cicatrization was complete, the nose presented as favourable an appearance as could reasonably have been desired.”* 5. Depression of the ridge, owing to the loss of the ossa nasi, may be remedied by paring the surface, and covering it with a flap of skin from the forehead ; or by making a longitudinal incision, and engraft- ing a small portion of skin from the forehead into it; or, if the case is slight, by cutting out one or two transverse slips, and bringing the cut edges together by sutures, so that thus the surface may be stretched to its proper level. IV. Hare-Lip signifies a congenital fissure of the upper lip. Its usual place is just on one side of the mesial line ; and it ma}' exist on one side only, or there may be ,. iVb. a double fissure with a small V flap of skin between. Some- times there is also a fissure in the bony palate, sometimes in the soft palate also ; and some- times the upper incisor teeth and their alveoli project through the fissure; all which condi- tions give rise to considerable deformity and impediment in speaking and feeding. Treatment.—The edges of the fissure, which are red like the lip, are to be pared, and then made to unite by adhesion. Sir A. Cooper recommended that the operation should not be imdertaken till the child is about two years old, and has cut its teeth; because of the liability of young infants to be carried off by diarrhoea or convulsions ; Mr. Fcrgusson believes this risk to be exaggerated, and prefers oper- ating shortly after the child has ceased to suck; provided, however, it is in good heiilth, and not suffering from its teeth at the time. But if ♦ Op. cit. p. 454.