582 AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. fascia. The assistant is now to draw the skin further up, the retrac- tion being aided by a few touches with the knife; and then the knife, being put close to the edge of the retracted skin, is to be made to divide everything down to the bone by another clean circular sweep. The next thing is, to separate the muscles from the bone for another inch or two with the point of the knife, especially those connected with the linca aspara ; and then the periosteum having been divided by one more sweep—the retractor, a piece of linen with a longitudinal slit in it, is put over the face of the stump, and the muscles are to be drawn up with it. Now the bone must be sawn through. The heel of the saw should first be put on the bone, and it should be drawn up so as to make a groove, before working it do^vnwards ; it should be used very lightly, and the last few strokes should be excessively short and gentle, that the bone may not be splintered. If it is, the irregu- lar part must be removed by nippers. The femoral artery should now be tied, its orifice being seized and slightly drawn out by forceps; and afterwards any large branches that appear in the muscular inter- stices. Then all compression should be siiddcnh/ ceased, so that any arteries that are liable to bleed may do so, and be tied at once. Hffimorrhage from large veins is to be restrained by elevating the stump, and making compression for a short time with the finger. If, however, nothing else will do, they must be tied. Any obstinate oozing from small vessels, should be restrained by sponging with cold water, or perhaps by a touch with arg. nitras. Then a light bandage may be passed round the limb above the stump, and the edges of the wound should be approximated with a few strips of plaster, with or without sutures. The edges are to be brought together in a straight line, which may be made either perpendicular or horizontal, the latter however being probably the better plan. The ligature should be left hanging out in the interstices of the adhesive straps. The patient should then be removed to bed, and the stump be supported on a pillow covered with oil-cloth. No other application will be needed save a cloth dipped in cold water. Pain may be allayed by an opiate. The stump may remain as it is for some daj's, the discharge being merely wiped occasionally from its surface. But after from four to six days, sooner or later, according to the quantitj' of the discharge and the feelings of the patient, the dressings should be changed, the straps being taken off and replaced one by one, with care not to dis- turb the ligatures, and the hands of an assistant being employed to support the edges, and prevent their falling asunder. At the subse- quent dressings, the points to be attended to are, to renew the light bandage occasionally, which was passed round the stump soon after the operation, in order to support the muscles, and prevent their re- .traction to bring together the edges of the wound with adhesive straps—to remove the ligatures when loose—(that on the femoral artery should not be disturbed for a fortnight)—and to accelerate cica- "ti-ization by the nitrate of silver, or other stimulants, if the granula- tions appear languid. V