96 SCROFULA. spherules and shapeless flakes of fragments, and with a few perfect cells only at its periphery; it contains also numerous oil globules. Besides tubercular disease, scrofulous patients are liable to a variety of insidious, lingering, and obstinate inflammations and ulcerations. The lymph effused is often frail and curdy;—the pus viscid or serous and flaky; and scrofulous ulcers are weak, with pink surface, flabby, rapidlj’’ growing granulations, and loose edges. General Treatment.—The indications are to strengthen the system and prevent local disease, by rendering the blood pure and the circulation vigorous, and by keeping up the secretions. The means are both regimenial and medicinal. The former, which are infinitely the more important, are food, air, exercise, and bathing. (1.) The diet of the scrofulous should be nutritious, digestible, and abundant, consisting, as a general rule, of meat, twice a da\% good bread, green vegetables, such as peas and the various kinds of cab- bage, mealy potatoes, preparations of eggs and milk, and a sufficient quantity of beer or wine to promote digestion, without creating drow- siness or feverishness. (2.) The clothing should be warm, especially for the neck, chest, and feet,—so as to keep up the cutaneous circulation, and prevent congestion in the chest or abdomen. Flannel should be worn next the skin both in winter and summer;—in the former for direct warmth; in the latter to neutralise any accidental changes of temperature. (3.) Free exercise of the muscles and lungs in pure open air is indispensable. The accelerated venous circulation which it causes, ' and the compression of the abdominal viscera by the contraction of its muscles, are, as Mr. Carmichael has justly shown, the best means of promoting the action of the liver, and of preventing costiveness with its attendant evils. But exercise should be voluntary,—because then it will not be likely to be carried to the pitch of fatigue, than which nothing can be more injurious. Gymnastic exercises should be used with the utmost caution. i (4.) The best residence for the scrofulous is one that is warm, with- > out being damp in the winter, and cool and bracing in the summer. The high lands of the interior, Malvern, for instance, or Clifton, in the summer;—“ in the late autumn, when the air loses its freshness, and is tainted with the falling leaf and decaying vegetation, the sea- side ; ” *—in the winter, a town residence; in the spring, the mild climate of the Isle of Wight or coast of Devon, are alternations that are advisable for those that can afford them. But if the habit be extremely delicate, and disposed to phthisis, nothing can be better than a removal to Madeira, or perhaps rather to Egypt, or some tropi- cal country ; provided that it be adopted in time, and that the sufferer be" not sent away from home and friends (as is too often the case) merely to die. (5.) Daily washing ami friction of the skin are as beneficial to the * Mayo, Philosophy of Living.