CLOSURE OF THE JAWS. 425 If the extent of the disease renders it necessary to remove the entire side of the bone, and to separate it from its articulation with the temporal, the operator must begin by making a curved incision from beneath the ear, along the basis of the jaw to the chin. The flap so formed is to be dissected up, and the niasseter with it ; an incisor tooth is to be removed, and the bone to be sawn vertically through ; the end is next seized and depressed, and the temporal muscle dis- sected from the coronoid process; the pterygoid muscles and other internal attachments are then to be divided, and finally the ligaments of the joint. Whilst effecting the disarticulation of the condyle, the point of the knife should be kept close to the bone, so as to avoid all risk of wounding the external carotid artery. After bleeding has been restrained, the wound is to be closed by sutures, excepting at the middle, where an aperture should be left for the ligatures, and to permit the escape of discharge.* V'^II. Necrosis of portions of the jaws is occasionally the result of mechanical violence, carious teeth, or violent salivation ; but of late years a new source of this disease has been detected in phosphorus. This when imbibed by persons employed in lucifer match manufac- tories, especially if they have carious teeth, may cause inflamma- tion of the periosteum, with thickening and infiltration, followed by inflammation and abscess, and resulting in necrosis of a portion of bone with extensive sloughing of the soft parts around. The health is much broken down ; the discharge particularly fetid and copious. “ With loss of appetite, sallow countenance, and feeble circulation,” says Mr. Stanley, “ the first indication of the disease is usually toothache, followed by the dropping out of the teeth, more especially of the grinders, and then by the death of a portion of the jaw.” There is no reparation subsequently as in common necrosis. Treatment.—In the earliest stage, free incisions through the gums and thickened periosteum; when necrosis has taken place, de- odorizing lotions copiously applied ; meat beaten to a pulp, and other nourishing food; loose portions to be removed as soon as detached.+ VIII. Closure op the Jaws, with more or less inability to open the mouth, and to masticate solid food, may be a result of disease of the bone implicating the joint; or of rigid cicatrices within the mouth produced after sloughing, whether caused by drinking boiling water, or by the profuse administration of mercury. The division of any rigid bands of cicatrices, the division of the masseter muscle by subcutaneous section, a narrow knife being thrust from the mouth * Vide Liston’s Elements of Surgery, and Practical Surgery, 2nd edition ; Guthrie in Med. Gaz. vol. xvii.; Jtrodie, iljid. vol. xv.; Li.'^ton on Tumours of the Face, in .Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx.; Bell on the Teeth; Joh.son on the Teeth ; and Forgusson's Practical Surgery. I)i.sease of the lower jaw re<[uiring amputation Inus Ijeen cau.sed hy a projection anteriorly of the coronoid process, which hindered the evolution, of tlie wisdom tooth. Forbes’s Uev. vol. vlii. t Vide Stanley on the Bones, and a Lecture by Mr. Simon, Lancet, 12th Jan.