188 TREATMENT OP SYPHILIS. Sarsaparilla and guuiacum, as combined in the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, appear to maintain the secretions, especially those of the skin and kidneys, to increase nutrition, and allay morbid irrita- bility of the nervous and circulating systems. Hence they are admir- able remedies for debility during or after a mercurial course; and for the multifarious variety of symptoms that arise when the health is broken down as well by the disease as by its remedy. The gangrenous chancre {when occurring in healthy suljjecis, until firm pulse) requires to be treated by the early and free abstraction of blood ; and then the bowels having been opened, and the pulse being reduced, opium should be given pretty freely in combination with salines and antimonials. The poppy fomentation is the best applica- tion at first, and the balsam of Peru, or nitric acid lotion subsequently, to assist in throwing oif the sloughs. The ulcer which remains is usually healthy, and is very seldom followed by secondarj^ symptoms; therefore there is no need of mercury unless the sore begin to ulcerate, (there being nothing in the general health to account for it), or unless secondary symptoms appear. The phagedcmic and phagedeeno-gangrenous chancre must be treated according to the state of the system. If there are fever and thirst, with a full habit and harsh pulse, and vivid arterial inflammation, the case should be treated antiphlogistically ; if, however, the constitution is broken down and the pulse quick and feeble, bark and opium should be given freely;—and if the application of a strong solution of opium does not stop the phagedmna, the diseased surface must be destroyed by nitric acid, as directed at p. 82 ; and this will probably require to be done repeatedly, before the diseased disposition is got rid of. Mercury is inadmissible (as a general rule) when chancres are affected with inflammation, sloughing, or ph.agedmna. If phymosis is present, and there is a discharge from under the prepuce, which cannot be turned back, the case may either be one of mere balanitis, or there may be a chancre under the prepuce. If there be an ulcer, it may be detected by local hardness and tenderness. Whilst there is any inflammation, fomentations and water-dressing must be applied, and a mild astringent lotion should be injected fre- quentlj' between the prepuce and the glands. The prepuce should be slit up, if the tumefaction is so great that it threatens to slough; but not otherwise. If phymosis be caused by small ulcers at the edge of the prepuce (which sometimes occur during the healing of venereal sores,) they should be touched with arg. nit. or cuprisulph., ov ung. hydr. nitrat. As soon as iXxefrcenum has been perforated by an ulcer, it should be completely divided. Chancre in the urethramwsi be treated by astringent injections; and by mercury, if not contra-indicated by any of the circumstances above mentioned.