FRACTURE. 230 Foui-tUy, it is necessary to use some mechanical contrivances to keep tlie limb of its natural length and shape, and prevent any motion at the fractured part. It is usual to employ for this purpose of wood, carved to the shape of the limb. The surgeon should measure the sound limb which corresponds to the injured one, and select splints that are long enough to rest against the condyles or other projecting points at its extremities. These must be padded, and pads are easily made of loose tow or horse-hair wrapped up in pieces of old linen, or of pieces of thick blanket. The splints, when read}', should be firmly bound to the limb, with pieces of old bandage or linen straps and buckles. When the splints are properly put on, so as to keep the broken part immoveable, and prevent muscular spasms, without being too tight, the patient is sure to express himself as unspeakably comforted. The proposal to treat fracture by position only, without some apparatus for preventing movement of the broken part, is simply absurd. Instead of splints it is sufficient in some cases to use pasteboard softened in boiling water, so that it may be accu- rately adapted, and then allowed to dry and stiffen ; or layers of lint and bandage soaked in starch mucilage, which, when dry, form a remarkably light, firm, and unyielding support. This, however, should never be applied till all chance of swelling is over. We think it right also to mention the strata splints, made by filling a linen bag of the size of the splint required, with unbroken wheat straw, such as is used in thatching; the straw being cut to the length of the limb, and the open end of the bag then sewn up. This is both splint and pad in one, and may often be of great service in coimtry and military practice.* The remaining treatment of simple fracture must be conducted on general principles. Cordials, to restore the patient from the shock of the injury ; tlie catheter, if he cannot make w'ater, which is common after fractures of the leg ; opiates, to allay pain and muscular twitch- ing ; aperients, if they can be given without disturbing the fracture ; cold lotion, if agreeable; and leeches and bleeding very rarely indeed, to allay excessive inflammation, must be employed at the discretion of the practitioner. The apparatus and bandages must be loosened when swelling comes on, and be afterwards tightened sufficiently, to keep the parts steadily in their place; and care must be taken to prevent painful pressure on any particular spot, and to rectify any displacement as soon as it may occur. If, through mismanagement, a fracture has united crookedly, an attempt may be made to bend the callus, and restore the right shape. Such a proceeding may easily be effected before the fourth week, and it has even been successful at the sixth month.+ Hauitual Deformity must not be confounded w’ith fracture or dislocation. When a person, who has met with a fall or other acci- • See some remarks by Mr. Tuffnell, in Ranking's Abstract, voL iii. p. 240. t Syme, Ed. Med. and Surg. Jour., Oct. 1838.