12 TYPHOID FETED. time exchanged for saline medicines, and farinaceous or milk diet. Opiates must he given to procure sleep and allay pain. Clianpe of air is always advantageous. Profuse perspirations may be checked by diluted sulphuric or nitric acid, with tonics, as in F. 1, and by tepid sponging. As it will be recollected that the diarrheea often depends on an inflamed or ulcerated condition of the intestinal mucous mem- brane, reason will suggest that attempts to stop it by port wine, and large doses of catechu, or other stimulants and astringents, will often be not only unavailing, but irritating and mischievous; although good enough in cases of mere debility. If, therefore, the diarrheea is attended with tenderness, much pain, and tenesmus, the proper reme- dies are, rest in bed ; mustard poultices to the abdomen;—the very mildest diet of milk, arrowroot, &c., enemata of starch, containing from twenty to sixty minims of laudanum (F. 101);— Dover’s powder or F. 63, 64 at bed-time, and small doses of chalk or bismuth mixture, with a few minims of laudanum, during the day ; and one or two grains of blue pill, with three or four of rhubarb occasionally, if the liver is in- active. It may be added, that copious injections of warm water give great relief in all cases of diarrhoea; soothing the irritating membrane, washing away acrid secretions, and enabling the patient to pass easily at once what otherwise would occasion several painful efforts. SECTION V.—OP TYPHOID FEVER.* General Description.—This fever is an acute form of constitu- tional disturbance, occurring when the powers of life are much ex- hausted or depressed. It may be a sequel of the hectic; or of the state of prostration with excitement; or it may supervene very soon after an injury. SvsiPTOMS.—Pulse very frequent and weak, or jerking; skin hot and very dry; all the secretions deficient; tongue dry, brown, and tremulous; lips parched ; if there be a wound, it becomes dry, livid, and glassy, and ceases to suppurate. Terminations.—(1.) If the patient is to die, the pulse becomes more rapid, thready, and tremulous, and at last is imperceptible at the wrist; the eyes look dull, and glassy, and sunken; the temples and nostrils are pinched, from atony of their muscles;—the patient lies on his back, and sinks towards the foot of the bed;—there is frequent hiccough; the abdomen is tightly distended with flatus, and the sphincter is relaxed, so that stools are passed involuntarily; the patient dozes imperfectly, awaking with a start; he picks imaginary objects on the bedclothes, and mutters to himself;—there is starting or twitching of the tendons; at last the skin becomes cold and clammy, respiration slow and laborious, and coma supervenes, soon followed by * It must be unilerstood tliat the term typhoid /ever, is used here to signify a typhoid tj'po of symiitomatic fever, tliat is, of fever arising from local disease ; and not the idiopathic typhus, ovjievre typhoide.