WOUNDS OP THE ABDOMEN. 463 (c) Wounds of the liver, if extensive, are, from its great vascularity, nearly as fatal as those of the heart. Small wounds may be recovered from. There will at first be symptoms of great collapse, which, if the patient survive, will be succeeded by severe sickness, pain in the liver, yellowness of the skin and urine, great itching, and a glairy, bilious discharge from the wound. (rf) Wounds or rupture of the gall bladder are almost invariably fatal, although there are one or two instances of recover}^ on record. (e) Wounds of the spleen, if deep, are also fatal, from the great haemorrhage that follows, although the whole organ has been removed from animals (and, it is said, from man) without much consequent evil. (y) Wounds of the Mdnegs are attended with bloody urine. They are exceedingly dangerous, first from haemorrhage, next from violent inflammation with excessive vomiting ; and, lastly, from profuse sup- puration, kept up by the passage of urine through the wound. Venae- section, very mild laxatives, the warm bath, avoidance of too much drink, very light dressings, so as to admit of the flow of urine through the wound, and some unctuous application to prevent excoriation of the surrounding skin, are the necessary measures. io) Wounds of the bladder, if communicating with the perito- najum, are extremely dangerous, owing to extravasation of urine. In fact, unless there is an external wound through which it can escape, they are almost uniformly mortal. The catheter must be worn con- stantly. Mr. S3'me (in his “ Contributions ”) gives a case of rupture of the bladder below the line of reflection of the peritonteum, in which the patient recovered, free incisions having been made to give exit to the urine which was extravasated between the abdominal muscles and skin. 3. If ihe intestines protrude, and are neither wounded nor gangren- ous, they should first be freed from any foreign particles that stick to them, and then be returned as soon as possible. The patient should be placed on his back, with his shoulders raised, and his knees drawn up. If absolutel}' necessary, the wound must be a little dilated with a probe-pointed bistourj'. Then the surgeon should return the bowel portion by portion, passing it back with his right fore-finger and thumb, and keeping his left fore-finger on that which is already replaced, to prevent it from protruding again. He should be careful to replace intestine before omentum, and the part that protruded last should be returned first. 4. If the stomach and intestines, when protruded, are found to be wounded, the wound should be sewn carefully up with a fine needle and silk, by the continiiotis or glover's satarr; (p. Ill), in such a manner as to bring the edges into apposition, and prevent all extra- vasation between them. Then the part should be replaced, and the external wound be closed. Tlie aperture in the bowel will be united, as in other cases, by the adhesion of contiguous surfaces; and the silk employed in the suture will be detached by ulceration, and fall into its cavit}'. If, however, any part of the bowel that is protruded be