343 Pott’s curvature. insomucli that poor wretches who have applied to them to be cured of a mere distortion of the back, have, after many months of confine- ment, been sent away broken in healtli, and incapable almost of moving a limb. In slight cases the patient need lie down only for a short time after taking exercise, in order to relieve the spine from the weight of the body whilst its muscles are fatigued. In severe cases the patient should never be permitted to sit or stand upright ; she should, however, walk out daily in the open air ; but when not tualking, should lie clown. She should, moreover, be provided with some exercises for the arms, which may be used whilst lying down. But a continuance in the recumbent position, without rising at all, is only necessary under one circumstance—and that is, when the ciu'va- ture increases very fast, and is so abrupt at one point that it begins to compress and irritate the spinal cord, and produce spasms or palsy of the legs. ’2. dklcchanical support is of great service in many cases ; and the best way of applying it seems to be by a circular well padded iron girdle, to be buckled round the pelvis, to which is attached a crutch, by which the axilla of the depressed side can be supported and gra- dually raised, whilst a broad band passes over the convex side of the chest, and forces it back into its proper position.* But all cir- cular constriction of the body, as with the common female sta}'s, is an evil. The author has devised a chair, with supports for the shoulders,'so that they can be kept at the same level, and in the same vertical plane ; whilst it allows of free motion of the body, backwards and forwards.f 3. Ecctension of the spine longitudinally, may be effected by fixing the pelvis or feet to the bottom of an inclined plain or couch, and the armpits to the upper part of it; then there must be some contrivance by which the couch may be very gently lengthened. Or something may be done by pulling at the arm on the convex side of the chest, whilst one foot of the operator is pressed against that side of the chest, and the other against the pelvis. II. Angular Cvrvatvhb (Pott's curvature) is produced, as the adjoining cut shows, by caries of the bodies of the vertebrm, or ulceration of the intervertebral substance—a disease which gene- rally affects scrofulous children or adults. It usually begins with symptoms that indicate irritation of the spinal cord, such as weakness, coldness, and numbness of the legs, and incapability of taking exertion ; and these symptoms are followed by twitchings and spasms of the legs, and afterwards by palsy. The bowels are costive ; and there is difficulty sometimes of passing, sometimes of retaining the \irine, which is gencndly pale and alkalescent. Children rarely complain of much pain or tenderness in the back ; but if the patient is an adult, there is generally a heavy dull aching pain, aggravated by motion, together • For a good account of such applications, see Lonsdale on Curvatui-e of the Spine. f It is made by Spratt, of Brook-street, Hanovor-squaro. 'I‘rnri T'-"h rriii--' i