ACUTE TETANUS. 15 patient is unable to swallow it. This spasm never ceases entirely; but it has occasional remissions of violence, alternating with aggravated paroxysms, which are easily induced by the slightest irritation or dis- turbance : there are generally some snatches of relaxation during sleep. ^Meanwhile the intellect is undisturbed, and the pulse may be natu- ral, e.xcept during a severe paroxysm, which quickens it, and causes perspiration and thirst. Terminations.—(1.) If the case is about to end fatally, the pa- rox3'sms become more frequent and violent, and the breathing more and more embarrassed by spasm of the diaphragm and of the muscles of the glottis ; and at last the patient dies, either from exhaustion or from sufl'ocation ;—either the nervous system being worn out bj' the violence of the spasm, or the respiratory action being suspended long enough to cut off the necessary supply of arterial blood from the brain, and so induce insensibility. The most usual period of death is the third or fourth daj' ; sometimes it is postponed till the eighth or tenth, but rarelj' later. On the other hand, there is the case (*') recorded of a negro who injured his hand, and died of tetanus in a quarter of an hour; and cases of death within twenty-four hours are bj' no means uncommon. ('2.) When acute tetanus terminates favourabh', still the patient’s recover}' is not complete for weeks or months ;—partly be- cause of the strainings and lacerations which the muscles have suf- fered,—partly because of the remaining tendency to spasm, which very slowly yields, and is apt to be temporarily aggravated by very slight causes, especially cold and damp. But in some rare instances the disease has been removed almost instantaneously by the removal of its exciting canse. Prognosis.—The prognosis in acute tetanus is extremely unfavour- able, especially if traumatic; it is more favourable in the idiopathic; and the chronic generally gets well of itself. Death very seldom oc- curs after the twelfth day. Dr. Parry('^) attempted to found a prog- nosis on the state of the pulse, and thought that if on the fourth day it was under 100 or 110, the patient being an adult, the prognosis was favourable;—but if above 120, unfavomable. But although it is true that the pulse is in general accelerated towards the close of the malady, still some fatal cases have occurred in which it never rose above 80 or 90. As a general rule, it may be said that the prognosis h favourable if the complaint is partial ;—if it does not affect the muscles of the glottis;—if it has lasted some days without increasing materially in severity; — if it is sensibly mitigated by the remedies employed ;—if the pulse is not much accelerated ;—if the patient sleeps ; and if he has been subject to it before in an intermittent form. On the other hand, the prospect will be unfavourable, if the spasms continually increase in severity, and especially if they affect the muscles of the glottis. Diagno.si.s.—Tetanus resembles hydrophobia in the difficulty of swal- lowing and in the aggravation of the spasms by slight external irritants ; but it may be distinguished by the spasms being continuous, and bv