OZ.ENA. 417 Treatment.—A probe should be introduced to feel for the neck of the polypus, which should then be seized with forceps, and be gently twisted off. If, as sometimes happens, it projects backwards into the phar}’nx, it must be extracted through the mouth with curved for- ceps. After the operation, the nostril should be plugged to restrain bleeding. 2. The hydatid polypus is a rare species, consisting of a number of thin vesicles filled with a watery fluid, and attached by a peduncle. The vesicles burst upon the slightest pressure, and their reproduction may be prevented by touching the peduncle frequently with a hair- pencil dipped in butter of antimony. 3. The carcinomatous jwlyprcs is nothing more than a scirrhous tumour in the nose. It may be known by its occurring to elderly persons ; by the cancerous cachexia, the hardness of the tumour, and lancinating pain. 4. The fiaiyoid polypus is a soft red tumour, growing with great rapidity, frequently bleeding, and pursuing the ordinary course of fungus hmmatodes. This, like the last, admits only of palliative treat- ment, and should not be meddled with by the knife. IV. Chronic Inflammation,and tumefaction of the Schneiderian membrane, produces a constant feeling of weight and stuffing, as from a bad cold in the head, and more or less discharge, which is very apt to be fetid. It is very common in young persons of scrofulous con- stitutions, and if neglected may' lead to a very obstinate ozama. It is to be treated by applying one or two leeches to the inside of the nos- trils, once or twice a week ; by keeping the bowels open with mild purgatives, and occasional doses of hyd. c. creta ; and by administer- ing sarsaparilla with alkalis, F. 82, &c. Sometimes, in young children, the membrane swells into little red fleshy eminences, which may be touched with nitrate of silver, but must not be mistaken for polypi, nor be meddled with by the forceps. V. Oz/ENA signifies an obstinate fetid discharge from one or both nostrils. It is, of course, a mere symptom, and may depend either on scrofulous inflammation of the Schneiderian membrane ; or on idcera- tion ; or on disease of the bones, venereal or scrofidous. Sometimes it depends on the fonnation of large clots of mucus mixed with false membrane, which adhere and putrefy. Treatment.—Copious daily injections of warm water, and of astrin- gent lotions of nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, or of the chlorides of soda and lime, the citrine ointment applied by means of a camel’s hair pencil, and attention to the health, are the only remedies. VI. I.MPERFORATE NosTRiL.s.—The nostrils are sometimes im- perforate, owing to congenital malformation. The passage may (if the parents wish it) be restored by a cautious incision, and must be kept open with bougies. If, however, the obstruction be seated far back, it ought not to be meddled with. E E