573 VACCINATION.—GALVANISM. such as German tinder, or linen impregnated with nitre, are placed on the skin over the affected part, and then are set on fire, and allowed to burn away so as to form a superficial eschar. The surrounding skin must be protected by a piece of wet rag, with a hole in it for the raoxa. It is convenient sometimes to use the moxa as a rubefacient or vesi- cant, and not as a cauterant. A roll of German tinder ignited may be held -with dressing forceps at a little distance from the skin, the sur- geon at the same time blowing upon it with a blow-pipe, tUl the skin becomes red. X. Vaccinatio.n.—The matter should be taken on the seventh or eighth day, before an inflamed areola is spread around the vesicle, and it should be lymph, clear and transparent, not purulent. The operator J should make three punctures on one arm with a fine lancet, carrying the point of the instrument obliquely under the cuticle for about one- eighth of an inch, and, if possible, without drawing blood.. Then, if he has a patient to take the matter from, he ruptures a portion of the vesicle, dips the lancet in the lymph, and inserts it into each puncture. If he has the matter on points, he should breathe on them so as to liquefy it, and then insert one into each puncture, and allow it to remain three or four minutes. XI. Electricity and Galvanism.—In certain cases of defective circulation and nervous influence; when the thigh is weakened and benumbed after sciatica; in cases of atrophy of the extremities after fever; when the extensors are paralyzed from long disuse, as after disease of joints; in deficient menstruation; in loss of voice front relax- ation of the mucous membrane of the fauces ; in hysterical neuralgia, these powerful agents may be resorted to with every prospect of benefit. But the cases to which tliey are most applicable, are those of asphy.xia, from poisoning,, or hanging, when the atfusion of cold water, and other stimulants, fail to excite the action of respiration. The best method in these cases is, to place one wire at the nape of the neck, and the other at the pit of the stomach; or, if the sensibility is so feeble that this fails to take effect, a needle may be inserted deeply between the eighth and ninth ribs on either side, so as to reach the diaphragm, and the current be passed between them. The most convenient appa- ratus seems to be a single battery on Smee’s or Daniell’s principle, with a coil wound around a piece of soft iron, which is thereby con- verted into a temporary magnet, and'with a contrivance for interrupt- ing the circuit, and giving a stream of gentle shocks. XII. Galvano-tuncture.—In obstinate neuralgia it is a good plan to insert two needles deeply, at two points in tlie course of the nerve, and to pass a galvanic current through them.