FRACTURE OP THE ACROMION. 239 V The symptoms described by Sir Astley Cooper are the following; The shoulder appears sunk, and the arm lengthened ; the acromion is unusually prominent, and the deltoid dragged down and flattened; the head of the humerus can be felt in the axilla ; and on placing one hand or one ear on the acromion, and moving the shoulder, crepitus may be detected. Crepitus may also be felt on pressing the coracoid \ process, which is situated deep below the clavicle, between the mar- ( gins of the pectoral and deltoid muscles. The accidents with which i this fracture is most likely to be confounded are fracture of the neck of the humerus, and dislocation of the shoulder joint; the symptoms of / which should be carefully studied and compared. The existence of crepitus, and the fact that the surgeon can move the shoulder freely (although with gresit pain), are the chief points of diagnosis between this accident and dislocation. Treatment.—The shoulder must be supported by the same sling, bandage, and pad that are used for fracture of the clavicle; but a short sling from the axilla of the injured side to the opposite shoulder should be used in addition to the long sling from the elbow to the shoulder. Union may occur in seven weeks. Bleeding, leeches, pur- gatives, rest in bed, and warm fomentations, will be necessary for the contusion with which this fracture is accompanied. Fracture of the Acromion is known by a flattening of the shoulder, because the fractured portion is drawn down by the deltoid; and by an evident inequality felt in tracing the spine of the scapula. It may be distinguished from any dislocation, by noticing that the humerus may be freely moved in any direction, and that, on slightly raising the shoulder, the fragment is restored to its place. This is also a rare accident; and Mr. Fergusson believes that, in some of the supposed cases of ligamentous union, the detached portion was never united by ossification to the rest of the bone from birth. Treatment.—The same bandages, &c. are to be applied as for frac- ture of the clavicle; but great care must be taken to raise the elbow thoroughly, so that the head of the humerus may be lifted up against the acromion and keep it in its place. Moreover, no pad must be placed in the axilla; otherwise the broken part will be pushed out- wards too much. Union is almost always ligamentous, owing to the difficulty of keeping the parts in strict apposition. Fracture of the Coracoid Process is a rare accident, caused by sharp blows on the front of the shoulder. Symptoms.—The patient is unable to execute the motions performed by the biceps and coracobrachialis; that is, to bring the arm upwards and forwards; and motion and crepitus of the detached process may be felt by pressing with the finger between the pectoralis major and deltoid, whilst the patient coughs or moves his shoulder. Treatment.—The humerus must be brought forwards and inwards, happening to a young lady, and caused by her throwing her necklace over her shoulder. He ascei'tained that there was no dislocation, and no fracture either of the humerus or clavicla