•298 TREATMENT OF WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. with the forceps, it may be transfixed with the tenaculum; but in some cases, where it is deeply seated or cannot he found, or is con- tained in a dense consolidated tissue, it is necessary to pass a curved needle and ligature through a considerable thickness of the flesh, and tie it up altogether. This, however, should never he done if it can be avoided. In all cases where it is possible, the artery alone should be included in the ligature. After tying, one end of the ligature should be cut off, and the other be made to hang out of the wound. When an artery is completely divided, it is necessary to tie both orifices; and if it is wounded, but not divided, a ligature must be placed by an aneurism needle both immediately below and above the wounded part. It is necessary to observe, that in all cases, when it is possible, a wounded artery must be tied at the wounded part; and not in the trunk above. But here the question may be asked, supposing that there is a wound of an artery situated at a great depth under muscles; or that the wound is in an inflamed or sloughy state; or that the adjacent parts are so infiltrated with blood that it must be extremeh" difficult to find the wounded vessel; would it not answer the purpose to tie the main trunk of the limb at some place between the wound and the heart, where it can be done easily? just, in fact, as an aneurism is treated? The answer is, certainly not:—the artery should be secured by two ligatures, one immediately above, and one immediately below the wound; and should not be tied in the trunk above : and the reasons for this rule must be evident enough from the following considerations. 1. A trunk may be tied that has no connection with the branch wounded. Thus, in wounds of the upper part of the neck, the trunk of the common carotid has been tied many times wlien the bleeding vessel has been the vertebral. ’2. There is the possibility of high division, or some other unusual distribution of the arteries. 3. The limb below must be supplied with blood, by collateral circulation, else it will mortify. “ But whenever,’’ to use Mr. Guthrie’s words, “ this collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the life of the limb, blood must pass into the artery below the wound, and must, as a general rule, pass up and out through the lower end of the divided artery.” 4. Gangrene is very liable to follow if a ligature be placed high up in the thigh, in consequence of a wound. 5. The lower end of a wounded artery is not so quickly and effectually closed by a natural process of cure, as the upper, and is exceedingly liable to yield to the blood that regurgitates into it from below, and to bleed again and again until closed by ligature. Wherever, therefore, an artery may be wounded, it shovild be .secured by two ligatures, if practicable. When the wound in the skin is not sufficiently gaping to expose the bleeding part, a bougie or probe should be first passed down as a guide to it, and then it should be laid open by a sufficiently long incision upwards and downwards. But if it is clear that a vessel is wounded by a stab from the remote