DISEASES OP THE SPINE. 340 be known to have reached the diploe the escape of blood with the bone-dust; but it must be recollected that the diploe e.vists neither in children nor in the aged. The trephine should not be applied in the course of the sutures, nor over the lower part of the frontal or occipital bones, if it can be avoided ; but if nccessiry there is no great objection. * II. Paracentesis Capitis, or puncture of the head, is an opera- tion that sometimes is resorted to in hopeless cases of hydrocephalus in children, when all medicine fails of checking the effusion of water, or of causing it to be absorbed. It has been particularly recommended by Dr. Conquest, who has performed it in nineteen cases, out of which he succeeded in saving ten. The operation consists merely in intro- ducing a very fine trocar or grooved needle perpendicularly to the surface, through the anterior fontanel, as far as possible from the longitudinal sinus. When two or three ounces of fluid have escaped, the puncture should be carefully closed, and moderate support be ap- plied to the head by bandages. If the child becomes faint, it must be kept in the recumbent posture, and have a few drops of sal vola- tile. The operation may be repeated at intervals of two or three weeks.* CHAPTER XI. OF THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE SPINE. SECTION I.—OF THE DISEASES AND DEFORMITIES. I. L.ateral Curvature.— Curvature of the spine presents many varieties, some of which arise from mere debilitj', whilst others are caused by the destruction of portions of the spinal column by disease. We shall first describe that distortion which arises from debility of the bones, ligaments, and muscles, and which is exceedingly common in this country in young females from about the age of ten to sixteen. Symptoms.—The first thing that attracts attention is a projection of one scapula, or of one side of the bosom, or an elevation of one shoulder (most commonly the right), which are popularly, but erro- neously supposed to be growiny out. On examination the spine is found to be curved like an italic f. The right shoulder and the right side of the chest are unnaturally high and rounded, whilst the oppo- site is depressed and concave. In the same way the left hip projects, whilst the loins on the right side are curved inwards. Causes.—Tliis affection is readilj" caused by occupations or postures that tax one side of the body more than the other. We shall men- Vide Dr. Watson’s Lectures in the Med. Gaz. for March 1841.