510 EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. Straining with all his might to pass his water. At last, daring one violent effort, he plainly feels that something has given way; his painful sense of distension becomes immediately less, and he is very well pleased, and thinks himself better. And perhaps he is now able to make a little water by the natural passage, because the stricture generally relaxes, when, by any means whatever, it is relieved from the former pressure. But at tlie time when something seemed to yield, the urethra burst; the urine was forced by the whole power of the abdominal muscles into the cel- lular tissue of the scrotum, peri- nseum, and groins; the patient soon complains of a smarting or tingling about the anus and peri- nffiuin; the urine, which has be- come putrid and concentrated bj' long confinement in the bladder, speedily causes inflammation and sloughing; the skin over the infil- trated parts displays a reddish blush, which is soon succeeded by black spots of gangrene ; low t}-- phoid symptoms appear; the tongue is black, the pulse begins to falter, the skin is clammy; low muttering delirium and hiccup come on; and the patient soon departs this life, unless proper measures are taken for his relief. A black spot on the glans penis, indicating that the urine has penetrated the corpus spongiosum, is a very' fatal sign. Treatment.—A staff or catheter must be passed as far as possible, and it may sometimes be passed quite into the bladder, because, as was observed above, the stricture generally' relaxes after the bladder is unloaded, be it how it may. Then the urethra must be opened and the stricture be divided in the manner described in the last section, and a catheter be passed through the wound into the bladder, and be allowed to remain several days. At the same time free incisions must be made into any' parts that are swelled or emphysematous, showing that they have been pervaded by the urine. The urethra may also be ruptured by blows or kicks on the pori- lUEum, or by accidents that fracture the bones of the pelvis. The • This cut exhibits the urethra laid open ; a stricture at the commencement of the l)ulbous portion ; and false passages, one of which leads into an abscess that surrounds the membranous portion.