REDUCIBLE UEllNIA. 470 Trcaimerd.—Tlie indications for the treatment of reducible hernia are I. to replace the hernia, and 2. to keep it up by the use of a truss, an instrument consisting of a pad placed on the seat of protrusion, and of a steel spring which passes round the body, and causes the pad to press with the requisite degree of force. In writing for a truss it is usual to give the circumference of the bodj^ at the hips, midway be- tween the spine of the ilium and the trochanter. The patient must expect to find the truss rather irksome for the first week. It should be constantly worn by day : and if the patient will submit to wear it at night also, so much the better. If he will not do thi,s, he should, at all events, apply it in the morning, before he rises from the recum- bent posture. The skin of the part which it presses upon shoidd be regularly washed, and bathed with Eau de Cologne or spirit, else large boils are apt to fonn on it. There are some cases in which the common truss fails to keep up a rupture comfortably, and for these the surgeon should be prepared to recommend other instruments, which are for the most part, the pro- pert}' of various individuals, and each of which has some peculiarity adapting it to particular cases. Coles's truss, has a spiral spring acting on the pad. The j\[ocMain lever truss has a simple belt passing round the body, thus dispensing with the usual circular spring; and the pressure on the pad is effected by means of a strap passing under the thigh, and acting on a spring lever attached to the jiad. Salmon and Odj/'s self-adjusting truss has a pad revolving on a ball and socket. The Maidstone truss allows the pad to slide on the spring so that the circumference of the instrument maybe adapted to the varying size or movements of the body. E^g's truss is said to be made of old sword blades ; it is very strong, though not irksome, and requires no fastening. Adams's graduated pressure truss has two springs of different curves, by sliding which on one another the amount of pressure may be varied. In Toil's truss, the spring goes round the waist, and curves down- wards to compress a pad at the internal abdominal ring. iVervson's wire tmss, has a round wire, instead of a flat steel spring, which ren- ders it less likely to be displaced. Trusses may have French pads, which are of an oblong-triangular shape, instead of oval, like the English ; or pads filled with air; or may have springs going entirely round the body. But perhaps the most ingenious instrument, and that which is likely to be the most useful, is one recently devised by Dr. Arnott, in which, by means of a wire, external to the steel spring, and capable of being tightened or slackened by a nut and screw, the amount of pressure can be regulated with the greatest possible nicety.* For children an India-rubber band and pad often answer without a spring. A pad of hard polished wood is recommended by INIr. Dart- nell. He also uses flannel instead of leather as a covering for the spring, as it can be washed.-h • It is made by Spratt, of Brook Street, Hanover Square. t Ijuicot, 1848, vol. ii.