53 SUPPURATION. wound, and a contraction of its margin, so that' the wound becomes much smaller before any new cuticle is formed. Its edge tlieu begins to look smooth and bluish, a thin pellicle of new cuticle gradually, spreading from the edge in a converging circle, till the wound is closed. The material that closes the gap is called a cicatri.\'; it is a band of fibrous tissue covered with cuticle, at first reddish, and closely bound down to the parts beneath ; afterwards shrinking, being paler and firmer, and likewise looser, through atrophy of the hard tissue be- neath it. 3rd. Suppuration on i\fucous Membranes and Skin.—Some mucous membranes, as those of the eye and genito-urinary passages, when acutely inflamed, readily secrete a thick and very perfect pus. The membranes of the air passages, on the contrary, secrete a viscid, or ropy, or watery liquid, mixed with pus globules, and with others con- sisting apparently of ill-formed epithelium cells. The skin when de- nuded of cuticle, and irritated, readily suppurates. 4th. Pyohismia, or Suppmration of the Blood.—In the year I1138, when increased attention was beginning to be paid to the condition of the blood in disease, Mr. Gulliver announced that he had discovered - pus in the bloodjof patients labouring under small-pox, puerperal fever, and other affections of a t3'phoid cast. Hence there seemed reason for believing that a suppuration in the blood might be the essential condition of such maladies. Mr. Mayo shortly afterwards announced the discover}’’ that pus globules exist in the blood of almost every person—but the globules so announced were certainlj-, if Mr. Gul- liver’s were not, merely the white, or Ij-mph corpuscles of the blood. Whether pus is ever formed in the blood, out of anj’ of its constituent parts, without being secreted by the coats of the blood-vessels, is not known. But there is a remarkable phenomenon, frequently met with in phlebitis, puerperal fever, and erysipelas, and other diseases of the same cast, namely, the formation in rapid succession of abscesses in the lungs, liver, joints and other parts ; which abscesses form so quickly, that it has been supposed impossible that the pus could be elaborated in the parts in the time, but that it must be a deposit of pus previously circulating in the veins. Hence such abscesses have been called jniruleiit depots, or secondurp, or metastatic abscesses. On this subject we can only observe, 1st., that it is not probable that pus, as such, is ever absorbed into the blood from wounds or abscesses, unless there is some aperture in the coats of a vein ; the pus globules being too large to pass unbroken through the coats of the capillaries. 2ndly. That in cases of phlebitis, pus is often found in the veins ; and, witli other morbid secretions, no doubt mixes more or less with the blood. 3rdlj’. That pus present in the veins might lodge in the capillaries of the lungs or other parts, just as quicksilver does if injected into the blood, and there excite a rapid and diffused sup- puration. Bhysiolopicul relations of Suppuration. 1st. Suppuration is cssen-