602 UGATVKE OK ARTERIES. drawn aside, the aneurism needle should be passed from the inner side. IX. The Brachial Artery is superliciid in the whole of its course, and may be tied by making an incision two inches in length on the inner border of the coraco-bmchialis muscle in the upper piu-t, and of the biceps in the lower part of the limb. The incisions must be directed towiU’ds the centre of the limb, and the celluliu' tissue must be divided with caution, so as not to injure the internal cuta- neous nerve, which lies superficial to the artery in the upper part of its course. At the lower piu-t of the limb, the biisilic vein must be avoided. It must be recollected that the median nerve lies over the iirtery in the middle of its course, and that the vessel has two vena* comites, both of which must be carefully excluded from the ligsiture. Before tying the ligature, it should be ascertained whether or not there is a hiyh division of the artery, and whether the trunk that is exposed commands the circulation at the wounded or aneiu'ismal part. In the case of a small puncture of this iirtery at the bend of the elbow, from ciuelessness in bleeding, the surgeon m;iy either close the wound, and attempt the cm-e by compression—phicing ii graduated compress on the wound—bandaging the whole limb—and keeping the patient in bed and on low diet, so as to maintain a tranquil state of the circuliition ; or may' at once enlarge the wound upwai-ds and downwards to the e.xtcnt of three inches, divide the fascia to the siune extent, and tie the vessel above and below the wound—recol- lecting that the median nerve lies to its inner side. There are autho- rities for both practices. ISupposing an aneurism to follow such an accident, it is better to cut into the tumour, and tie the vessel above and below it, than to trust to one ligature at the lower part of the ann. X. The Rauial Artery in the upper third of the fore-ann may be tied by making an incision three inches in length, in a line from the bend of the elbow to the thumb, through the skin and superficial fasciii, avoiding the veins. The supinator longus and pronator teres being drawn asunder, mid the deep fiiscia being divided to the smiie extent, the artery will be exposed, with its accompanying veins, which are to be cai’efully separated before the ligature is passed. The aneurism needle should be introduced from without, in order to avoid the radial nerve, which lies at a distance on the radial side. This vessel can be readily tied in its middle third by making a simi- lar incision through the same piU'ts on the ulnar border of the supina- tor longus, and in the lower third, by making an incision on the radial side of the Hexorcarpi radialis. It may also be tied at the back of the cai'pus, just before it dips into the palm between the first and second metacarpal bones, by making an incision between the tendons of the extensor secundi and primi interuodii pollicis. But it is easier to tie it at the lower part of the fore-ann. XI. Ulnar Artery.—When this vessel is wounded in its upper