DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 355 Districhiasis, a double row of evelasbes, one of which grows inwards. The misplaced hairs must be perpetually plucked out; or if that does not suffice, the entire ciliary edge of the lid, or so much of it as con- tains the displaced hair, must be smoothly cut off. V. Entropio.n' has been attributed to a variety of causes, among which may be mentioned contraction of the ciliary margin of the lid, thickening of the conjunctiva at the line of reflection from the lid to the globe, contraction of the entire tarsal cartilage, and redundancy of the skin of the lids. Mr. Wilde has endeavoured to show that it is due to contraction of the conjunctiva lining the lid. Mr. Hajmes Walton attributes its immediate cause to the unnatural action of that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle which covers the edges of the tarsal cartilage, and which he states to be thicker, and more worked than any other portion of the muscle that is on the car- tilage. i\Ir. Wilde shows that the operations usually undertaken for the removal of entropion, such as the division of the tarsal cartilage perpendicularly at each angle, and suspending the lid after Cramp- ton's method, under the idea of the contraction either of its edge or body; or the removal of any portion of the conjunctiva; or the cutting off the so called redundant skin, do not answer; and recom- mends the plan of cutting off the cilia, leaving, however, the cartilage entire. Among the other proofs that Mr. Walton adduces of the power of the ciliary portion of the orbicularis muscle to act in the manner he describes, is the fact that a colleague of his can invert his lids by the influence of the will alone. Mr. Walton proposes, therefore, the removal of the ciliary portion of the muscle so as to destroy the inverting power, and the removal of a portion of the skin of the lid to overcome whatever contraction the tarsus may have acquired. Simple division of the lid by a central slit has been recommended, and is adopted by some surgeons ; and Mr. Walton says that this operation, by destroying the perverted action of the orbicularis, may in some instances answer, i. e., where the tarsus has not acquired any perma- nent curve, but in the great majority it will not, it being necessarj' in addition to remove a bit of the skin of the lid also. An incision is made along the edge of the tarsus and close to its cuticular margin, from one angle of the lid to the other ; and a second nearly parallel to it, about three lines distant, and joining it at its c.vtremities ; the knife being carried down to the cartilage, through both skin and muscle. Then one comer of this flap being raised by forceps, it is dissected clean off the cartilage, and the edges of the wound brought together by sutures.* VI. EcTRorioN, or eversion of the eyelid, may be caused, 1. by a fleshy thickening of the conjunctiva, owing to long-continued inflam- * Vide tViide on Entropion and Trichiasis, llul). Jour. Med. Sc., March, 1844. Haynes Walton, Med. Times, 24tli May and lOtii Aug, 1850.