33 GENERAL PHENOMENA OP INFLAMMATION. normal condition, attracts out of the neighbouring blood-vessels the necessary materials for its own life and growth, if its vitality be in- terfered with—by injury, by poison, by heat or cold, or any other source of disease—sets up another scries of actions, of which the attraction of considerable cpiantities of arterial blood is one of the most conspicuous, and which in their totality constitute wjlainmur lion. That, under favourable circumstances, if for instance there is a phy- sical breach of continuitj' to be repaired, the tissue attracts from the vessels some of the liquor sanguinis, which forms a blastema* or plas- tic material, out of which a new living tissue is developed, by which the injury is repaired. The adhesion of a wound and reparation of a simple fracture are familiar instances. That, under less favourable circumstances, whether arising from the amount of injury inflicted, or from the want of proper vital power in the liquor sanguinis, a series of further changes ensues. The plasma attracted from the blood-vessels begets within itself a kind of cell— incapable of further life or development—which is well known as the pus-corpuscle. That, under still more unfavourable circumstances, the tissues, after a violent struggle, perish and mortify. That, under certain unhealthy conditions, the liquor sanguinis, whether that supplied for the common purposes of nutrition, or that supplied in greater quantity through a slight degree of inflammation, begets various morbid cells, such as those of cancer, tubercle, &c. We are thus compelled to take from the capillaries the office which has been so long assigned to them as the/aefors of inflammation. But yet a great afflux of arterial blood is a most important instrument in the changes which inflammation produces, and the prevention of it is one of the most efficient means for controlling those changes. And there is little doubt but that the lax state of the blood-vessels in a chronically inflamed part is often one great obstacle to a perfect recovery. We are further compelled to deny the various theories which take a distended state of the capillaries as their basis, and account for the various effects of inflammation as so many mechanical consequences of that distension. Thus it has been common to say that serum exudes from the blood-vessels in the first stage, when but slightly distended ; that, under the influence of greater distension, the li(juor sanejumis is forced out; that if the inflammation still progress, blood will be extra- vasated, &c. But, granting that when the vessels are much distended, serum will exude from them, and that if they are further distended they may be ruptured and give exit to blood, yet this theoiy is quite insufficient to account for the effusion of liquor sanguinis or of lymph. In inflam- mation of serous membranes for instance, “ the blood-vessels are all on BAdoTj)/ro, germen; pKacrTivia, germino, pullulo.