59 CURONIC ABSCESS. nient of the sac, and more especially if the cellular tissue is partially covered with muscles (as in the axilla), under which the matter might burrow. 4. In suppuration near a joint; or in the parietes of the chest or abdomen ; or under the deep fascia of the neck ; lest the abscess burst into the serous cavities, or the trachea; or cause compression of the trachea, resophagus or jugular veins.* 5. In suppuration of very sensitive organs, as the eye or testis. 6. When it is desirable to avoid the scar which always will ensue when an abscess ulcerates spontaneously. And in the first three of these cases it is much better to make an opening before matter has formed, than to delay it for one moment afterwards. Abscesses may be punctured with a large lancet, used as in vene- section, or with the sickle-shaped bistoury, commonly called Home's ; or, if deep and extensive, by a straight-pointed double-edged bistoury. Holding it like a pen, the surgeon should gentlj' plunge it in at a right angle to the surface, till it has entered the cavitj-; which may be known by a diminution to the feeling of resistance, or by gently turning the instrument on its long axis, so that a drop of pus may well up by its side. Then the aperture may be enlarged sufficiently as the instru- ment is being withdrawn. The puncture should be made either at the most depending part of the abscess, or else where the matter points most decidedly and the skin is the thinnest; and a very fine strip of oiled lint (called a ic7it) may be gently introduced between the edges of the opening, and be allowed to remain for the first forty- eight hours, to prevent them from closing again. No laide attempts should be made to squeeze out matter; but it should be allowed gradually to exude into a poultice or fomentation. The poultices may be continued till all the pain has subsided, and the cavity has begun to granulate ; but not too long, lest the granula- tions become weak and flabby. And then the best plan is to apply a compress of linen, and a bandage. If the cavity does not contract speedily, it must be treated as a iveak ulcer or fistula. If the suppu- ration continues profuse, tonics, change of air, and a good diet are advisable, in order to prevent hectic, and enable the constitution to repair the local mischief. It occasionally happens that acute abscesses (especially those occur- ring in glandidar textures and venereal cases) are cured by the absorption of their pus. This is likely to happen when, after acute inflammation, the matter remains without tending to come to the surface, and witliout pain ; the means best adapted to promote it are cold lotions,—mercurial plaster,—purgatives and tonics,—and above all things a sea voyage, so as to cause considerable sickness. • In Dr. Cormack's Lond. and Ed. Med. Journ., Marcli 1843, is related a ca.se in whicli an abscess burst into the internal jugular vein; other cases are known in which abscesses have burst into arteries.