HECTIC FEVElt. Blood, chap. ii. sect. 2. ] 1 lily; also exliaustion from profuse suppuration;—or from any other great ami continued discharge; as prolonged lactation, leucorrhrea, and so forth. Hectic is so frequently caused by profuse suppuration, that an absorption of pus was formerly deemed to be its invariable and efficient cause. Hunter denied this theory-—-1st, because hectic maj- arise from organic disease, or from excessive discharge of any secre- tion when there is no suppuration; 2ndly, because pus maj' be ab- sorbed (as it often is from chronic abscesses and buboes, which are discussed without being opened) without the production of hectic.* It is certain, therefore, that absorption of pus is not the only cause of hectic. But it is equally certain that pus (or rather its constituent parts in a dissolved or disorganized state) is absorbed from extensive suppurating surfaces; and it is probable that its presence in the blood adds to the hectic and constitutional debility; and that (especially if it be vitiated or decomposed) it tends greatly to the production of colliquative di.arrhcua and ulceration of the intestines. For the injection of pus or putrid matter into the blood almost invariably causes diarrlima;—an effect also which is notoriously produced among students, who absorb the putrid vapours of the dissecting-room.+ Treatment.—The indications are (1) to remove the local cause; or (2), if that be impracticable, to enable tlie system to support it. The first indication may often be fulfilled by an amputation or other operation ; and it is well known that hectic patients often bear opera- tions extremely well, recovering from them rapidly, and making but one step, as it were, from death’s door to perfect health.J In cases not admitting or requiring an operation, local mischief must be reme- died, and profuse discharges restrained as far as possible. As for the second indication, the strength must be maintained by giving as m\ich food as the stomach can digest with comfort; but the quantity of animal food and of fermented liquids must not be large enough to add to the excitement, or increase the heat of skin, thirst, and perspirations. Arrowroot, and other farinaceous preparations; jellies, Iceland and carrageen moss, are useful as mild nutritives occa- sionally, when there is an excess of heat and feverishness; but these slops should not he given at such times, or in such quantities as to in- terfere with the digestion of more solid food, if there is an appetite for it. Tonics may be given to support tlie strength ; such as bark, qui- nine, or cascarilla, and especially the cod liver oil ; or sometimes tlie preparations of iron ; but if, at any time, in the varying progress of the disease, excitement appear to prevail, the pulse being more ac- celerated, and pain aggravated, tonics and animal food must be for a * On the Blood. Chap. ix. sect. 1. t Copland; Diet. Pract. Mod. ..-irt. Hectic, p. 905. Sec also the section on Chronic Ahsce.ss. I “ The removal of a diseased part which the constitution lias become accus- tomed to, and which is rather fretting the constitution, is addiiiK less violence than the removal of a sound part in hannony with the whole." Hunter on the