102 CHAPTER XIV. OF MALIGNANT GROWTHS. SECTION I. INTRODUCTORY. y Definition.—Malignant growths are diseases of constitutional origin, possessing the following characteristics. (1.) Thej^ consist of certain tissues, differing from any that are naturally found in the body. (2.) After a certain period, they have a tendency to disinte- gration and decay. (3.) They cause the gradual atrophy or trans- Tormation of the organs in which they are situated. (4.) Having an inherent power of self-multiplication, they progressively invade and destroy the tissues in their vicinit}'. (5.) They travel in the course of the lymphatics,and attacll the nearest glands. (6.) The}'generally affect several organs in the same individual ; and (7.) If mecha- nically removed from any part, they mostly reappear in or near the cicatrix. The amitomical elemc?its of malignant growths are three. 1st. Fi- laments composed of common fibrous or cellular tissue interlaced together, sometimes closely packed, hard, and gristly, sometimes with wide and loose interspaces. 2ndly. Of a liquid blastema, of an al- buminous nature (the so called cancerous juice) which fills the meshes of the cellular tissue ; and Srdly. of molecules, granules, nuclei, and nucleated cells (the cancer-cells), floating in the cancerous juice, out of which they are formed. The abundance of such cells in the meshes of a cellular tissue appears to be the essential element of malignant growths, although they are as yet hardly to be distinguished from simi- lar bodies, occurring in the normal development of the healthy tissues.* Pathology.—The development of malignant disease seems to de- pend on a perversion of nutrition, through which the lymph which exudes through the capillaries, either in the ordinary course of nutri- tion, or through some accidental inflammation, instead of forming itself into one of the proper tissues of the body, fomis an abnormal tissue witli the properties of a malignant growth. * The formation of nucleated cells was fully described in fomer editions of this work ; but it is now so commonly treated of in every treatise on pliysiolog}' tliat it may be omitted here. We have also omitted figures of cancer cells and cancerous tissue, because surgeons are not agreed as to the extent to which tlio microscope is availaljlc in the diagnosis of cancer, and liecause it would bo im- possible to do justice to the subject in so small a work as the present.—Vide Carswell’s Patholog}'; Miiller on Cancer and Morbid Growths, translated by C. West, M.D., Lond.1840; Dr. Walshe's article on Cancer in the Cyclop.-edia of Practical Surgery, and his larger work on Cancer, Lond. 1846 ; also on Adven- titiou.s Formations in Todd’s Cyclopmdia, parts 30 and 31, and Hughes Rennett, on Cancerous and Cancroid Growths.