358 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OP THE LACHRYMAL SAC. also liable to morbid growths, for which it has occasionally been extirpated. II. Xerophthalmia signifies adrj’ness of the eye from deficiency of the tears, or rather of the mucous secretion of the conjunctiva. It may be palliated by the occasional application of a tepid mucilaginous lotion by means of an eye-cup. III. Epiphora signifies a redundancy or over secretion of tears, so that they run over tbe cheeks. It should be distinguished from the stillicidium lachrymaruvi, or overflow of tears, in consequence of an obstruction in the channels that convey them to the nose. It may depend on general irritability of the eye, and is not unfrequent in scrofulous children. When arising from this cause it should be treated by aperients and alteratives, with tonics and antacids (F. 20, or quinine, with small doses of sodse carb.). An emetic may be given if the stomach is foul. The same local applications may be used as are prescribed for scrofulous ophthalmia. Search should be made for foreign bodies or inverted eyelashes. IV. Closure of the Puncta Lachrvmalia may be congenital, in which case it is quite incurable, or it may be a consequence of inflammation of the lachrymal sac and its appendages. Of course it produces a stillicidium laclirymaruvi. When a consequence of inflam- mation, it is only temporarj^, and passes off so soon as the inflamma- tion subsides, to which the treatment should be directed. Actual closure of both puncta, except from the cicatrization of a wound, scarcely ever takes place, and the loss of one only, does not matter much. The treatment to be adopted when both are obliterated, is to make an opening between the sac, and the inner corner of the eye, and create a fistulous aperture by the presence of a foreign body. To ascertain whether there is actual stoppage in the passage, Anel’s gold probes may be used. V. Obstruction of the Nasal Duct is most probablj’' a conse- quence of thickening of the mucous membrane that lines it, and is not uncommon in delicate young persons. The patient complains of weakness of one eye, which is peipetually watering ; and of dry- ness of the corresponding nostril. The lachrymal sac distended with tears forms a small tumour by the side of the nose, from which tears can be squeezed upwards through the puncta, or downwards into the nose, if the obstruction be not quite complete. A case is related of complete obliteration of the bony canal of the nasal duct by bony deposit, in which a permanent opening was established from the eye to the nose.* This affection mostly leads to VI. Chronic Infla.mmation of the Lachrymal Sac—tender- ness of the sac, perhaps redness of the superjacent skin; irritability and constant tendency to inflammation of the conjunctiva; and if the sac be squeezed, glairy mucus escapes with the tears. There is * H Walton, Med. Times, May 1SI6. A case is related in Forbes’s Rev. xii. 641, of congenital absence of the nasal duct, in which M. Berard succeeded in establishing a communication with the nose.