TUMOURS. 200 tain that the extirj)ation is complete;—and aftei’ bleeding has ceased it should be closed, and healed by the first intention. Sometimes fatty tumours may be removed by passing a seton through them, so that they may waste away in suppuration. This method is more tedious and painful than excision, but it may be adopted when it is an object to avoid a long cicatrix,—on the face, for example. III. Encysted Tumours, or Wens, occur most frequently under the skin of the head. They consist of a sac, smooth on its internal surface, and containing various matters, which, if examined under the microscope, are found to consist of epithelial cells, oil globules, and cr3’’stals of stearine. These are secreted by the lining membrane of the sac, which is in all probability an obstructed sebaceous follicl?of the skin. The contents are sometimes like curd or rice (such tumours being formerly called atheroma) ; sometimes like suet [steatoma) ; sometimes like honey (ineliceris) \ sometimes mere water; sometimes hair, or matter like horn. These tumours are painless, rounded, elastic, circumscribed, moveable, and thej' fluctuate indistinctly, ac- cording to the greater or less fluiditj^ of their contents. They enlarge slowly and steadilj-.* Treatment.—Extirpation is the onlj- remedy. Punctures, setons, injections, or any^ means for obliterating them bj' exciting inflamma- tion, are very hazardous; because the cj'sts (like all new textures) are liable, if irritated, to give rise to excessive and dangerous inflam- mation. Ointments of iodine, or other substances for creating ab- sorption, are perfectly useless, and may be mischievous. If, however, the tumour is small, its aperture (a little black spot) should be looked for, a probe may be passed into it, and the contents be squeezed out as often as necessary. Otherwise, a straight, double-edged, pointed bistoury should be thrust completelj' through the tumour, then the cut edge of the sac should be seized with forceps, and the whole of it be dissected out. IV. The Painful Subcutaneous Tumour is a small hard body, rarely larger than a pea or coffee-berry, seated immediatelj' under the skin, liable to fits of excruciating pain, and supposed to be formed in the substance of a nerve. It must be extirpated. The removal of such a tumour from the breast has cured an obstinate h}'steria.+ V. Malignant Growths.—The subcutaneous cellular tissue maj' be the primary seat of malignant growths, which run the ordinarj' course of such affections. And in some rare cases nodules of scirrhus or enccphaloid have been formed in extraordinarj’ numbers over the surface of the body, giving rise to great diversity of diagnosis.t ■ • Vide Erasmus Wilson’s paper in the Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxvii. t Wood in Edinburgh Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. iii. Lond. Mod. Gazette, vol. vi. p. 59. t Vide Ancell on a remarkable case of tumours, Mod. Chir. Trans, vol. xxv.; norririgton, on a case of diiseminatcd globose carcinoma, Med. Gaz., Feb. 4, 1842; Harrison, ib., Feb. 24, 1843 ; Walshe, op. cit. p. 675.