120 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. SECTION II.—OF LACERATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. General Description.—These wounds are attended with less haemorrhage than the incised,—both because their surface being irre- gular, renders it easy for the blood to adhere and coagulate,—and because arteries, when torn, do not bleed so much as when cut. But in all other respects they are infinitely more serious. (1.) They are liable to inflame violently and slough; (2.) they are often complicated with foreign bodies; and (3.) they are more liable than simple wounds to occasion severe constitutional disturbance and tetanus. Treatment.—In the first place, bleeding must be restrained ;— secondly, foreign bodies must be removed ;—thirdlj-^, the divided parts must be brought into apposition, in case the whole or any part of them may be inclined to unite by adhesion. Then the patient must observe rest, the diet be moderate, and the bowels be opened ; a cloth dipped in cold water, or a soft poultice, or the water-dressing, or a poppy fomentation, may be applied locally. The tincture of Benzoin on lint is often highly useful, sealing up the wound as it were from the contact of the air, and disposing it to heal kindly. The patient must not be reduced too much, or tetanus will be more liable to come on. Openings are to be made if necessary, in order to prevent the lodg- ment of putrid blood in the early stages, and of matter subsequently. When sloughs have separated, and suppuration is kindly established, the parts should be brought into apposition, a smuch as can be done without leaving sinuses, and the case must then be treated as an or- dinary sore. CHAPTER IV. OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Definition Under the term (/un-s/iot wounds are included all the injuries caused by the discharge or bursting of fire-arms. They consist, of “ severe contusions, with or without solution of continuity.” Symptoms.—When a musket or pistol-ball has penetrated an ordi- nary fleshy part, there is seen a hole, perhaps rather smaller than the ball itself, with its edge livid and inverted;—and if the ball have passed completely through, there will be another larger and more ragged orifice, with its edge everted. The wound will, besides, be attended with more or less pain, hcemorrhage, and constitutional dis- turbance. (a) The pain in these cases is said, by most authors, to be incon- siderable at the moment of infliction. Mr. Guthrie, however, both from observation and personal e.vperience, affirms that this is by no