HYPEREMIA. 2G life, 80 each separate part of his organism, when it has attained per- fection and answered its appointed purposes, begins to show symp- toms of decay;—thus giving us waming that death must occur sooner or later from mere inability of the organs any longer to carry on the processes of life, even if it be not hastened by violence or disease. Some of the changes which take place in consequence of age, in the eye, the teeth, the prostate gland, and the bones, are subjects of surgical study, and will be detailed in the fourth part of this work. It must be added that when we speak of senile degeneration, we speak of a thing “ not to be measured by number of years;” for some men at fifty are in all respects older and worse in constitution than others who .are thirty }’e.ars their seniors. It must be added, likewise, that some instances of wearing out m.aj'' occur at quite an early age, as for example the decaj' of the hair and teeth; and that peculiar change in the veins which is known as varix, when they became distended and knotty from inability to support the column of blood contained in them. VII. Other degenerations there are, affecting particular parts more or less exclusively, as the condition of the blood-vessels called nsevus. These will be described when we treat of the organs im- plicated. But with regard to ulceration, gangrene, tubercle, and cancer, .and most of the other changes of structure not included in the preceding paragraphs, they are so generally preceded or followed by a great afflux of blood, and by the other phenomena called inflamma- tory^ that it is more convenient to consider them as consequences, or as parts of the important process of inflammation.* CHAPTER II. OF DISORDERS IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF BLOOD, AND OF NERVOUS PAIN. I. Hyperasmia.—Although pretem.atural accumul.ation of blood plays a most important part in that series of phenomena known by the generic term inflammation^ yet it does not bj' itself constitute inflammation; and we have devoted this short chapter to the subject of disorders in the circulation per se, chiefl)'^ in order that the student may be aware that a something above and beyond this is necessary to constitute inflammation, as will be shown in the next chapter. Local hyperremia may be of two kinds—1. active, or arterial;— * For fuller inform.ation on the subjects of this chapter, consult Mr. Paget’s Lectures on Nutrition, Hypertrophy, Atrophy, &c. Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. iv. and V.; and Andral’s Pathological Anatomy, trans. by West and Townsend.