ACUTE TETANUS. 19 •and chloroform so much more likely to do good, that we cannot advise tobacco, unless the latter has failed. Hot brandy and water should be given if the heart’s action is too much enfeebled by it. It is ad- ministered in the form of enema, of four ounces of the enema tahaci (F. 103). It soon induces deadly sickness, cold perspiration, fainting, and relaxation of the muscles, followed perhaps by sleep. Cold is of eminent service to animals affected with tetanus ; and a soldier was once most unexpectedly cured by exposure all night in severe weather. It may therefore do good in some instances to apply cold extensively to the spine by means of bladders filled with ice, or various frigorific mixtures ; taking care to support the circulation by internal stimulants. But the cold bath, and cold affusion, although they are of great service in chronic tetanus, are most hazardous in the acute, and have more than once proved instantly fatal. 3. Narcotics.—Opium is of most undoubted efficacy in some in- stances, probablj' those attended with a painful wound, and weakness. When it produces good effects, they are soon manifest. The best way of using it appears to be by frictions with liniments containing it ; or by removing a small portion of cuticle over the spine with a blister, and sprinkling a grain of finely powdered acetate, or hydro- chlorate of morphia, on the denuded cutis. If given internally it should be in large doses, and in the liquid form ; and it should be re- collected that very large doses may be given with very little effect. The resm of the Cannabis Indica, or Indian hemp, a mild stimulant and narcotic, has been employed, witli very good effects, b}' Dr. O’Shaughnessy and others at Calcutta, and by several practitioners in this countiy. The dose is gr. iij. everj' half hour till the symptoms .are mitigated (F. 29). But the most promising remedy of this class is chloroform inhaled sufficiently to relieve the patient’s sufferings, and to keep him moderately under its influence.* 4. tStimidants and Tonics.—The preparations of iron and bark have been useful in cases attended with marked debility. Several cases are on record in which recovery followed the use of ardent spirits in verj' barge quantities.It is scarcely worth while to mention the various antispasmodics, such as c.amphor, musk, mther, castor, the warm-bath, assatmtida, nor yet stramonium, belladonna, or digitalis. Colchicum has been of service in some few eases ; phos- phorus given in the qiiantiy of one grain daily, in divided doses, gra- dually increased to four, is also said to have produced a cure in twelve days; and Cruveilhicr thought that in one case, great relief was aflorded by making the patient breathe rapidly and voluntarily with the diaphragm. ('') 5. Nutriment.—It is in all cases necessary to keep up the strength • Since the above was written two ably reported cases of acute tetanus liave been published in the Provincial Medical Journal, May 15, 1850, by Dr. Cotton of Lynn, in one of which ether, in the other chlorofonn was used, with the same results which usually follow in hydrophobia, viz. the sull'erings mitigated for a time, but the disease, in its essence, uninllucnced and mortal.