335 TVOTJNDS OF THE BRAIN. be bled, purged, and kept under the strictest antiphlogistic regimen; and then, perhaps, recovery may be completed without the slightest appearance of compression, and inflammation be averted. Even if there be slight symptoms of compression, the same plan is to be adopted in the hope that they may be removed by free depletion. The practice, however, of Pott and his predecessors was to trephine in every case of depression; alleging that the operation should be per- formed in order to prevent ill symptoms, and that if it were delayed till they came on, it would be too late. And this latter doctrine is supported in some degree by Mr. Guthrie, who says, that if fracture with marked depression exists, in an adult, it is the best plan to divide the scalp, and ascertain tlie nature and extent of the depres- sion. If it is probable that portions of bone arc sticking into and irritating the dura-mater, it is better to trephine at once, even although no symptoms of compression should be present.* In children, whose bones are soft and thin, great indentations .and depressions may be produced without fractm-e. They are to be treated antiphlogistically; and if the bowels are kept well open, they may not cause any bad symptom whatever, and the bone may rise in time to its proper level. (6.) In the case of cojnpound fracture of the skull, with depression of bone, whether there are symptoms of compression of the br.ain or not, the bone must be elevated. If possible, it should be done with the elev,ator; but if one piece of bone is wedged in under .another, a sinull aperture should be made with the trej)liine, in order to make room for employing the elevator. If .any pieces of bone are perfectly loose and detached, they must be removed ; but not if they have a pretty good .adhesion to the pericranium and dura-mater. Sabre Cuts.—Cuts inflicted by a sword or s.abre, if they do not quite penetrate the skull, are to be tre.ated as simple fissures; but if produced by a blow which descended perpendicularly, the inner table of the skull is apt to be extensively splintered; and if on examination with a blunt probe this is found to be the case, recourse should be had to the trepliine. SECTION V.—WOUNDS OP THE BRAIN. U'ou?ids of the dura-mater add very considerably to the danger of compound fractures of the skull, both from the risk that inflammation may spread over the surface of the ar.achnoid, and from the greater chance of hernia cerebri. Hence this membrane should never be punctured in search of fluid, without due consideration. Wounds of the sinuses are of no groat consequence, provided the blood does not .accumulate within the skull; hmmorrhage from them is easily restrained by pressure. ' This question is adiniraljly discussed iii Sharp’s Practical Treatise on Injuries of the Head. Loud. 1S41.