FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. 2-14 and a splint must be placed in front, so as to keep the arm straight. The patient may be allowed to move the part gently in three weeks. Union will be ligamentous. Compound fracture of the olecranon is far from an uncommon con- sequence of violent blows or falls on the elbow; and it is often followed by protracted disease of the joint. The part must be bathed and fo- mented ; any loose fragments of bone be extracted ; the wound be closed with bloody lint, or collodion, if the skin can be neatly brought together ;—the elbow must bo kept straight and motionless with a splint;—leeches and fomentations be used to reduce inflammation; and when the wound is healed, and the joint free from active disease, gentle exercise must be employed to restore it to its proper uses. If the bones are so excessively comminuted as to render it probable that the process of reparation will be tedious and exhausting, excision of the joint should be performed ; unless indeed the injury is so verj' severe fvs to render amputation indispensable. Fracture of the Coronoid Process is very rare. It is caused by the action of the brachialis muscle. Mr. Liston gives a case of it which occurred to a boy of eight j'cars old, and was caused by his hanging with one hand from the top of a high wall. Symptoms.—Difficulty of bending the elbow, and dislocation of the ulna,—the olecranon projecting backwards. Treatment.—The arnr must be bandaged, and kept at rest in the bent position. Union will be ligamentous. Fractures of the shafts of the Radius and [Una., together or singly, are known by the ordinary signs of fracture, especially by the cre- pitus felt on fixing the upper end, and rotating or moving the other. The objects in the treatment are to prevent the fractured ends of either bone from being pressed inwards towards the interos.seous space, and to prevent the upper fragment of the nidi us from being more supinated or everted than the lower. Treatment.—The fracture is easily reduced Iiy extension from the wrist and elbow. Then the elbow being bent, and the forearm placed in a position intermediate between pronation and supination (that is to say, with the thumb uppermost), one splint should be applied to the flexor side, from the inner condyle of the humerus to the fingers’ ends ; and another from the outer condyle of the humerus to the back of the wrist. Both splints should bo wide enough, and should be well padded along their middle, so that thej' may prevent the bones from being pressed together. The hand should be kept in a line with the forearm. The cure is generally complete in a month or five weeks. Fracture of the loiver eatremity of the Radius, from half an inch to an inch above the wrist, is now commonly called Colies's fructui-e, from the name of the eminent surgeon who first accurately described it. It deserves careful study from its liability to be mis- taken for dislocation. The carpal extremity of the bone is usually broken off transversely, and the fragment is drawn backwards and outwards by the extensors of the thumb and supinator longus. Of