GONORRHCEA. 174 and may even prove dangerous to life by leading to extensive abscesses in the neighbourhood of the bladder.* But, after repeated attacks, the urethra becomes as it were inured to the disease, and each subsequent infection is generally (although not always) attended with fewer of the symptoms of acute inflamma- tion. In some instances, the constitutional aflPection is extremely anomalous, and characterized by severe and continuous rigors. Gonori-hwa sicca.—There is one form of gonorrhoea which is occa- sionally met with in the male, and Mr. Acton has often met with it in the female, in which the mucous membrane is red, swollen, and tender, but free from discharge. In the male, there are severe scald- ing and pain in making water, with painful erections, and the lips of the urethra are red and swelled. This form of disease has the po- pular name of the dri/ clap. Morbid Apfe.arances.—On dissecting a urethra affected with re- cent gonorrhoea, the mucous membrane is found red and swollen, and the follicles or lacuna enlarged and filled with pus, especially the large lacuna in the fossa navicularis, near the orifice. Consequences.— 1. Repeated gonorrhoea may lead to stricture of the urethra ; 2, to irritability of the bladder; 3, to a hard, dense, semi-cai’tilaginous state of the corpus spongiosum uretlirae. Causes.—We have shown gonorrhoea to be an inflammation and purulent discharge from the urethra, and have said that it is generallj^ produced by contagion from a similar disease. But inflammation and purulent discharge from the urethra may be produced bj' many other causes, some of which have no connexion with sexual matters. Thus— (a) In the first place, discharges resembling gonorrhoea may be caused by loccd irritation. Immoderate and protracted sexual in- dulgence ; the introduction of bougies; blows on the periniEurn;— violent bending of the penis during erection; and long travel in a jolting vehicle over bad roads, are well authenticated causes of such cases.+ (i) By various disorders of the constitution. It has been a symptom oi rheumatism; and not unfrequently it precedes a paroxysm of gout. It may be caused by sgmpathg luilh irritation of other parts. Thus it may be occasioned piles;—and it has been known to ac- company the cutting of a tooth several times in the same patient, (c) A discharge is liable to occur in patients affected with stricture;— and to recur in those wlio have been long habituated to it, upon any neglect of their health, exposure to severe cold, or inordinate fatigue, or excess in food, icine, or venery. (d) Lastly, discharges are sometimes (although rarely) occasioned by the 7ise of particular medicuies. Guaiacum and cayenne pepper have been named as some. Again, a man may contract a pretty severe discharge from a woman who is perfectly chaste, and has not been previously infected by a third party. Thus—(a) The menstrual fluid is capable of causing For cases vide Judd, op. cit. p. 70. t Vide Judd, op. cit. p. 32.