CATARACT. 382 with tlic knife perpendicular to the eye. Some operators use bella- donna to dilate the pupil; others are averse to it. Complications.— 1. Sometimes, in consequence of the premature escape of the aqueous humour, the iris falls forwai-ds under the edge of the knife. If the point of the knife is completely entangled in the iris, it is necessary to withdraw the instrument, heal the wound, and repeat the operation afterwards. If, however, a little bit of it should get under the edge of the knife, when the section is nearly complete, the operator may push on boldly, since if a little piece of it be cut, it will be of no great consequence. 2. If the opening of the cornea is not large enough, it must be enlarged with a small knife. 3. If a portion of the lens remain behind, it should be left to be absorbed—unless it has passed into the anterior chamber, and can be removed very easily indeed. 4. If the vitreous humour seem dis- posed to escape, the cataract should be hooked out with the curette. But the escape of a little is of no consequence. After Treatment.—The patient should be put to bed, with the shoulders raised, the room darkened, and with a very soft drj' linen rag over both eyes. No food should be allowed which requires mas- tication, the bowels should be kept open, and everything be avoided which is likely to provoke coughing, sneezing, or vomiting. If he goes on comfortably, the eyelid may be raised on the fifth day, and then if there be no prolapse of the iris, and the cornea be united, he maj' get up occasionall.y, wearing a shade, sitting in a darkened room, and walking about a little. After a fortnight the eye may be opened in a weak light, and be gradually brought into use. But inasmuch as it remains weak and irritable, the patient must take the greatest care, to avoid exposure to cold, excess in diet, over exertion of the eye, or exposure of it to too strong a light. Gray spectacles are the best pro- tectors against wind, or too glaring a light. The patient will require convex spectacles for exact vision, but thej’ must be used very sparingly at first. He should have two pairs, one with a short focus for near objects, and another of long focus for distant objects. The inflammation which may come on after the operation may be of two kinds. If the eyelids are swollen, and florid, and tender, .and there is a thick yellow' secretion about the lids, and the conjunctiva is red, sw'ollen, and chemosed, the inflammation is acute, and requires to be treated bj' bleeding and purging. But if, as Mr. Tyrrell shows, the palpebrce are not much discoloured, and are rather oedematous than tinged with blood; and if the secretion is light-coloured, and the conjunctiva oedematous, the patient will be benefited by good broth, carbonate of ammonia, and opium. II. Depression, or Couching.—The object of this operation is to remove the cataract from the axis of vision. It is a clumsy and violent operation, and adapted only to those cases of hai'd cataract, of which the extraction would be unadvisablc, for reasons mentioned in a preceding page. The disadvantages of it are, that the pressure of the lens on the ciliary processes and retina is liable to be followed by