574 CHAPTER III. ON BANDAGING. I. The Art of Bandaging is so easily learned from practice, and so impossible to teach merely from books, that in former editions of this work we dismissed it with as few words as possible. In the present edition, however, in deference to the judgment of some of onr friends, we shall say rather more upon it; yet we shall endeavour to avoid that strange complexity which some writers delight in, who have invented bandages with such names as “ Compound-Bis- A.xillo-Scapulary,” “ Compound-Metatarso-Rotular,” &c., and who seem to assume a knowledge of millinery as well as of surgery on the part of their readers. II. Bandages usually consist of a strip of linen, calico, or flannel, varying in breadth from one to three, five, or more inches,and in length from one to si.x, eight, or twelve yards. Sometimes they are made of India-rubber web, or of a substance like stockings; but, for most pur- poses, stout unbleached calico, or thin fine calico, sold by Ewen in Jer- myn-street, will answer. They are generally rolled up longitudinally for use, and hence have received the name of rollers. Besides the simple roller, there are many compound bandages, as the T band- age, and the many-tailed bandage (described at p. 257); but the latter are not now much in use, and, like other special bandages, are generally prepared by professed bandage-makers. Lastly', band- ages may often be made out of handkerchiefs, or square pieces of linen. III. Uses.—Innumerable are the properties assigned to various forms of bandages by the older writers ; hence such names as the retentixe, e.rpiilsivc, vnUivg, dividing, recurrent, &c. ^^'e believe, however, that we shall not be far from the truth if we state the chief uses of bandaging to be these two, viz., 1st. To keep on dressings, to protect a diseased part from injury, and put some little restraint upon its motions ; 2ndly, To afford a sup])ort to relaxed muscles, ligaments, and vessels. Deprive any part of its nonnal support, and varicose veins and dropsical effusions are sure to occur ; and conversely many cedematous and other chronic swellings of the limbs and joints may often be cured by the proper application of bandages alone. IV. The Roi-Ler.— In applying this to any' limb, the surgeon should hold it as represented at p. 75, or in the next figure but one, and should pass it from one hand to the other as he encircles the limb with it. He should begin at the extremity of the limb, applying it most tightly there, and a very little more loosely as it ascends. He should unfold very little of it at a time, and should make each fold overlap about a third of the previous one. When the limb increases