168 THE VENEREAL DISEASE. communicable by inoculation with the matter from the ulcers. The secondary symptoms, which depend on a general contamination of the constitution, are not communicable by inoculation; but they are capable of transmission from a mother to the foetus in utero, and it is probable that they may also be communicated from the husband to his wife, from a nurse to a suckling infant, and from an infant to its nurse. There is, moreover, a third class of symptoms, which may be called tertiary ; consisting of various eruptions, rheumatic pains, falling off of the liair, deafness, and all kinds of anomalous cachectic complaints, which are the sequela; of S3'philis when it operates on an originally bad constitution, or is aggravated by ill-treatment. This vitiated state of constitution is doubtless a frequent source of stunted, sickly, and scrofulous children. We must next lay before the reader as brief an account as possible of the various disputed opinions with regard to the history and origin of this disease. The following are the principal questions in dispute;—namely. First, Was the venereal disease known to the ancients? Secondly, Was it imported from America? Thirdly, Are there more syphilitic poisons than one? Are the poisons which produce^onor- rlieea and syphilis identical ? Fifthly, What is the origin of syphilis ? And, lastly, what are the specific virtues of mercurj' ?—These ques- tions we will discuss seriatim. I. Was the Venereal Disease known to the Ancients?— (a) Arynments in favour of its antiquity.—Thej' who believe that it was known to the ancients argue thus: They affirm that writers on medicine from the earliest ages make mention of sundry ulcerous diseases of the genitals and the fauces, some of which were most pro- bably venereal. That, in particular, some of the ulcers of the genitals mentioned by Celsus correspond exactly with certain ordinarv' vene- re.al sores of the present time.* That Rhazes, an Arabian writer, mentions an ulcer of the penis produced by the “ accensionem mulieris supra virum." That sundr)' foreign authors who flourished between 1270 and 1470, mention ulcers and pustules of the penis as contracted by lying with foul women ; or with women who have ulcers,—or who have lately had connection with one whose penis was ulcerated. But the strongest arguments of all are contained in two papers presented by Mr. Beckett to the Royal Society in 1717 and 1718, in which he contends for the antiquitj’^ of the disease in England, lie proves that gonorrhcea was well known in 1162 under the terms brenning or burn- ing ;—and that certain enactments were extant, which provided that any steivholder keeping a woman with i\\o perilous infirmity of burning should forfeit the sum of one hundred shillings. Further, he says, that John Arden, surgeon to Richard 11. (1380), defines the brenning to be an inward heat and excoriation of the urethra ; and that, besides, he mentions certain ‘^contumacious tdeers, which we now term chancres." • De Modioina, lib. vi. cap. 18.