367 DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. scissors. But it is probably a sounder plan of treatment to use sooth- ing applications, and mild astringents that do not irritate, especially if this state of conjunctiva follows an attack of inflammation that has been freely treated by caustic. When it results from long-continued ophthalmia, in a debilitated system, in which form it is rare, tonics and mild astringents are the remedies. IX. Ptervgium is a peculiar alteration of the conjunctiva, a trian- gular portion of which, with the apex towards the cornea, becomes thickened and elevated, sometimes transparent, sometimes red and fleshy. It may spread over the cornea and obstruct vision ; but it does not give much inconvenience besides, and is not essentially an inflammatory affection, although it sometimes follows protracted ophthalmia. Treatment.—If it does not disappear under the use of vin. opii or caustic lotion, it must be completely scarified across ; and if that fail, it must be seized with a hook and be extirpated with curved scissors. section V.—OF THE DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. ^ I. Acute Inflammation of the Cornea, or acute corneitis, is generallj’ a consequence of neglected injury. The part becomes red and opake, the sclerotic around highly vascular ; and ulceration of the cornea, or suppuration between its layers, or abscess of the ante- rior chamber, may ensue. Local and general bleeding, mercury and antimonj% or turpentine in the dose of one dr.achm three times a day, in an emulsion with carbonate of soda and mucilage, F. 74, and, fomentations, are the remedies. Stimulating applications are preju- dicial. II. Scrofulous Corneitis most frequently occurs between the ages of eight and eighteen. Symptoms.—The cornea op.ake, rough, and red, and unusually pro- rninent ; the surrounding sclerotic also red ; pain and intolerance of light are generally trivial ; there is some tendency to inflammation of the iris and retina ; the pulse is frequent, and the skin dry. Treatment.—For the acute, purgatives and fomentations. For the chronic, quinine perseveringly administered; blisters repeatedly applied to the nape of tne neck, and behind the ears ; and the general tonic treatment directed for scrofula. The vin. opii, and ung. hydr. nit. o.x. to the eyelids are almost the only local applications admissible. III. Opacity of the cornea may be divided into two kinds. 1st. The opacity which results from the Adhesive Inflammation, and effusion of fibrine between its layers, or between it and the con- junctiva, which is a very common consequence of inflammation of the cornea, and of scrofulous ulcers during their healing stage ; and , 2dly, the op.acity, or leucoma, which is produced by a loss of substance and its resulting cicatri.x,—that which follows a pustule of the small- pox for example. The fonner kind is in most cases curable; the latter generally not so.