213 DISEASES OF THE BONES. change of air, and care must be taken to prevent tlie formation of sinuses. II. Chhonic Glandular Tumours may arise from simple chronic inflammation—from sarcomatous transformation—from deposit of scro- fulous tubercle, and from scirrhus or otlier malignant disease. (1.) Chronic Injlammaiion causes a tender swelling, with aching pain, and slight redness of the skin. It may be caused by any slight irritation in the com'se of the lymphatics, but is more frequently con- stitutional. Treatment.—Repeated leechings, cold lotions, and aperients, fol- lowed by alteratives and tonics, and empl. hydrargyri, or ung. io- dinii. (2.) Glandular sarcoma consists in the transformation of one or more glands (especially in the neck) into sarcomatous or fibrous tu- mours, whose characters and treatment have been before described (p. 198). These are to be distinguished from scrofulous tumours by the circumstance, that one or two glands only are enlarged, and that they gi-ow slowly but steadily;—whereas in scrofula a whole cluster is en- larged, and thej' are subject to fits of swelling and subsidence, from constitutional changes or atmospheric vicissitudes. From scirrhus and fungus medullaris they maj' be distinguished by attention to the dia- gnostic signs of those maladies. CHAPTER V. OF THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES. SECTION I. OF THE DISEASES DEFENDING ON HYPERTROFHV. I. Si.MFLE HYPERTROPHY. — It Sometimes happens that one or more bones increase in length and breadth, without any deviation from their healthy structure. Thus the tibia, or fibula, or femur, has been known to become enlarged and lengthened after some disease which has brought an increased flow of blood to the limb ; and the superior ma.\illary bone has been converted into a solid mass with complete obliteration of the antrum. The deviation from common nutrition on which such enlargements depend, is hardly to be controlled by medi- cine, although, if any drug is likely to be of service, it is the iodide of potassium. II. Exostosis signifies a tumour formed by the irregular hypertro- phy of bone. Such tumours are hard, painless, and globular, and mostly situated on the upper part of the humerus, or tibia, or on the lower part of the femur, near the insertion of the adductor magnus. Their shape is sometimes broad and flat; sometimes rounded and pro- minent, with a narrow neck. Their structure is that of ordinarv