51 THE ADUESITE INFLAMMATION. the infiltration of lymph into the cellular tissue, and its conversion into a tissue of gristly firmness. 6. Adhesion morbidly Perverted.—Under certain peculiarities of constitution the lymph effused, whether in spontaneous inflammation, or in that excited by injury, may acquire various morbid modes of development, of which examples will be found under the head of tubercular and cancerous diseases. Is Adhesion truly an Injlammatory Process 9 — The student can hardlj' fail to notice a contrariety in the expressions used by various authors in speaking of adhesion. Some speak of the adhesive injlam- mation as a most beneficial process, without which even the wound made in venmsection would be fatal. Others speak of inflammation as a thing altogether contrary to, and destructive of adhesion; and treat the latter when occurring beneficially in the repair of wounds, as a purely non-inflauimatory process. To reconcile this apparent con- tradiction it must be observed, that they who regard adhesion as an inflammatory process, admit that the degree of inflammation is ex- tremeljOow; so low that it is attended with no heat and no pain; and that if the inflammation proceed beyond this degree, the lymph instead of becoming organized will be broken up into pus;—so that they use in practice precisely the same measures for keeping inflam- mation at a low pitch, which the other party use with the view of preventing any inflammation at all. Looking at our definition of inflammation, as a state of altered nutrition accompanied with in- creased vascularity, it is difficult to exclude adhesion, as it commonly occurs, from being considered an inflammatory process. Treatment.—If it be the object to promote adhesion, the general principles of treatment are, to maintain the most perfect rest and apposition, and to use such local and constitutional measures as will prevent heat, pain, and throbbing; in other words, to prevent the inflammation from proceeding to a grade of greater intensity than the adhesive. In a few cases (as after the operation for harelip in a languid scrofulous habit) it may be necessary to e.xcite the energies of the system by wine, to render them sufficient for the production and healthy organization of Ij'mph. If it be wished to counteract the adhesive inflammation; then use must be made of the antiphlogistic treatment generallj^ and of mercury in particular. If it be wished to remove adhesions, or thickening, the results of previous acute or existing chronic inflammation, the general rules must be attended to which were laid down for the treatment of chronic in- flammation. Alercury is the most efficient internal remedy, and for an e.xample of its use to remove adhesion, reference may be made to chronic iritis. The local means that may be used to remove the thick- ening left by a quite subdued inflammation of any external part, are friction, stimulating liniments, F. 143, 15U, ointments containing iodine, or mercury; gentle exercise ; shampooing ; pressure by bandages or otherwise; cold affusion ; electricity and galvanism ; dis-