363 PURnLENI 0PUTHAL3IIA. citrine ointment. The ej'e should be opened with ver}' great delicacy'; because if the cornea is beginning to suppurate, it might easily be burst, and the lens be squeezed out. Moreover, it is better to wash out the eye by everting the lids and using a bit of rag or sponge, than by injecting with a syringe, which would create a risk of splashing some of tlie discharge into the operator’s eyes. The bowels should be cleared with a grain of calomel or gray powder, followed by a little castor oil or rhubarb ; and if the disease has been neglected, and there is great tumefaction, a leech may be applied to the upper eyelid, and half a grain of calomel be given every eight hours, for three or four doses. If the insides of the lids beorae thickened, they must be treated as directed for t/ninitlar conjunctiva ; and a few threads of cotton, spread with blistering plaster, may be laid between the external ear and the head, so as to create a discharge. If the cornea ulcerate or slough, or if the discharge be obstinate, tonics are required (quin, sulph. gr. fs.— vel ext. cinchon. gr. iii. ex lacte), and the astringent collyria should be persevered with. V. Purulent Ophthalmia in Adults {Contagious or Egyp- tian Ophthalmia'). Symptoms.— This disease begins with stiffness, itching, and watering of the ej'e, with a sense of dust in it, and slight swelling of the lids, which stick together during sleep; and on examination of their internal surface, the palpebral conjunctiva is found to be intensely red, thick, and villous, like a fietal stomach injected. As the disease advances, the conjunctiva covering the globe becomes also intensely red, swollen, and villous, and discharges a copious secretion of pus. The swelling of the ocular conjunctiva is called cAcHioyfs. It is produced by a secretion of blood, Ijunph, and serum into the cellular tissue which connects the conjunctiva to the sclerotic; and it elevates the conjunctiva into a kind of roll around the margin of the cornea, which sometimes overlaps it entirely. These S3'mptoms are accompanied with severe burning pain, extending to the cheek and temple, and great headache and fever; the palpebrm also are swollen, tense, and shining, so that the patient cannot open the eye. Consequences.—This affection may lead to ulceration, or opacity, or perhaps sloughing of the cornea; or to adliesion of the iris; or to impairment of vision, from extension of inllammation to the internal parts of the globe. Causes.—It maybe produced by severe local irritation, as the intro- duction of lime, for instance. It is endemic in Kgypt, owing to the glaring sunshine and the particles of sand with which the air is loaded. It may also be produced b}' the close damp atmosphere loaded with animal vapour that results from crowding many persons together in a confined space, and from the neglect of cleanliness and ventilation; hence its prevalence amongst the military in barracks; in schools; and on board ship; especially amongst the wretched inmates of slave-ships. But when once produced by any cause whatever, it is most probably both contagious and infectious ; that is, capable of being propagated