AMAUKOSIS. 390 amaurosis. 4. That a patient with cataract is always able to discern light from darkness, and that he looks about him and moves his eyes as though conscious that vision still exists, although he may be unable to discern particular objects ; whereas in confirmed amaurosis there is a peculiar fixed vacant stare, and the eyeball is protruded and motionless. .5. That in pure amaurosis the three images of a candle are as distinct as in the healthy eye, which is not the case in cataract. Prognosis.—This is generally unfavourable — unless the disease depends on some palpable cause which admits of removal, and unless the remedial measures employed very soon produce good effects. Varieties.— Amaurosis has been divided into the functional and organic: the former depending on some sympathetic or other disorder which does not primarily affect the structure of the nervous apparatus of the eye—the latter on organic disease. Causes.—The usual causes of amaurosis are circumstances that over-stimulate and exhaust the retina; such as long-continued exer- tion of the eye on minute objects ; or e.xposure to glaring light, espe- cially if combined with heat—and these exciting causes are particu- larly aided by intemperance, stooping, tight neckcloths, too much sleep in bed, and any other circumstances capable of producing determina- tion of blood to the head. Amaurosis may .also be a consequence of organic change, inflammation, concussion, compression from extrava- sated blood, fractured bone, morbid effusions, tumours or aneurisms— whether affecting the brain, optic nerves, or eye. Treatment.—The indications in every case are, 1. To rectify any ^ palpable disorder—inflammation or plethora b)"^ depletion ; debility by tonics. 2. To neutr.alise determination of blood to the eye or head by counter-irritation. 3. To stimulate and restore the excitability of the retina. For pr.actic.al purposes, it will be convenient to classify the disease imder the five following heads, viz. 1. Infl.ammatory; 2. Atonic ; 3. Sympathetic c.ases ; 4. Those produced by poisons; .and 5. By organic disease. 1. Inflammatory.—(u.) If am.aurosis be attended with any of the sjTnptoms of retinitis that have been before enumerated ; (i.) Or if it suddenl}' follow some injury to the ej'e, such as a punc- tured wound, or blow on the naked eyeball, or exposure to a flash of lightning ; or if the patient has been engaged in occup.ations that necessarily tax the eye severely, such as reading and writing much by candle-light; exposure to the intense light reflected from snow ; star- ing at .an eclipse of the sun, .and so forth ; (c.) Or if there are plethora, head.ache, giddiness, red turgid coun- tenance, with a hot skin and a hard pulse,—and if there are frequent flashes of light, or streams of red-hot balls seen before the eyes (espe- cially when stooping, or undergoing some active exertion); (f/.) Or if the complaint h.as followed a suppression of .any accus- tomed ev.acuation, such as bleeding from piles ; or the translation of