HYDEOPnOBIA. IGl But a correct diagnosis may generally be formed by attentive obser- vation ;—by endeavouring to detect the inconsistencies, as it were, that are so frequent in hysteria ;—the intervals of perfect complacency and cheerfulness, if the patient can be engaged in conversation, and led to forget his malady;—and by the sudden accession and instant urgency of the false hydrophobia, compared with the more gradual accession of the real. Yet it must be confessed that the diagnosis is by no means always easy. There was a remarkable case at the Middlesex Hospital in the autumn of 1837, which at first so exactly resembled hj'steria, and afterwards the delirium of cerebral irritation, or com- mencing inflammation, that few of the medical attendants could at first persuade themselves that it was real hydrophobia, and even some of those who believed so at first, altered their opinions afterwards. But although there was not much dysphagia, still the irritability of the ski?i,—the shrinkimj and convidsions and catchiny of the breath induced by the sliyhtest breath of air, and the salivation, enabled Dr. Hawkins to fonu a correct diagnosis.* Preventiv'e Tue.vTiMent.—As soon as possible after the bite of a suspected animal, the whole wound should be excised or cauterized, or both. Mr. Youatt recommends the nitrate of silver ; and he certainly has a right to speak in favour of it, since he has been bitten manj’’ times, and has escaped, though he used no other preventive; and since he gives instances in which out of several animals bitten by the same dog, those who were cauterized by the nitrate of silver escaped all further mischief, whilst some which had the wound excised, or cauter- ized with a hot iron, were subsequently infected with rabies. These are certainlj' strong facts in favour of using the nitrate of silver, but cases have occurred in which the immediate and free application of it was useless. The rule generally given, however, is that the bitten part should be cut out, care being taken to carry the knife wide of the bite. After this, bleeding should be encouraged by the application of a cupping- glass ; or the wound should be long and diligently washed in warm water. And then (especially if the bite have been irregular, so that it is uncertain whether the excision has been complete) the raw sur- face may be cauterized by the nitrate, or by nitric acid, or, as Sir B. Brodie recommends, by passing a probe which has been dipped into caustic potass (melted in an iron spoon) into every nook and corner of the wound. When we consider that substances introduced fairly into the blood maj'' find their way all over the body in an inconceivably short space of time (probably in nine seconds +) it will be readily seen that exci- sion or cauterization, although performed as soon as possible after the bite, may be of no avail. Yet they should never be omitted, let the in- terval be what it may. And one case is recorded in which it is said, * Loiul. Med. Oaz., Nov. 4, 1837. Scvcml instructive cases may bo found in tbe Lancet, especially one by ,\Ir. Hodgson, Lancet, 1838—39, p. 582. t Blake, Edin. Med. and Surg. Jouru., Jan. 1840. 51