CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. 330 feverishness for a few days, which may easily he aggravated into a fatal inflammation of the brain. 2. If the concussion be very severe, it may be followed by death; although this is not often the case, unless there is also a fracture of the skull, or extravasation of blood within the brain. The degree of danger in any case may be estimated by the degree in which the spinal and ganglionic systems appear to be implicated. If, therefore, the pulse and respiration continue feeble for many hours; if the eyelids do not move when irri- tated, and the legs are not drawn up when the soles of the feet are tickled, the prognosis will be serious. 3. Concussion is occasion- allj'' succeeded by a peculiar state of insensibility, which may last some days. The patient lies as if in a tranquil sleep; his pulse is regular ; but on the slightest exertion it rises to 130 or 140, and the carotids beat vehemently; when roused he answers questions, but immediate!}’’ relapses into unconsciousness. Some patients in this state resemble somnambulists ; they may get out of bed, bolt the door, shave, or make water, but still are insensible to what passes around. 4. It may leave a very infirm state of the health and intellect ; impairment of the memory, or of the senses, especially of smell and hearing; and a constant tendency to inflammation, and to extravagant actions after drink or any other excitement. Pathology.—The brain is often found bruised, or ecchj’mosed, or lacerated; but still concussion may be fatal, without any injury that can be detected by dissection. Treatment.—The indications are: 1. to recover the patient from insensibility and collapse; 2. to prevent inflammation; 3. to restore any faculties that may remain impaired. 1. In order to fulfil the first indication, friction of the surface with the hand, and the application of warmth to the feet, may be resorted to, if the depression is very great, and the pulse very low ; but it is better in most cases to leave the patient to recover by himself, than to be officious in administering stimulants, as they would increase the effusion of blood, supposing the brain to be lacerated. Mr. Guthrie’s sentiments on this point are very decisive. “ It is useless to open the patient’s veins,” he observes, “ for they cannot bleed until he begins to recover, and then the loss of blood would probably kill him. It is as improper to put strong drinks into his mouth, for he cannot swal- low; and if he should be so far recovered as to make the attempt, they might probably enter the larynx and destroy him. If he be made to inhale strong stimulating salts, they will probably give rise to mflammation of the inside of his nose and throat to his subsequent great distress.” * 2. After reaction has taken place, the bowels should be freely acted on, and perfect rest and low diet should be observed. If the pulse becomes hard and frequent, and if the patient complains of pain or * Guthrie, G. J., on Injuries of the Head affecting the Brain. Lond. 1842, p. 11.