394 LONG AND SHORT SIGHT. greater distance from the eyes, till the patient has acquired the faculty of reading at the ordinary focal distance—that is to say, at about fif- teen inches. The glasses which are adapted for shortness of sight are concave ; since they tend to disperse the rays of light, and prevent their coming to a focus so soon. They should not on any account be resorted to, however, if the patient can go on pretty comfortably without them; or at all events should onlj' be worn when required to prevent him from stooping awkwardly whilst reading or playing music. But if the myopia is very decided, or if the e}'es feel fatigued after any ordinary use of them, it will be better to wear the glasses continually. Spectacles should alwaj's be used in preference to a single glass. The patient should choose a pair that enables him to see objects within forty feet as distinctly as other people,—the names on the corners of the street for instance ; but should not have them so concave as to make objects appear dazzling, or smaller than usual. II. Prksbyopia, or longsightedness, depends apparently on a dimi- nished quantity and density of the humours of the eyeball, through which it becomes flatter, and its refractive powers are diminished. It needs scarcely be said that it is one of the earliest signs of impaired nutrition in old age. The patient's sight must be remedied by con- vex glasses; and whilst in myopia the patient should abstain from the use of glasses, if at all possible, in presbyopia, on the contrary, glasses ‘should be used immediately that the patient perceives that he cannot , read at the usual distance without fatigue to the eye; taking care that the lenses chosen are of the lowest power, that will assist vision and * The former of these cuts is intended to explain the nature of myopia, and the eltects of concave glasses; which disperse the rays and prevent their coming to a focus before they reach the retina. The latter is intended to show the re- verse state of things in presbyopia.