DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. 542 F. 67, SO as to keep down the pulse, and mercury, so as barely to affect the gums, if the disease does not readily yield to the tartar emetic alone ; cold lotions or warm fomentations, according to the pa- tient’s feelings, and a suspensory bandage to elevate the part. After the acute stage has subsided, strong astringent lotions, F. 117, may ( be employed, and subsequently friction with mercurial ointment, in o^er to remove the hardness and swelling which (as the patient /should always be informed) remain after the acute attack. As soon ' as the very acute stage has subsided, covipression will be found a useful means of reducing the swelling, and supporting the dilated vessels. The affected testicle is gra.sped and separated from its fellow, and then is encircled with strips of adhesive plaster, which are to be applied regularly and as tightly as the patient can bear ; the first strap being applied round the spermatic cord iiumediatelj' above the testicle, and the others downwards in succession, slightly overlapping each other.* II. Chronic Inflammation (sarcocele) is known bj’ more or less hardness, swelling, tenderness, and occasional pain. Verj" often it commences in the epididymis. It may be a sequel of acute inflam- mation, or may be caused bj"^ disease in the urethra, or disorder of the health. It sometimes depends on a syphilitic taint, which will be probable, if the patient has the aspect of secondary syphilis, if the pain is principally severe at night, and if there are secondary venereal affections of other parts. It very often, in its latter stages, is accom- panied with some degree of effusion into the tunica vaginalis {hydro- sarcocele). It may be distinguished from malignant disease, by the distinction between testis and epididymis not being lost; by its often affecting both testes ; by the greater uniformity and smoothness of the swelling, its slower progress, and the absence of glandular enlargement in the groin. As it increases, the tumour softens in parts, thus again presenting similarity to malignant disease; but when it softens it is not so largo as malignant disease would be. On examination, the testicle is found to contain a peculiar yellow deposit, which is inter- spersed in its substance, and, according to Sir B. Brodie and hlr. Curling, is deposited into the tubuli seminiferi, and maj' be found extending into the vas deferens. Treatment.—The patient must be confined to his bed or sofa, calomel with opium be administered till it begins to touch the gums, the bowels be kept open, the diet nutritious but not stimulating, and the part be suspended. If an ordinary course of mercury seems inexpedient, the iodide of potassium, or corrosive sublimate, with sarsaparilla, F. 82, 86, &c. Tonics will probably be of service. The part may be fre- * This practice, whicli was firet rccominoiKied by Fricke of Hamburg, was adopted by Ricord, and introduced into this country by Mr. Acton and Mr. Langston Parker; it seems to bo generally approved of, and is recommended by Mr. T. Biizard Curling in his Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Testis, &c.. Lend. 1843 ; a work of the highest character, and greatest utility. See also Ciosar Hawkins, bond. Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. iv. p. 943.