565 ■\VniTLOW. IX. Whitlow, or Paronychia, signifies an abscess of the fingers. There are three kinds; the cuta7icous, the subcuta7icous, and the tendinous. The cutaneous whitlow consists of inflanimatidn of the surface of^the skin of the last phalanx, with burning pain, and effusion of a serous or bloody fluid which elevates the cuticle into a bladder. The subcutaneous is attended with greater pain and throbbing, and suppuration under the skin at the root of the nail, which may come off. Treatment.—Search should be made for foreign particles sticking in the skin ; purgatives should be given, and the part be fomented in hot water; but if these measures do not speedily cause resolution, a pretty free incision should be made into the infiamed part. If the tip of the 1 finger is long painful and tender without suppurating, it should be well, V pencilled with lunar caustic. Aperients and tonics are always oP^ service. The resin ointment is recommended by Mr. Vincent as an application, after the part has been opened. The tendinous tvhitlow, or thecal abscess, affects the deeper seated tissues, and was described at p. 209. We may observe here, how- ever, that the finger should be freely laid open with a scalpel. If matter have extended into the palm, the incision should be continued along the metacarpal bone till it freely gushes out. It is better not to cut into the spaces between the metacarpal bones, (unless matter points there very decidedly indeed), for fear of wounding the digital artery. If it be necessary to slit up the palmar fascia, a cut should be made over the head of a metacarpal bone, in order that a director may be passed under it. X. Si’uiiiou.s Anchylosis.—In cases of spunous anchi/losis (p. 271)—that is to say, stiffness of joints depending on rigidity of the surrounding tissues, or on permanent contraction of the flexor mus- cles owing to their having been long kept in a fixed position, divi- sion of the tendons of the contracted muscles will do much towards restoring the mobility of the joint. The tendons of the hamstring muscles have been divided by Mr. Philips with great success in a case of stiffened knee from rheumatism. The pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major and teres minor muscles have been divided by Dief- fenbach in order to effect the reduction of an old dislocation of the shoulder ; and the pectinmus and sartorius by an American surgeon, in a case of contracted hip. All these operations are, of course, to bo per- formed by what is called subcutaneous section ; that is, in the same manner in which the tendo Achillis is divided. The muscle or tendon must be put on the stretch, and a puncture be made on one side of it. Then a curved blunt-pointed bistoury may bo passed under it, and be made to divide it. In many cases it is necessary to divide the fascia; under the knee or in the sole of the foot, as well as the tendons. A few days after either ol these operations some apparatus must be applied by which gradual extension may be made.