CnKONIC INFLAsniATION. 43 pains in the testicle, subacute attacks of orchitis, and inflammation of the urethra with discharge. In an}’’ such case attention should be paid to the quality of the urine, to ascertain whether more than the normal quantity of lithic acid is excreted, or less ; the latter condition being by far the more pernicious of the two. In either ease, benefit may be derived from the cautious use of colchicum, F. 6.0, &c., and in cases in which the urine is unusu.ally clear and of low specific gravity, anomalous s}nnptoms often disappear magically on the appearance of a red deposit in the urine. But in treating the gouty diathesis, great regard must be paid to the blood-making powers of the patient, and the surgeon must not fall into the vulgar error that starvation and vegetable diet are the best preventives.* On the contrary, whilst the liver and kidneys are being solicited to execute their functions, by mercury, colchicum, alkalis, guiacum, iodide of potassium, &c., F. 65, 7'2, 94, 96, 55, &c., it is often necessary to support the strength and invigorate the digestive organs by bitters, and especially by the mineral tonics, F. 9, 11, 13, 15, &c. (8.) Of chronic inflammations of rheumatic origin, the general theory of treatment is the same as of the gouty. (9.) Of the alteratives that are most useful in dispelling chronic inflammation, we have already mentioned mercury and antimony ; next to these in importance is the iodide of potassium, F. 94, 95, in combination with tonics, sedatives, alkalis, iodine or steel, as cir- cumstances may direct. Its powers of unloading congestion, all.ay- ing irritability, and restoring secretion, no one can doubt. Alkalis, especially the liq. potassae, F. 78, are of great service in full-blooded people, with scanty red urine ; the best rule which we can give is, that they will most likely be useful if the face is fluslied after meals. On the value of sarsaparilla we shall speak when treating of scrofula. Serpentaria and senega are of great service in chronic inflammation of mucous membranes. Small doses of corrosive sublimate in tincture of b.ark, F. 87, and the liquor arsenicalis, F. 97, are also useful in cer- tain chronic inflammations, especially of the skin and mucous mem- branes. In many of these the real evil seems to bo a w.ant of vigour, through which the tissues in question seem unable to maintain their vitality. It is on this principle that miner.al tonics, as arsenic, zinc, and copper, and the mineral acids seem to do good, by giving a better quality to the materials assimilated. Local Treatment.—This has for its objects, to remove exciting causes, to unload the distended vessels and make them contract to their n.atural calibre, .and to exercise the part in its proper func- tions, so that it m.ay gradually resume the .actions and sensations of hciilth. Local hieediny must be employed at intervals to unload the vessels, whilst they must be excited to contract by various stimulants and as- tringents ; such .as the sulphates of zinc, copper, and alumina, nitrate * Vide Todd, on Gout and Rheumatism, Lond. 1843.