DISEASES OP THE BONES. •214 bone, sometimes dense and compact, especially when they grow from the frontal or temporal bones; sometimes porous in the centre, with a thin external cortex. Sometimes they are preceded by a growth of cartilage or fibrous tissue, which ossifies ; sometimes they are bony from the first, and are formed as it were by a development of one par- ticular part of a bone, perhaps a natural process or spine. The adjoining figure is an illustration. They cause no pain, unless they happen to press on nerves or arte- ries ; but they may by their bidk interfere with the functions of va- rious important parts, and give rise to the most serious evils. When situated on the inner surface of the skull, they may cause epilepsy; in the orbit the}' may cause the eye to protrude on the cheek ;—they may obliterate arteries, and impede the action of muscles, and the move- ments of joints. Sometimes they arise without any very obvious cause; occasionally they originate in a blow, or strain, or in an unna- tural degree of pressime on a bone thinly covered by soft parts. Treatment.— In the first place, an attempt may be made to pro- cure absorption of the tumour by means of blisters, friction with oint- ment of mercury or iodine, and mercurial plasters. The more re- cent the tumour, the more effectual such measures are likely to be. Sometimes (especially if the com- plaint follow a blow) a moderate course of mercury, so as barely to affect the mouth, will be effectual. If these measures do not succeed, the tumour may be removed by operation if requisite on account of the inconvenience it produces. If it is globular, with a narrow neck, it may be cut down upon, and be sawn or chiseled off, or cut off with a gouge. But supposing that its base is broad, so that this cannot be done, its periosteum may be shaved off; after which it will probably perish by necrosis, or else waste away ; or the nitric acid, or potassa fusa may be applied to its surface, to cause it to exfoliate. But these operations are not to be undertaken without due forethought; for they may be followed by extensive inflammation and necrosis, or by suppu- ration into a joint: and in operating on an exostosis near a joint, the