114 IKCISED WOUNDS. name collodion. This when applied to any surface dries instantly, forming a semi-transparent film of considerable tenacity, adhering firmly, and forming an artificial scab under which wounds often heal without any suppuration. In applying it, the edges of the wound should be held together as exactly as possible by an assistiint, whilst a thick layer of the collodion is smeared across with a brush or small spatula. This substance contracts so strongly that it should be put on in one layer, once for all; not in repeated layers, else those which are put on afterwards will drag off those applied first. Sutures.—In some cases it is requisite to have recourse to sutures, in order to get a better purchase upon the edges of tlie wound, and hold them securely in contact. They should be used in wounds of parts that are naturally loose and moveable, or that have no firm part underneath against which they can be fixed. Thus the interrupted suture is used in wounds of the eyelids, scrotum, and female perinaeum, and when a portion of the nose or ear has been detached; and the twisted suture in wounds of the lips; in the cases in fact in which adhesive plaster would be insufficient. But adhesive strips should always be placed in the intervals of the stitches, to prevent any strain upon them. They may be removed in from three to four days;— sooner if violent irritation comes on;—but not so soon if there is no great action. The surgeon must never employ them in order forcibly to drag the lips of a gaping wound into contact, or they will give great pain, and his inten- tions will be frustrated by their speedily ulcer- ating. Five species are enumerated in the older authors. 1. The 5'M<are is thus made. A needle aimed with a single ligature is passed through one lip of the woundyVow without, in- wards;—then at a corresponding part through the other W^from within, outwards. Then the ends of the ligature (which may be made of silk, or stout hempen thread, well waxed and flattened, that it may lie easily in the wound) are to be drawn together, without, however, any great straining, and are to be tied tightly in a double reef knot, as represented in the adjoining figure. The needle should be carried deeply enough to obtain a fimi hold, but should not include any tendinous part. As many of these stitches arc to be made as arc necessary; half or three quarters of an inch is a proper interval. 2. The Twisted Suture is made thus. The edges of the wound having been placed accurately in contact, a sufficient number of pins are to be passed through both of them at convenient distances. The first pin should be placed at any loose angle which there may happen