FATTY DEGENERATION. The treatment of hypertrophy must consist in removing the causes if possible. IV. Atrophy is the reverse of li3'pertrophy; it is the wasting of an organ in size, with probably a degeneration of its structure into one of lower powers, or a transmutation of its tissues into fat. As hj'pertroph}’’ is not increase of bulk mereh’, so atrophy itself may be accompanied with no decrease of bulk, or even with an increase; but then, the increase is due to an interstitial deposit of fat, whilst the proper working tissue of the organ is decreased. The causes of atrophy are—1st. Disuse, or want of e.xercise, which is sure to cause anj- organ, be it brain or muscle, to waste. 2ndly. Diminished supply of blood may in some cases cause atrophy, as in others it causes ulceration or gangrene; but an organ whose vitalit}’’ is active is almost sure to attract blood enough to itself, if there is no utter physical obstacle to the current. 3rdl}% Deficiency in the blood of the materials necessarj' for health}' growth and nutrition of an organ is a third cause. This maj' be exemplified by the atroplij' of bone and muscle when there is an in- sufficient supply of food, or when the materials necessary for them are wasted by undue secretion : as in mollities ossitem. 4thlj'. Deficient vitality;—deficiency of that power by which every organ is enabled to maintain its growth, and to abstract from the blood the materials for its nutrition. This again may be caused by exhaustion;—by excessive fatigue;—by over use or abuse of a part; —by disease, which has spoiled its tissue;—by injuries to the nervous centres or trunks supplying it; and, lastl}', it constantly happens that when the vital powers of the whole bod}' are well nigh exhausted by illness, by starvation, or by exposure to cold, one particular organ may be irretrievably blighted, though the remainder may recover their accustomed health. The amaurosis whicli occurs in anaemic subjects, and the wasting of one leg or arm after fever are instances. The treatment will be exemplified under the heads of atrophy of muscle, and of bone. V. Fatty Dege.veration. — One of the most curious points established by modern patliologists is the fact that most tissues in the course of atrophy, are liable to have their proper substance replaced by fat; that substance, of all others in the animal neconomy which differs least from inorganic matter. Fatty degeneration is liable to affe*t the muscles, and particularly the heart; it may occur in the bones and cartilage; in tlie liver of the consumptive, the lungs of the emphysematous, and the kidneys of those who die of Bright’s disease. It may even affect unnatural as well as natural structure, and is found in the parasitic cells of cancer. It is sometimes, particu- larly in the aged, attended with a general tendency to obesity; but not always, or of necessity ; for examples of fatty degeneration of single organs may be found in bodies which otherwise arc extremely emaciated. V I. Senile Degeneration.—As man is born for a limited term of