427 AFFECTIONS OF TUE TEETH AND GUMS. able, a \ shaped portion may be cut out from its anterior extremity, and the cut surfaces be united by suture after the bleeding vessels are tied, and oozing has ceased. VII. Canceii.—A foul e.xcavated ulcer, with extremely hardened base, and prominent edges, with burning and lancinating pain, and preceded by nodular deposit below the mucous membrane. The con- stitutional symptoms are those of the cancerous cachexia. Treatment.—The diseased part should be early extirpated with the knife ; or, if extensive, with ligatures, in the manner before described. VIII. Ulcers on the Tongue, presenting very formidable characters, and hardly distinguishable from cancer, sometimes arise from the irritation of rotten teeth, or from disorder of the health. Like similar ulcers on the skin, they consist of an hypertrophied and altered state of the epithelium, and contain, according to Hughes Bennett, no real cancer cells. The indications are, to remove rough teeth, to keep up the secretions, to regulate the diet, and support the strength. Plummer’s pill, sarsaparilla, or F. 87, arsenic, hyoscyamus, and conium, and the local and general treatment of irritable ulcers, will be of service ; if not, the diseased part should be extirpated.* IX. Stam.mering.— This affection requires to be noticed here, because two operations, within the last few years, have been proposed for the cure of it. They consisted in making deep gashes in the tongue, and in extirpation of the uvula and tonsils,—proceedings so barbarous and irrational, that it is surprising that surgeons could be found to do, or patients to submit to them. SECTION V.—AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH AND GUMS. I. Lancing of the Gums of children may be performed for two reasons. If the gum is swelled, inflamed, and tender, and a tooth not quite ready to come through, a free but sliallow incision may be made in it with a fine lancet, for the purpose of letting blood flow. But if it is tightly stretched over a tooth, which is bursting through, the incision should be carried down to the bottom so as to release it entirely. II. Irkegul.vuity of the Perma.nent teeth is a consequence of contracted and ill-formed jawbones. If either of the canine teeth, or of the incisors of either jaw, project much, the patient should bo taught perpetually to endeavour to push it back into its proper situation with his fingers. But if at the ago of fourteen or fifteen this method has not succeeded, and the teeth are much crowded, the projecting tooth a similar ca.se, cured l)y purgatives and incision, by Mr. Taynton, Med. Gaz. vol. xii.; wlio speaks of it as tlio only c.ase lie bad seen in a iiractico of forty years; and one by Mr. Collins [ib. p. 642) in a pregnant woman, cured by an incision in the ra|)he on the under surface. * See an interesting case, Hughes Bennett, op. cit. p. 12C.