36G GRANULAR CONJUNCTIVA. trated stimulants render the eye susceptible to chronic inflammation and jTranular conjunctiva afterwards. VII. Scrofulous Ophthal.mia {phbjdemdar opluhalmia) gene- rally attacks children under eight years of age, but is not uncommon in adults. Extreme intolerance of light ; the lids spasmodically closed ; the head turned obstinately away from the light; no general vascularity of the conjunctiva, but one or two enlarged vessels runnin<r towards the cornea, and terminating at one or more phlyctenula, or small opake pimples (or sometimes pustules) at the margin of the . cornea. This, like other scrofulous diseases, is extremelv obstinate, and liable to recur frequentlj'. Treatment.—The first and chief point is to look after the general health. The alimentary canal, therefore, should be cleared by an emetic and dose of calomel and jalap, and, after feverishness has sub- sided, recourse must be had to tonics, aperients, and antacids, and to the other general remedies directed for scrofula. Quinine is particu- larly recommended by Mackenzie, and a combination of quinine with sulphate of iron (F. 16, &c.) by ]\Ir. Walton; the sulphate of bebeerine by Dr. IT. L. Williams. Pure air is essential. Seeondly. Various applications are recommended to relieve the distressing intolerance of light, such as cold lotions applied to the outside of the eye, and to the forehead and temples; or water to which a little vinegar or spirit, or nitric aether has been added ; or the wdiite of egg curdled with alum, or warm poultices, or dec. papav. vet anthemid., or exposing the eye to the vapour of warm water, or to the vapour of laudanum or sp. camph., which may be put into a teacup and be held in warm water; or warm lotions of ext. belladon. vcl hyoscyami (9i. ad jj. aquae), or those extracts smeared on the brow, and small doses of extract of conium internally. But the use of local applications is doubtful. Both i eves should be protected by a shade. Thirdly, in the advanced sTa^e" of the disease, benefit may be derived from dropping in a few drops of vin. opii or lotion of nitrate of silver (gr. i. ad ^i.) once a day. T'lII. Granular Conjunctiva signifies a thick, rough, flesh}-, state of that membrane (especially of that part of it which lines the evelids), and is a frequent consequence of severe and long-continued ophthalmia, orjirobably of treatment by applications of too irritating, a kind. It does not depend, ns its name would seem to imply, on the fonhatTon of granulations, but on an hypertrophy of the villous surface ' of the mucous membrane. It causes great pain and disturbance to the motions of the eye, aiid, if it continues, will render the cornea opake by its friction. Treatment.—The directions generally given are, that the thickened part should be scarified ; then, after one or two days, it should be touched with lunar caustic or sulphate of coppei', and the scarification and caustic should be repeated^fefnateTy at intervals of two or three davs, and that, if these measures prove fruitless, the thinnest possible layer of the granular surface should be shaved oflf with a fine knife or