TUMOURS OF THE SKIN. •202 Trcatinent.—The points to be attended to are, to have the boots or shoes properly adapted to the shape and size of the foot;—to wash the feet frequently in warm water; to cover the corns constant!}’’ with a plaster composed of equal parts of soap-plaster and oil, spread on kid leather; or, if they are very tender, with a bit of linen thickly spread with spermaceti ointment, so that .they may be kept soft and pliable, not hard and dry; and to remove the growths of cuticle frequently with a blunt knife. If these directions are attended to, a cure may be confidently promised in ordinary cases. But some feet are so misshapen originally, or the toes are so crowded together by wearing small, low, pointed shoes, that it is impossible to contrive any shoes that will not press and create corns somewhere. In some of these cases the application of several plasters of thick soft leather, each having a hole punched in it to receive the corn and relieve it from pressure, is a very useful device. But if the corn is on the sole of the foot, it must be covered with a piece of adhesive plaster spread on linen, before the circular plasters are applied, otherwise the weight of the body will cause the flesh to bulge into the holes, and occasion much pain in walking. Sometimes it is useful to put a sole of felt into.the shoe, with a hole in it to receive the corn. If the cuticle is e.xcessively hard, its exfoliation may be hastened by rub- bing it with nitrate of silver, or liniment of ammonia, or by touching it with a hair pencil dipped in strong nitric acid, or the chloride of antimony. For the soft corns between the toes, the nitrate of silver is the best application. When a corn inflames, and the bursa between it and the skin suppurates, the pain is often most excruciating, and only to be relieved by paring it down and letting out the fluid. IV. Horny Tumours are formed by an inspissation of the matter of the sebaceous follicles, and by laminated growths of epithelium from their interior. They are easily removed by two oval incisions.* V. Cheloid Tumour.—Under this name is described a peculiar tumour, consisting apparently of a thickened reddish patch of skin, partly covered with a thin wrinkled epidermis, and generally found in clusters on the neck and breast. This disease is rare; and seldom or never leads to ulceration, although it is occasionally the seat of shoot- ing pains.+ VI. Tumours of Cicatrices.—The coloured races of mankind are occasionally liable to an hypertrophy of the skin at the site of some old cicatrix. Extirpation with the knife is the only remedy. VII. Cancroid, or Semi-malignant and Malignant Affec- xioNS.—The characteristics of cancroid or semi-malignant growths are, that they resemble malignant disease in many outward respects; that is, that they are incurable if left to themselves, destroying the tissues in which they are situated, spreading progressively and destroying the parts in their vicinity, and being finally fatal to life from their constant • Vide Erasmus Wilson, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvii. + Warren on Tumours, p. 40; Burgess's Translation of Cazenave, p. 305; Mayo's Pathology, p. 236.