4G ADHESION OR THE membrane, but from portions of adherent lymph, which have become vascular, and whose newly-formed capillaries have^been over-distended and ruptured. Diagnosis.—Inflammatory or active hsemorrhage is distinguished from that which is the result of congestion or debility, by the presence of pain, heat, and throbbing, and of a febrile state of the pulse and system generally. Treatment.—This form of haemorrhage is to be treated by bleeding if it can be borne ; and it may be observed, that it is less debilitating to employ one full venesection, so that the cause may be at once removed, than to let tlic blood dribble perpetually away from the part in small quantities ; and bj' purgatives and sedatives, especially lead and opium (F. 34, 35, 75). Cold, if it can be applied, perfect rest, and an elevated position, are the local measures. (2.) In 2}nssivc luemorrhage the blood which escapes is venous. The principal instances of it are haemorrhage from the nose in old sub- jects with diseased liver; melaena, or haemorrhage from the liver, and p.as8ive menorrhagia and hmmorrhois. The chief remedies are, dilute sulphuric acid, sulphate of alumina, acetate of lead, catechu, gallic acid, and other vegetable astringents, and ergot of rye. F. 186, 187, 14, &c. CHAPTER VIII. OF ADHESION OR THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. Adhesion, or the Adhesive Inflammation,* is a process in which the fibrine or lymph of the blood is effused and organized. It is the process by which wounded and fractured parts are united ;—by which loss of substance is restored, whether produced by injury or disease;— by which cysts are formed for abscesses, so as to prevent the diffusion of pus an other morbid fluids through the cellular tissue;—byjvhich wounded intestines are glued together so as to prevent the extravasa- tion of their contents; and which in disease produces thickening and consolidation of organs, and obliteration of their cavities. The Material employed in this process, is the fibrine or coagu- lable Ij-mph of the blood, mixed, no doubt, as Mr. Paget observes, with its normal proportion of fatty and saline matters. The leadmg cha- racteristics of this substance are, first, its power to become tnere or less solid; then to develop itself into some form of orgiinic structure. “ Its chief tendency,” says Mr. Paget, “ is to develop itself into the common fibro-cellular, or connective tissue—the lowest form of vascular • For a full account of the subject of this chapter, see Professor Paget’s Lectures on the processes of repair, &o. delivered at the College of Surgeons, 1849. Med. Gaz. 1849.