302 VARICOSE ANEURISM. of the blood, and dilates into a sac. This is to be treated like the last case ; by two lipitures, one immediately above, the otlier below the wounded part, if careful compression fails to effect a cure. Aneurismal V.vrix is produced when an arterj' is punctured through a vein, (the brachial artery through the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow for instance) and they adhere together, the communication between them remaining permanent. The consequence is, that blood passes from the artery into the vein at each beat of the pulse, causing it to become enlarged and tortuous, and to present a vibrating thrill at each pulse. Varicose Aneurism is said to exist when an artery has also been punctured through a vein, and a false aneurism has formed between them, opening into both, and fanned of lymph that was effused between them. The difference between ajicurismcd varix varicose aneurism (which is a cause of perplexity to young students) is this : aneurismal W/-ZJ’ is a swelling of a vein, caused by the admission of arterial blood into it. Varicose aneurism is the same thing, but with the addition of a false aneurism, situated between the artery and vein. These two cases need not be interfered with unless they enlarge rapidly, or cause inconvenience. If they do, a ligature must be placed both above and below the wounded part of the artery. The IlAi-MORRHAHic Diathe.sis is a peculiar constitutional defect, which seems to consist in a want of contractility of the arteries, and of coagulability of the blood ; so that the slightest wound bleeds almost uncontrollably, and life inaj' be lost through the most trifling injury or surgical operation. If the existence of this diathesis be ascertained, surgeons would do well to refrain from operations with the knife on the individual possessing it. In a case of congenital phymosis, in a person of this kind, which fell under Mr. Liston’s care, he very judiciously employed the ligature instead of the knife. This diathesis often runs in families. Thus the history is recorded of four children who were ■ born of healthy parents ; their skins were white and complexions fair; thej' were very subject to fever with ecchymosis; their blood was veiw fluid, but coagulated in the usual manner; violent coughing easily produced hmmoptysis or epistaxis, and any slight injury caused ecchy- inosis of the skin. One died at twenty months from biting his tongue; another at eight years from general mucous h.x'inorrhagc, and a third at twelve from epistaxis. In a case of obstinate bleeding of this kind, pressure and the nitrate of silver local!}', and a nutritious diet with iron or the acetate of lead and opium, or gallic acid, or tur- pentine in very small doses, F. 7 4, seem to be the most hopeful reme- dies.* Of course in such cases as these it would be a great absurdity to tie .an arteri.al trunk at a distance, though the mistake has been committed. • Vide Brit, and For. Mod. Bov., .Tan. 1840; and two valuable papers bp Dr. Alban of tlie Haslar Hospital, and Mr. Miller of Edinburgh, in Ur. Comaek’s .lournal for .Tune and July 1842.