147 SNAKE BITES. SECTION II.—TREATMENT OF POISONED WOUNDS. In the first place, measures must be taken to remove the poison from the wound, or at all events to prevent it from passing into the blood. If no other means are at hand, a ligature should be tightlj' applied round the limb, as near as possible to the wound, and between it and the heart—so as to prevent the return of venous blood from it. Then it should be thoroughly sucked, taking care that the person who does so, has no sore nor recent abrasion in his mouth. A better plan, however, is to cut out the bitten part as freely as may be necessary, and then to suck the wound, and bathe it tho- roughly with warm water to encourage bleeding—a ligatm’e being also applied, as in the last case. But the best plan of all is that recommended by Sir David Barry,* who directs, first, that an exhausted cupping-glass shall be applied over the wound for a few minutes;—next, the glass is to be taken oft’, and the wound freely excised;—and, lastl}^ the glass is to be .applied .again in order to promote the flow of blood, and cause the re-exudation of .any of tlie poison that may have found its w.aj^ into the neighbouring blood-vessels.—The cupping-glass, used in this manner, without inter- rupting the general circulation of the limb, produces a complete afflux of all the fluids in the vicinity towards the wounded part, and prevents them from conveying their poisoned contents towards the centre of the circulation. The treatment of snake bites during the first stage, consists first in the administration of powerful diffusive stimulants, such as hot brandy and water, ammonia, or the eau dc luce^-Y to support the nervous sys- tem;—and, secondly, in the use of remedies which m.ay be supposed to eliminate the poison from the blood. Thus, if there is no vomiting, it should be excited by a mustard emetic, to get rid of the vast quan- tity of bile that is often formed in the blood and secreted by the liver under these circumsUnces; if, however, vomiting is spontaneous and too violent, it should be checked by a large dose of solid opium, and a mustard poultice to the epigastrium. But the principal remedy seems to be arsenic, which has long been popular for these accidents in the East Indies. It is usu.ally administered there in the form of a nos- trum, allied the T.-injore pills, each of which contains a grain of it, combined with certain unknown acrid plants. The efficacy of this mineral was also fully established in the West Indies by Mr. Ireland, surgeon to the ICth regiment, who employed it with perfect success in five cases of the bite of a serpent, which had previously killed several • Diivid Dairy, M.D. Experimental Researches on the Inliueuce exercised by Atmosplieric Pressure, <fcc. Eond. 182G. t Tinct, ammonia; comp, P. L. It contains oil of amber. Dose rqxxx. every half-hour.