148 TREATMENT OP SNAKE BITES. officers and men, some within six hours, and all within twelve.* He combined f5ij of the liquor arsenicalis with gtt. x. of tinct. opii (to prevent vomiting), f^ifi of peppermint water, and f^ss. of lime-juice. This draught, tvhich contains a grain of the arsenious acid, was given every half hour for six or eight doses, till it produced copious purg- ing (which was encouraged by clysters), or till the symptoms were ameliorated. The swelled parts were well rubbed with a liniment of olive oil, turpentine, and liquor ammoniaj;—and the patients, al- though for a time greatly debilitated, were soon able to return to their duty. Local applications.—The ipecacuanha poultice before spoken of, deserves a trial. Otherwise warm spirituous embrocations appear to be of most service. Very great swelling, or the effusion of semi-puru- lent fluid beneath fascia?, may render incisions necessarJ^ Oil has been very w'armly recommended, both as an internal and external remedy in these cases; and the fat of the viper, a strong nauseous substance, is said to be a specific for its bite.i* The treatment of the second stage will most likely require a combi- nation of cordials, opiates, and tonics. SECTION III OF INSECTS tVHICH BURY THEMSELVES UNDER THE SKIN. The inhabitants of warm climates are much pestered with insects of various kinds which burrow and propagate under the skin. The most remarkable of these is the Guinea Worm.—Dracunculus, or Filaria Medinensis,—a cylin- drical threadlike worm, but sometimes as thick as a crowquill, and several feet long. It is endemic in Africa, India, and other hot coun- tries; whence persons often return to England w'ith this pest about them. The worm appears, whilst exceedingly small, to penetrate the skin and effect a lodgement in the cellular tissue, where it remains dormant for some time, and gradually increases in size till it can be felt as a little tumour, or perhaps, as a cord-like ridge under the skin, feeling like a varicose vein. At last, following the rule of other foreign bodies and parasitic growths, it causes inflammation, and a very painful boilfonns, which breaks, and allows the animal’s head to protrude. Often, at this time, if injured, a considerable quantity of milky fluid exudes from it, which, on examination, is found to be full of small filaria?. If the case is neglected, violent inflammation and abscesses ensue; to prevent which, the animal must be carefully ex- tracted entire. If the head does not protrude, a cut should be made across the track of the animal, which should be gently lifted up, • A Letter to T. Chevalier, Esq. on the ellects of arsenic in counteracting the poison of serpents. Med. Chir. Trans. I8J3, vol. ii. p. 396. t Broschet says that tlio effects of a serpent’s bite on birds can be prevented by passing a cunent of galvanism through the bitten part.