THE GLANDERS. 164 Other sedatives and narcotics. The strength' should be kept up with whatever nutriment can be taken. And if the surgeon imagines that he can give any other remedj’- with a chance of benefit, and without adding to his patient'’s sufferings, let him do so. SECTION II.—OF THE GLANDERS. Syn.—Equinia. Elliotson. Definition.—The glanders is a disease of the horse tribe, communi- cable to man and other animals. It is chiefly manifested b}^ unhealthy suppuration of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavities, pustular eruptions on the skin, and unhealthy abscesses in the lymphatic system. Symptoms in the Horse.—It may occur in two forms, which, however, arc merely manifestations of the same disease in different parts. 'When seated in the lymphatic system, it is called farcy—when in the nasal cavities, gkmdcrs. But these two forms are essentially identical ; the pus of either of them will reproduce the other; and farcy always tenninates in glanders, if the animal live long enough, and its progress is not arrested. Farcy begins with hard, cord-like swellings of the lymphatic vessels and glands, ccHAcH farcy-huds. These slowly suppurate, and form un- healthy fistulous sores, which discharge a copious thin sanious matter. If suffered to proceed unchecked, farcy leads to glanders, although more frequently the latter arises first. Cdunders.—Its symptoms are, a continued flow of discharge from one or both the nostrils (generally the left), which discharge is at first thin and serous; then thick and glairy, like the white of egg; but after a time becomes opake, purulent, bloodj^ and horribly offensive, retaining, however, its visciditj'. Soon after it commences, an enlarged gland may be felt under the lower jaw adhering to the bone. The ne.xt things noticed are one or more ulcers on the Schneiderian mem- brane, having the sharp edges and scooped out character of chancre; these spread widely and deeply, and lead to caries of the bone. Then the lips and eyelids swell, and the conjunctival suppurate; and the exteniid parts of the face may become gangrenous, and the animal maj’’ die in a few days rvith putrid fever;—or he may perish more slowly;—the disease spreading to the lungs, and death being induced by cough, emaciation, hectic, and the formation of unhealthj' abscesses in the lungs and all over the body. The distinctive symptoms, accord- ing to Youatt, are the continuousness of the discharge, and the adhe- rence of the enlarged submaxillary gland.* Symptoms in Man.—This disease may appear either as glanders or farcy; either of which may be acute or chronic. Blaine, op. cit.; Youatt on tho Horse.