568 EXTIRPATION OF TUMOURS. IV. The after Treatment is no less important, and should be conducted so as to ward off the most probable sources of danger— , whether sinking from shock, or from loss of blood, or the occurrence of ' inflammation. The characteristic tendency of disease, at the present day, is decidedly toward phlebitis, erysipelas, diffused inflammations, and other maladies of a low type; and as we observed, when speaking of the prevention of phlebitis, it is most important that the patient should be supplied with beef-tea, and other nourishment, in sufficient quantity to maintain a healthy state of blohd ; and that he should be kept r' quiet. One of the most successful surgeons in London, always gives I his patients half a grain of opium every five or six hours for the first two or three days after an operation, for the purpose of tranquillizing the nervous system, and his success proves the benefit of the plan. V. Air in Veins.—The entrance of large quantities of'air into a vein is a most dangerous accident, that has sometimes occurred during the extirpation of tumours from the neck or axilla. A large vein being cut across, whose coats adhere to some firm textures around, so that they cannot collapse, a sort of bubbling, sucking noise is suddenly heard, the patient instantly faints, and generally dies soon afterwards. On examination the heart is found distended with air. If any such sound should be perceived during an operation, the surgeon should in- stantlj' put his fingers on the spot that it proceeds from, and the patient, if faint, should be kept in the recumbent position with the head low; and should be well plied with brandy. The air has no noxious properties in itself, and if introduced slowly, in small quantity, does no harm ; large quantities prove fatal by interfering mechanically with the action of the heart.* CHAPTER II. OF THE MINOR OPERATIONS. ^ . . I. E.xtirpation of Tumours.—A different proceeding is to be adopted in the case of malignant and of simple growths. In the former it may be necessary to remove a portion of skin by two semi-elliptical incisions, if it appears to be contaminated by the di.seased growth. But in extirpating wens or fatty or sarcomatous tumours, however large, it is a general rule not to remove any of the skin, unless it is much inflamed or ulcerated, or so entirely adherent to the tumour that its separation would be very tedious and difficult. Again, in the former case it is necessary to cut quite wide of the diseased mass, and remove plenty of the surrounding tissues, in the latter c.ase the inci- * For the host account of these curious cases, refer to Sir C. Boll's Practical Essays, Lond, 1841.