DISEASES OP TIIE CORNEA. 3C8 When an opacity of the former kind is slight and diffused, it is called nebula ; when denser and of a firmer aspect, albugo. Some- times the lymph forming an albugo becomes vascular, and one or more vessels run to it from the circumference of the eye, and the cornea becomes red and fleshy: this state of things is called pan- nus. Treatment.—1. All sorts of irritation .about the eye or lids (in- verted hairs, granular conjunctiv.a, &c.) must be removed, and any existing degree of inflammation be counteracted by proper measures. Then, 2, .absorption of the Ijnnph m.ay be promoted by counter-irri- .tants, such as blisters and the tartar emetic ointment ; by .alteratives jand measures calculated to improve the health ; aiid by the applic.a- tion of stimulants to the eye. The ordinary applications are, caustic lotion (gr. ii. ad or hydr. bichlor.’grrT.—ad aq. 53. ; vin. opii ; or, ung. jiydr. nit. o.x. Whichever is selected should not excite long- continued pain or active inflammation. Gooch used to cure opacit)' of the cornea, even of long standing, .and, in fact, other forms of chronic inflammation of the eye, by the .administration of corrosive sublimate, in doses that would now be considered Inazardous. He gave gr. ^ twice a day ; and in a few days’ time increased tlie dose to gr. i, and then to gr. i. It caused feverishness, purging, slight sweating, and head.ache. IV. Leucoma signifies an opake cicatrix of the cornea. If recent, it ina}' be partially removed by the measures just indic.ated for the cure of the opacity arising from adhesive inflammation. If of long standing, it is irremediable, and sometimes becomes the seat of calc.a- reous degeneration, a small particle of earthy matter being found in it, which may require remov.al because of its friction against the eyelids. Should both eyes be affected with leucoma, and should the opacity be exactly in front of the pupil, it will be right to make an artifici.al opening in the iris opposite some part of the cornea that is trans- parent. Mr. Bowman has described a case of ivartg opacity, caused by the development of vascular p.apillm, covered with hypertrophied epithe- lium ; and relieved by shaving off the morbid growth to the level of the healthy cornea.* Superficial Opacities.—“ There are some varieties,” says Mr. Bow- ;man, “ which ap])car to be on or near the very surface of the cornea, I and which it is probable m.aj' occupy the anterior elastic lamina. The very opake chalky-looking films which often follow the application of quicklime or new mortar to the eye, seem to be of this kind, and so, also, do those which have been supposed by some to be stainings of the surface of the corneal tissue by a deposit of the lead lotion in common use. Occasionally we have a superficial excoriation of the cornea—one can hardly call it an ulcer—which the epithelium limits with abrupt edges, thus favouring the .accumulation, on the depressed Op. cit. pp. 39, 122.