GRAVEL. 524 state of the urine, through which it is precipitated from the ammonia with which it is generally combined. When the crystals of this acid are examined under the microscope, they present various appear- ances, most of which, however, are modifications of the rhombic prism, as shown in the adjoining cut. The Uthate of ammonia is a very common flocu- lent sediment, varying in colour from nearly white to dark red or yellow. The urine from which it is deposited is generally acid ; clear when passed, but clouded as it cools; and this sediment may readily be distinguished by its dissolving when heated slightly. Lithate of ammonia, deeply tinged by pink or brick-dust colouring matter, forms the sediments observed in fever, gout, and chronic diseases of the liver. II. Oxalate of Lime is generally deposited from urine which is clear when passed, highly acid, and varying much in quantity and specific gravity. It is in the form of excessively minute cr\'stals, invisible except by the microscope. But its presence may be inferred with tolerable certainty, if the urine is excessively acid and irritating, though pale; and if, on standing for some hours in a tall ves- sel, it lets fall a very fine white sediment; in which under the microscope the crystals may be found. III. Phosphatic Deposits always indicate an alkalescent state of the urine, through which the phosphates of lime and of magnesia are precipi- tated ; but they do not of themselves, as has been most happily shown by Bence Jones, prove that phosphoric acid is in excess in the urine. The most common cause of alkalescence in the urine, is carbonate of ammonia, derived from urea, which is quickly decomposed under certain circumstances, and especially from the presence of mucus, or of a diseased state of the mucous membrane of the bladder. The urine may likewise be idkaline, from relative excess of potass or soda, especially at times when the stomach is busily employed in the work of digestion, and is full of acid. The varieties of phosphatic deposit, arc—1. the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, which appears in sparkling prismatic crystals on the surface of • 1. Crystals of uric acid; 2. Crj-stals of oxalate of lime; 3. The same dried ; 4. Dumb bell crystals of the same; 6. Triple phosphate. After Goldiug Bird.