215 DISEASES OF THE BONES. possibility of opening the synovial membrane, should alwaj^s be con- sidered, Exostoses of the clavicles of children almost always disappear of themselves.* SECTION II.—OF THE DISEASES DEPENDING ON ATROPHY OR DEGENERATION. I. Atrophy of the bones is marked by a diminution of their weight. Sometimes it is attended likewise by a decrease in bulk ; but some- times, whilst the outward bulk is nearly unaltered, the proper sub- stance is withdrawn, the cortex being reduced to a thin shell, and the cancelli to a few fine threads, with their interstices filled with fat. Atrophy may be caused by simple disuse and want of exercise ; by disease of an ad- jacent joint; by interruption to the supply of arterial blood: (thus after fracture with division of the medul- lary artery, the lower part of the tibia and femur, and upper part of the hu- merus may undergo atrophy); by that peculiar defect of nutrition which some- times aftects all the structures of a limb ; (vide p. 25, 206), by old age, and by the peculiar state of the system which accompanies rickets and mollities ossium. II. Rickets, or Rachitis, is a pe- culiar unhealthy condition of the sys- tem attended with atrophy, degenera- tion, and distortion of some, or many of the bones. They gradually soften, and become infiltrated with a serous or gelatinous fluid, “ which becomes organ- ized, and passes into the condition of a moderately firm elastic tissue with mi- nute cells dispersed through it. Ac- cordingly, at this period, the bone consists throughout of a sort of cartila- ginous tissue, which will bend without breaking, and through which a knife may be readily passed.” Moreover, “ besides the diminution of its earthy salts, there is also a change in the animal matter, so that the extract obtained from it by boiling * Vido Sir A. Cooper on Exostosis, in Cooper and Travers’s Surgical Essays ; Mayo’s Patliology, p. 11; Stanley on Diseases of the Bones, Bond. 1849; T. B. Curling on Atrophy of Bone, Mod. Chir. Trans, vol, xx.