408 DISEASES OP THE EAR. mastoid process ; and afterwards a succession of blisters, each the size of a shilling, or the tartar emetic ointment. If the membrana tympani looks opake, it may be brushed once a week with a solution of nitrate of silver. In fact, the remedies for deafness must be the same in kind ^ as would be used for a granular conjunctiva, or opacity of the cornea, onlj’’ varied and adapted as the ingenuity of the surgeon may suggest. By such means, if the case is of no very long standing, it will proba- bly be relieved, and may possibly be cured ; but it must be confessed that there is not much to be hoped for if the case has been of long duration. Mr. Wilde has found that the arnica mo?iiana, F. 190, is a good remedy for tinnitus after active inflammation has been subdued. III. Deafness is sometimes connected with a morbid stale of the throat and Eustachian tubes ; such as obstruction of the tubes by the enlarged tonsils of scrofulous subjects, or by the cicatrices following the ulcerated sore throat of syphilis or scarlatina ; or by thick mucus, or by granulations. Sometimes these tubes are extremely dilated. They may be known to be pervious if the shock of air can be heard against the membrana tympani, by means of the stethoscope applied to the mastoid process, whilst the patient closes his mouth and nostrils, and makes a strong expiration ; and they may be known to be clogged with mucus, when loud crackling or gurgling noises are heard by the patient (or by the surgeon with the stethoscope), when he expires strongl}' with the mouth and nose closed. If the membrana tympani is perforated, air may often be made to whistle through the aperture, and may be seen to escape with bubbles of mucus if the membrane be examined through the speculum whilst the patient is driving his breath through the Eustachian tubes. Treatment.—Chronic sore throat, or swelling of the tonsils, must be removed by stimulating and astringent gargles, or by swabbing the throat with a sponge dipped into a solution of nitrate of silver, as well as by the use of cod liver oil, bark, with iodide of potassium, mercurial alteratives, counter-irritants, and attention to the general health. In other respects the treatment should be the same as is detailed in the preceding paragraph. These are the cases in which it has been recom- mended to introduce catheters and bougies into the Eustachian tubes, and to inject warm water, or air, or medicated liquids or vapours into the cavity of the tympanum. But the author cannot recommend these operations for general adoption ; first, because the)' are painful, and because he believes they very seldom, if ever, do any real good ; and secondly, because they are dangerous, and have proved fatal in more instances than one. When it is considered that in some cases the bony partition between the Eustachian tube and the carotid canal is almost entirely absorbed ; and that in others there is but the thinnest shell of bone, or perhaps only a mere membrane between the tympanic cavity, or mastoid cells, and the cavity of the cranium, or jugular fossa, (all of which morbid changes the author has seen in Mr. Toj'nbce’s collection), it will bo very readily understood how the pokings in the dark at the Eustachian tube, and forcible injections of the tympanum