EXCISION OF JOINTS. 595 milking n longitudinal incision over the bone on the side opposite the vessels, and sawing off a sufficient portion of it, removing at the same time anj' diseased portion of the cicatrix. But if the projection is con- siderable, the entire end of the stump must be amputated. 5. Neuralgia of the stump is another very untoward event. It sometimes arises, because the truncated extremities of the nerves (which after amputation always swell and become bulbous) adhere to the cicatrix, so as to be subject to constant compression and tension. Sometimes, however, it is entirely independent of any morbid state of the extremities of the nerves, but arises from some irritation in their course, or from some irritation, centric or excentric, of the spinal cord. Sometimes, again, no local cause whatever is detectable; and the pain is evidently connected with an hysterical state of the system. In any case the symptoms are extreme irritability and tenderness, paroxysms of violent neuralgic pain, and spasms and twitchings of the muscles, which not unfrequently retract, and cause the bone to protrude, and the stump to become conical. Treatment.— I. Gentle friction with strong mercurial ointment, to which a little powdered camphor, or extract of belladonna may be advantageously added; or Scott’s ointment, F. 160, spread on lint, and worn as a pl.aster, or the emplastrum saponis or plumbi, combined with a little belladonna or opium, together with change of air, and the administration of remedies calculated to restore the strength, maintain the secretions, and allay irritability, such as s.arsaparilla with hen- bane ; steel in various forms; and aloetic pills with galbanum, some- times suffice to remove the extreme sensitiveness of these as well as of other irregular cicatrices. 2. If the pain and tenderness are re- ferred to one or two nerves only, their bulbous extremities should be cut down upon and removed. S. If, however, the whole surface of the stump is implicated, or if the bone protrudes, a second amputa- tion should be resorted to. But in the case of young hysterical women, the propriety of a second operation is extremely doubtful. The cases on record in which this practice was adopted, present no satisfactory results; the pain was removed for a time, but returned when the wound healed. It can therefore be justifiable only when performed at the patient’s urgent request, after every local and gene- ral remedy likely to be of service has been tried perseveringly, but in vain. In certain cases of chronic disease, or gun-shot injuries, or other violent cnishing fractures of joints, an attempt may be made to save the limb, by cutting out the joint, instead of performing amputation. CHAPTER V. CO EXCISION OF JOINTS.