AMPUTATION OF THE FOOT. 591 6. Amputation of the meiacaifal hone of the Utile finger, at the joint between it and the uncifonn, is performed thus; The flesh and the integuments being grasped, and drawn away from the ulnar side of the bone, a bistoury is passed perpendicularly through them close to the joint, and made to cut its way downwards to a little beyond the articulation with the first phalanx. The skin of the hand being next strongh' drawn towards the thumb side, the bistoury is placed on the other side of the bone (without again piercing the skin'), and carried along so as to divide everything down to the digital commissure. Then the ligaments of the joint are to be divided, first on the inner, and next on the dorsal aspect. It is, however, a much better plan, if it can be effected, to cut through the bone by means of the saw or bone- nippers, than to remove it at the articulation. 7. Amputation of the head of a metacarpal bone is effected bj’’ making an incision on each side of it (as in amputation of the fingers at the joint, but ex- tending rather higher up), and then cutting through the bone with the cutting- forceps. Mr. Fergusson re- commends the head of the metacarpal bone to be re- moved in almost every in- stance where the entire finger is abstracted, because the deformity is much less. But the part need not be removed high enough up to divide the transverse liga- ment. Care must be taken during the cure, to keep the fingers parallel, and prevent them from cro.ssing at their tips. If a part or the whole of the shaft of one of these bones is to be removed also, an incision should be made along its dorsum, to the point where the two fornier ones meet; and then the flesh being dis- sected away on either side, the bone may bo cut through or disarticu- lated according to circumstances. X. A.mputations of the Foot.—1. Amputation of the toes at any of their joints is performed in precisely the same manner ns am- putation of the fingers. In removing a single toe from its metatarsal bone, the surgeon should take cai'e first of all to ascertain the c.xact situation of the joint, which lies rather deeply. Moreover he should not remove the head of the metatarsal bone, as he may of the metacar- pal, becau.se it is important to preserve the entire breadth of the foot. 2. Amputation of all the toes at their metatarsal joints—an opera- tion which may be requisite in cases of frost-bite—is performed by