ULCERATION OP CARTILAGE. 267 These changes in the cartilage may either be or be not attended with a tendency to disorganization of the other textures of the joint. If there be no such tendency in the other textures (as in the senile ulceration), the mere changes in the cartilage may give rise to no symptoms whatever. If there be such a tendency (as in the ulcera- tion which accompanies mismanaged synovitis, and that destructive disease commonly known as white swelling), it is doubtful whether the symptoms do not in reality arise from the accompanying disease of the bone, or of the synovial membrane. I. Senile Ulceration.—The cartilage of the joints of elderly persons is sometimes ulcerated so as even to denude the bone. This state may exist without producing any symptoms, except, perhaps, a slight grating. Sometimes before its disappearance the cartilage is converted into a soft fibrous or villous structure ; and its place is afterwards supplied b}' a crust of that extremely hard and dense bone, which is commonly known under the name of porcellaneous, or ivory deposit.* II. Ulceration of cartilage is the climax of all severe affections of the structures entering into the composition of joints. It is a very common consequence of inflammation of the synovial membrane, acute or chronic, and is a constant consequence of caries of the joint-ends of the bones. It seems highly proliable that it may be effected, as Mr. Key pointed out,+ by the instrumentality of those liiglily vascular fungous granulations which project like fringes from the synovial n.em- brane over the cartilage after severe acute or chronic inflammation. It seems equally probable that absorption of the cartilage—begin- ning on that surface which is attached to the bone—may be caused by the red fungous granulations which arise in the cancelli of the joint-ends of the bones when carious. We have before spoken of that rapid ulceration of cartilage which is a consequence of unchecked synovitis ; but now we have to treat of that very common disease chronic ulcerution. III. Chronic Ulceration of cartilage commonly affects persons of bad, scrofulous constitutions, between the age of puberty and thirty- five ; and is usually ascribed to cold, or to neglected injury. Symptoms.—For the first few weeks (or perhaps months) of this disease, the patient complains only of slight occasional rheumatic pains, perhaps flying about and affecting several joints, but at length settling decidedly in one. After a time, the pain increases in severity, espe- cially at night, and it is generidly referred to one small spot, deep in * This change is said to occur in the astragali of old draught horses, without occasioning any incouvenieuce to the animals. Hichet, (luoted in Hrit. and For. Med. Kev., .Ian. 18-1(5. According to Mr. (juokett, the porcellaneous substance con.sists of an extremely dense bone, with its Ilaversian canals lilled up by bone-earth. Quoted in Canton, op. cit. t Key, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. .wiii. and xix; Goodsir, AmU. and Path. Obs. Edinburgh, 1845, and Hainey on fatty degeneration of cartilage, cpioted in South’s Cheliu.s, vol. i. p. 274 ; Hodfern on Anormal Nutrition in Human Arti- cular Cartilages, Edinburgh, 1850.