ANEURISM. 311 debility of the capillary system, and a want of vigour in the tegu- mentaiy circulation. Compression is contra-indicated in those cases of aneurism which increase in size with rapidity, for there is always a danger of the tumour bursting, or of the limb below becoming mortified. In such cases the ligature must be applied. And if, during the course of treatment by pressure, such circumstances should suddenly arise, it must be at once remitted, and immediate recourse had to ligature of the vessel above. It may be well to state that the regulation of the instrument em- ployed should not be confided too much to the patient himself, unless he be very intelligent, and perfectly acquainted with the mechanism and precise object of the process; for it has happened that, from anxiety for a speedy cure, and with the idea that the greater the pressime, the sooner this will be effected, the instrument has been screwed up so tightly that serious sloughing of the skin beneath the pads has been produced. The statistics of this mode of treatment, although limited at pre- sent, tend to show that it is less dangerous than the ligature ; and much of the prejudice which existed against it has gradually given way, although it is not yet universally employed.* The pressure, as before said, need never be very severe ; nor is it necessarj’’ entirely to stop the circulation ; but if applied with sufficient force to render the current very feeble, the aneurism is, after a time, found to have lost its pulsation, and to have become solid. This happy event may occur in three or six days, or perhaps may require as many weeks; after which the tumour is slowly absorbed, and the limb may be brought into use again. In cases which do not admit of pressure being applied on the artery leading to the aneurism, it may be tried cautiously on the tumour itself, or upon the artery below it. Cases are recorded which give room for hope from such a measure.+ 2ndly, Hy Ligature.—In cases in which the above plan is inapplicable or unavailing, the artery must be tied between the aneurism and the heart. The operation should be performed neither too near the aneurism, so as to place the ligature on a portion of the vessel that is diseased ; nor too far from it, lest the circulation through it be kept up by means of collateral branches. After the operation, the tempera- ture of the limb falls two or three degrees ; but in a few hours it rises rather higher than that of the opposite limb, because the blood is forced to circulate through the superficial capillaries. Subsequently it sinks again rather below the natural standard. Therefore the patient ♦ For a summary of objections see Mr. Symo’s Contritmtions. t Vide cases by Ur. O. B. Bellingliam, Dublin Journal, May 1845 ; Messrs. Greatrex and Robinson, M. C. T. vol. xxviii.; and a notice of cases by Liston, Robert Storks, Dartnell, and otlier surgeons, in Ranking’s Abstract, vol. iii.; and a case of axillary aneurism cured by compression on the distal side, l>y Dr. M. Goldsmith, of America, iO.