108 SCIRRHUS. the natural outlets of the body, or to get rid of a bleeding, offensive mass, and so relieve the patient temporarily from pain. Extirpation, if determined on, maybe effected (1) by the hnife; and in so doing care ought to be taken to remove every particle that appears unsound; (2) by caustic, which may be resorted to in flat cancerous affections of the skin ;* (3) by ligature. It must be added that, in the judgment of competent authorities, an operation is more likely to be successful after a course of proper treat- ment, than if perfonned at the earliest period ; and that a course of alterative remedies is advisable after the operation, in order to dimi- nish the chances of a return. Besides operative measures, the treatment may consist in attempts, 1st, by internal and external remedies to procure the absorption of the tumour; or, 2ndly, if it is in the ulcerated state, to alleviate the patient’s sufferings. Internal Remedies.—The preparations of iron may be given with benefit when the lips are pale, the pulse weak, and the patient low and emaciated. The umrnonio-chloride in pills, in doses of gr. ii. ter die, was a favourite medicine of the late Mr. Cline, and often effected the dispersion of chronic indolent tumours. JSlercurg.—Sir A. Cooper recommended five grains of Plummer’s pill at bedtime, and a draught of carbonate of ammonia with a vegetable bitter, twice in the day, F. 18fi. Mercury is also often highl}' useful in small nightly doses, with narcotics F. 63; but given in large quantities certainlj' hastens the progress of the disease. N^arcotics, especially conium, have been boasted as specifics; but their utility is doubtful, except as adjuvants to tonics, and to allay the agon}^ of open cancer. Iodine, in various fonns (F. 88, &c.), and arse7iic, being most powerful tonics and alteratives, deserve a fair and protracted trial; and especially the iodide of arsenic, in doses of gr. y'jj bis die in a pill, with ext. conii, to be taken two hours after meals. F. .0, 14, 15, &c., maybe of service in some cases. Change of air (especially to countries comparatively exempt from cancer, such as Algiers and Egypt), freedom from anxiety, a diet that will support the strength without heating the system, wine in moderation, if the patient is weak and accustomed to it, are other measures that we need not do more than allude to. Vegetable diet, or low diet, approaching starvation, has been recommended. But by we.ikening the system, and increasing the irritability of the heart and nervous system, it can- not fail to be mischievous. Local Remedies.—Leeches.—If the patient is young and plethoric, —and the fits of pain are frequent, and accompanied with heat and throbbing, the diet should be reduced, the bowels be freely opened, and leeches be applied. In fact, occasional leeching is almost always of service in the early stages of any form of malignant disease. lodme paint, or the ointment of iodide of lead, F. 89, which is much less irritating than the common ointment, may be smeared on the * Vide Lupus, in Part IV. Chap. ii.