INDOLENT ULCER. 76 when the skin is irritable, and eczematous^ or covered with scales of cuticle which readily peel off. In such cases plasters cannot be borne. Arsenic may be serviceable, F. 97. Ointments agree better with the indolent than with the other varieties of ulcer, because they do no harm if rancid. The ung. hyd. nitric, oxid. is very useful ;—and the ung. hydrarg. nitrat. dibit, is praised for its efficacy in reducing thick callous edges. Particular Plans of Treatment.—From the middle of the last century, when the surgeons of St. Thomas’s Hospital were in treaty with an apothecary in Half Moon Street, for the purchase of an infallible method of healing ulcers, or rather from time immemorial to the present, the multitude of plans recommended for the treat- ment of ulcers, shows but too truly that they all often fail. Baynton’s plan consisted in the application of strips of plaster com- pletely round the limb, from an inch below to an inch above the ulcers.* Mr. Sj'me covers an indolent ulcer with a blister, which he finds an excellent method of reducing callous edges and oedematous granulations, and in exciting the vitality of the part. Mr. Stafford recommends old deep indolent ulcers to be treated bj' filling up their cavity with a mixture of one part of Venice turpentine, and four of bees’ wax, melted, and poured in warm. M. Malgaigne is said to use in some cases a warm iron held at a little distance from the ulcer, so as to dry its surface.^ The same object is sometimes at- tained by the application of heated air. Mr. John Scott devised a plan, which has been' revived by Mr. Critchett, and by which a very effectual support is given to the vessels of the affected limb, by strips of mild adhesive plaster, applied so as to encase the limb from the foot upwards. This is likely to be of great service when all the veins are dilated, and the cellular tissue spongy. Mr. G. H. Walker uses with success a fumigation of the vapours of iodine and sulphur, as recom- mended by Dr. Burgess. The student may comfort himself by noticing that the essence of every successful plan is, a combination of some mild stimulant to the ulcer, and of efficient support to the weakened vessels of the leg. Whoever attends to these points, and to the constitution likewise, will soon learn how to do all that surgery can accomplish. During any febrile disturbance of the system, the local applications must be mild. Should old ulcers be healed 9—The propriety of healing old ulcers will sometimes be made a question, inasmuch as certain diseases, and especially apoplexy, palsy, and mania, are apt to supervene on their suppression. Sir E. Home has specified the following cases in which a cure ought not to be attempted. 1. If the ulcer be “evidently affected with the gout, having regular attacks of pain, returning at • Baynton, T., Descriptive Account of a New Method of Treating Old Ulcers of the Legs. Bristol, 1797. t Burnes, Lancet for 1847, vol. i.; Critchett, James Arnott, Chapman and others in Lancet for 1848 and 1849.