54 SUPPURATION. tiallj'' a morbid process ; yet as it may accompany other processes which tend to a beneficial end (such as granulation), so it is customary to speak of it when accompanying such beneficial processes, as healthy, and to describe the product as healthy pus. Moreover, though suppu- ration bo a morbid process, it often takes the place of other processes infinitely more morbid. Thus after a very severe lacerated wound, when the patient has passed through several days of fearful constitu- tional excitement ; or after sloughing, or rapid phagedaenic ulceration, nothing delights the surgeon more than the sight of healthy pus, because he knows that it announces at least an attempt at reparation, and the cessation of violent febrile excitement. 2ndly. The formation of abscesses often seems to serve as a means for eliminating some noxious matter from the blood. 3rdly. Suppuration affords a me- chanical means of removing foreign substances impacted in the soft parts. Lastly, if too profuse, it may exhaust the vital powers, and bring on hectic fever. Properties of heauthy Pus.—Pus is a yellowish white, opake fluid, of the consistence of cream : free from smell, neither acid nor alkaline, said to have a sweetish, mawkish taste, insoluble in water, although freely miscible with it, and very slow to putrefy. Like many other animal fluids, it consists of a thin serum, holding a vast number of globules in suspension, from which it derives its colour and opacity. Chemieal Analysis.—The most recent analyses, especially those of Bonnet of Lyons, Gueterbock, and Davy,* show that pus contains water (HOT per cent.), fat soluble in alcohol (1'6), fat and osmazome soluble in cold alcohol (4’3), and albumen and the matter of the glo- bules, soluble in neither hot nor cold alcohol (7'4). The substance of which the globules are composed has received the name of pyine ; but it seems to differ very little from fibrine. Pus also contains about 0'8 per cent, of salts ; chiefly common salt, and muriate of ammonia. Fus Globules.—When these are examined under the microscope, they are found to be opake spherical globules apparently granulated like mulberries, but in reality smooth, as may be known by exam- ining their circumference. They measure from 1-5000th to l-2000th‘ of an inch in diameter; some even are much larger ; especially if tliey proceed from a surface that is actively inflamed. They may be shown to consist of an envelope, or cell-membrane, containing nuclei, oil globules, and minute granules. If acetic acid be added, it brings clearly into view two, three, or four nuclei ; and renders the other parts transp.arent, or so invisible that they seem to have dissolved. They are not really dissolved, however, because the nuclei retain their adhesion to each other; and because if liq. potasste be added, tlie original appearance is restored. Those central nuclei furnish the best means of distinguishing pus from other similar globules. If kept • Vide Mayo, Mod. Gaz., Oct. 19th, 1839 ; Vogel, iiber Eiter und Eitcrung, p. 35; Davy, op. cit. vol. ii. p. 1G8 ; Bonnet, Med. Gaz. vol. .xxi.; Gueterbock do Pure et Granulatione, Berol, 1837.