149 SEPTIC POISONS. and then a small roll of plaster be put under it, round which it should be carefully wound, day after day, till it is extracted. Ex- treme cleanliness, and the application of asafmtida, are said to act as preventives.* The Chigoe {Pulex penetrans)^ is a minute insect, abundant in the vVest Indies, which penetrates the skin of the feet, and forms a little cyst beneath it, in which it deposits its eggs. When the cyst is fully formed, it may be of the size of a pea, and is of a bluish colour. The sj-mptoms are a violent itching. The treatment consists in ex- tracting the bag containing the creature and its eggs, which operation is dexterously enough performed by the negroes with the point of a needle, and the cavity left is filled with tobacco ashes. If the bag is broken in the extraction, so that the young chigoes escape, violent inflammation is the result. CHAPTER IX. OF THE POISONS CONTAINED IN DEAD HUMAN BODIES, AND OF DISSECTION WOUNDS. During the decomposition of animal matter, a number of complex substances are liable to be formed, which have a most deleterious effect if introduced into the blood of living animals. Tliese maj' be called septic poisons ; and they appear, according to Liebig, to produce in the living body the same state of decomposition that they are un- dergoing tliemselves. These poisons are peculiarl}' interesting to sur- geons, since they are exposed to their influence in the dissecting- room and in performing post mortem examinations. One of the most common of these poisons is a gaseous emanation of a faint, sickly, and indescribably nauseous odour. It is most com- monly observed to proceed from the bodies of those who have died of fever, and is so abominably nauseous, and so sedative in its effects, that it often causes sickness and faintness in those who would not be affected by the most advanced putrefaction. A second class of poisons consists of the compounds of hydrogen, hydrosulphuric acid, carburetted and phosphuretted hydrogen, carbonic acid and ammonia. These gases are abundantly evolved during pu- trefaction, but although noxious in themselves, can liardly be called septic, unless they carry with them some small portion of decomjiosing, but not (piite decomposed, animal matter. The inhalation of either of these varieties of poisonous fumes is liable to induce sickness, dyspepsia, diarrheea, nauseous taste in the • See a paper by M. Maisonneuve in the Lancet for 1845, vol. i. p. 152.