ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE. 268 the joint, and is compared by the patient to tlie pmawing of an animal. Moreover, it is usually accompanied by an aching of some other part of the limb; thus, when the hip or elbow is affected, there is an aching of the knee or wrist; but it is important to notice, that both the pain in the affected joint, and the sjunpathetic remote pain, are always aggravated by motion of the joint, and bj^ pressure of the articular surfaces against each other. As the disease proceeds, the suffering becomes most excruciating, and is attended with painful s]xisms arid starting of the limb during sleep; so that the patient’s rest is broken, his spirits exhausted, and his appetite and general health rapidly impaired. At first the pain is unaccompanied with any swelling; in fact, this symptom never appears in less than four or five weeks, and often not for as many months; and when it does appear, it is slight; and as it depends on an infiltration of the tissues around the joint, and not on effusion into it, the shape of the joint is unaltered. Terminations.—In fortunate cases, that are subjected to judicious treatment at an early stage, the ulceration maj' be arrested, and the diseased surfaces will throw out lymph and heal; or ver}-^ probably the lymph effused by two opposite ulcerated surfaces will unite, and anchylosis will be produced. But, in unfavourable cases, the ulceia- tion proceeds and lays bare the bone, which becomes carious, and can be heard to grate on the least motion ; suppuration occurs into the joint, and numerous tortuous abscesses form around it, so that the sur- rounding soft parts are disorganized; the ligaments are destroyed, so that the flexor muscles, which have long kept the joint immove- ably bent, at last dislocate it; if the knee is affected, for instance, the head of the tibia is drawn backwards into the ham; and at last the patient, unless amputation is performed, dies exhausted with hectic. The prognosis, in the first stage, that is, before swelling has oc- curred, may be favourable; but after swelling has existed for some time, the patient will be fortunate in recovering with anchylosis ; and after suppuration, he will (especially if an adult) be almost certainly compelled to suffer amputation. Treatment.—The first and the most indispensable measure is perfect rest; which must be insured by confining the joint with a starched bandage (not too tight) or leather splint. The splint or bandage should have apertures in it to allow the application of counter-irritants. 2. Occasional lecchings, or small cuppings, in the early stages, when the pain is severe. But loss of blood is merely a palliative of acci- dental fits of inflammation, and must not be carried too far. 3. Counter-irritation either by a seton, or caustic issue, or the actual cautery. If the knee is affected, an issue may be established on each side of the head of the tibia. Sir B. Brodie recommends, in these cases, that the issue should bo kept open by rubbing the sore occa- sionally with caustic potass, or the sulphate of copper, rather than by peas. The actual cautery is exceedingly efficacious, and not half so painful in reality as might be imagined, and the patient may be ren-