INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 4G1 possible. The incision should he made to diverge a little so as not to cut through the umbilicus ; and if on examining the tumour it is found either to be of a different nature from what was anticipated, or to have contracted excessively numerous and wide adhesions, it is better to close the wound quietly, without attempting to extirpate it. In order to bring the sides of the abdomen evenly together, a number of lines may be marked across the linea alba with nitrate of silver before the operation. The second mode of operating is by means of an incision through the linea alba, below the umbilicus, of from two to four inches in length. As soon as the ovarian cyst is exposed, it is to be punctured, and the edges of the puncture being seized with a hook or forceps, the whole of the cyst is to be dragged out of the wound, as it gradually collapses on the fluid escaping ; then the pedicle of the cyst having been transfixed with a needle armed with a strong ligature, is to be tied tightly and cut off. Whilst the cyst is protruding, an as- sistant should keep his hands on the margins of the wound, to prevent any escape of the bowels. An estimate may be formed whether the tumour consists of one cyst or many, by the quantity of fluid which escapes when the puncture is made ; and if a second cyst is discover- ed, it may be punctured and dragged out as well. This operation was suggested many years ago, although never performed, by Dr. W. Hun- ter. It was revived in 1838 by Mr. Jeaffreson, and has since been adopted by Mr. B. Phillips, Dr. F. Bird, Mr. Lane, and other opera- tors. It may be remarked that the temperature of the apartment in which any such operation is performed, ought to be raised to 70°.* III. Violent Blows on the Abdomen from obtuse substances, the passage of cartwheels, spent shot, and so forth, may produce various results. 1. They may cause severe concussion and collapse, which may either speedily prove fatal, or may pass off without further ill consequences, or may be succeeded by inflammation, 2. The}' may produce laceration of the bowels, or of the solid viscera ; with effusion of blood or of their secretions into the peri- tonfeal cavity. This may be suspected if the patient complains of excruciating pain radiating over the whole belly ; if the features are pinched, the belly soon swells, and the pulse is very small and tremulous. Treatment.—The patient must be suffered to lie quietly during the stage of collapse, without any officious administration of stimulants: • Vide Lizars on the Extirpation of Diseased Ovaria, Edinburgh, 1825 ; account of Dr. Clay’s operations in Hraitliwaite’s Retrospect, vol. vii.; and of two successful operations by Mr. Walne, bond. Med. Gaz., 23rd Dec. 1842, and 7th July, 1843 ; Je.alfreson, Lancet, 7th Januarj’, 1839 ; King, Lancet, 21st Januaiy, 1837; West, Lancet, 25th November, 1837; also Med. Gaz., November 24th, 1838 ; and case by Mr. R. Phillips, Mod. Gaz., October 10th, 1840 ; also B. Pliillips, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvii. For further infonnation, refer to the works and papers of I. B. Brown, Tilt, Clay of Manchester, B. Phillips, Lane, Frederick Bird, and Walne.