153 DISSECTION WOUNDS. sons which, duly considered, place the existence and agency of a distinct morbid poison beyond all doubt. 1. It is a well-established fact, that many individuals are frequently inoculated from one subject. This happened in the well-known cases of Professor Dease and Mr. Egan; and numerous other instances of it are on record.* 2. The disease most frequently arises from jres/t subjects. Mr. Adam, in the excellent paper which we have before quoted from, has collected forty cases;—and in only two or three out of the whole number did the disease arise from a putrid subject. The most dan- gerous poison seems to be destroyed by putrefaction ; and the disease caused b}' inoculation with putrid matter is in general mild, and consists of mere intlammation of the lymphatics,—although there are exceptions. 3. The disease of u-ldch a subject died has a manifest influence on the frequency of ill eft'ects from dissecting it. In two-thirds of Mr. Adam’s cases the disease afl'ected a serous membrane:—and the most deadly virus of all is contained in the bodies of women who die of puerperal fever. 4. The disease we have been describing begins with symptoms of constitutional disorder; and, in fact, it may be unattended luiih any local disease u-hatever. Consequently it cannot be said to arise from local disease, when there is none. Lastly', it may be induced by' immersion of the fingers in the fluids of a dead body, although the fingers may be quite free from wound or abrasion. A remarkable instance of this is related in the third volume of Tyrrel’s edition of Sir A. Cooper’s Lectures."t- TnE.4T.MENT.— The indications clearly'are, to endeavour to elimi- nate the poison from the blood ; to support the nervous system in its state of depression and to relieve pain and tension, and promote the discharge of pus or sloughs. As soon, therefore, as the first symptoms of indisposition make their appearance after a wound received during dissection, it will be ad- visable that the patient should take an emetic, F. 99, have his feet immersed in hot water, and betake himself to a warm bed. After the vomiting has ceased, he should take ten grains of calomel, followed in two hours by' an aperient draught of (F. 33, &c.). These remedies should be repeated, and be aided with turpentine encmata until the bowels are fully unloaded, bearing in mind the experiments of Gaspard and Cruveilhier, in which dogs, into whose veins putrid pus had been * Copland’s Diet. p. 304 ; also Nimneloy on Ery.sipclas. t Travers gives two analogous cases. A Mrs. Clifton died of diffused cellular inflainination following a prick. Two of her attendants became ill from the contact and eflluvium of the di>charge, although neither had any wound through which a poison might be inoculated. One of them suffered from acute hcscial inflammation ol the arm ; the other from low fever, and absce.ss in the axilla. The latter was engaged in unfolding some sheet.s from which a most noisome smell proceeded, when she was all at once seized with sickne.ss and faintness, and excruciating pain in the axilla.—Constitutional Irrilutlon, ]>. 373, 3rd. ed.