121 GUK-SHOT WOUNDS. means the case, and says that in general the pain is severe;—that it is a dead, heavy, painful blow;—although still the injury may not be felt at the moment, if it is inflicted while the patient's whole attention is absorbed by other objects. (i) Most authors state that gun-shot wounds are attended with very little Icenwrrhage, unless some considerable blood-vessel has been divided. But Mr. Guthrie asserts that this is equallj' erroneous; that there is in general considerable hmmorrhage of an arterial colour; but that a wound of a large artery is only to be feared if the blood continue to be poured out in great quantity and per saltum, in spite of pressure. (c) The constitutional disturbance accompanying these wounds is severe and peculiar. The surface is pale, and bedewed with cold perspiration;—every limb trembles; the patient cannot stand with- out support; and suft'ers from vomiting, faintness, and peculiar alarm, anxiety, and confusion of the mind. The severity of these symptoms will, in general, be determined by the extent of the injury, the im- portance of the part wounded, and the habitual fortitude of the suf- ferer ; but the anecdote related in the subjoined note will show that they may be most severe under circumstances the most trivial.* Effects of B.vlls.—A ball in penetrating or perforating the animal body bruises and pushes aside the tissues in its course, making a conical passage, of which the apex is situated at the entrance, and the base at the exit of the projectile. This arises from the fact that the oscillations of a ball are in the inverse ratio of its velocity; so that the greater the resistance opposed, tlie greater the mischief; hence it appears that if a ball meets with soft parts only, the havoc will be less, and the track of the wound narrower, in proportion to its velocity .j- CounsE OF B.-iLi,s.—A remarkable circumstance connected with gun-shot wounds is the facility with which the ball may be diverted from its course by the slightest obstacle. Any trifling obliquity of surface, or difference of density in the parts which it traverses, may cause it to take a most circuitous route. Thus a ball may enter on * During a rapid advance of part of the British anny in Portugal, “one of the skinnishens suddenly came upon his adversaiy, witli only a .small bank be- tween them ; both parties presented, the muzzles of the pieces nearly touching; both fired, and both fell. The British soldier, after a minute or two, think- ing himself hit, but still finding hiimself capable of moving, got up, and found his adversary dead on the other side of the bank. I saw him,” says Mr. Guthrie, “ immediatciy afterwards in considerable alarm, being conscious of a blow somewhere, but which, after a diligent search, ])roved to be only a graze from a ball on the ulnar side of the arm ; yet the certainty he was in of being killed, from the respective positions of the parties, had such an ell'ect upon him at the moment of receiving this trifling injury, as nearly to dei>rivo him for a short time of his powers of volition; whereas, had the wound been received from a conceale<l or distant enemy, it would in all probability have been little noticed.”—Guthrie, op. cit. p. 11. t Baudens, Clinical I.ecture on the wounded of the I'rench Revolution of February, 1848; Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 330.