DISEASES OF THE IRI* 376 and general debility, and is improved as the health improves. If the retina is sound, which will be known by the perception of light, and by vision being improved by looking through a small romid aperture in a piece of blackened card, concave glasses are often of service. Irritating applications to the eye have been recommended, but their utility is doubtful. One case is recorded which was said to be cured by ergot of rye, in scruple doses four times a day.* V. Tumours or Cysts growing upon the iris must bo removed if they become large, so as to interfere with vision, or to inflame the eye by their pressure. A section of the cornea must be made as for e.vtraction of cataract, and the diseased part of the iris, having been drawn out, must be snipped off. VI. Artificial Pupil.—There are certain cases in which it becomes expedient to alter the shape and position of the pupil, or to form a new pupillary aperture in the iris.i- 1st. In cases of conical cornea, or of permanent opacity of the centre of the cornea, it is advisable to bring the pupil opposite to a transparent part of it; and Mr. Tyrrell observes, that if the position and extent of the opacity do not forbid, the pupil should always be brought downwards and outwards. This is done in the following way; a broad needle is carefully passed through the cornea, close to its junction with the sclerotic. Through the puncture thus made, Tyrrell’s hook, a fine blunt hook with a long bend, is passed into the anterior chamber, with the bent limb forwards. As soon as it has reached the pupillary margin, the hook is turned backwards so as to catch it; and then the hook is withdrawn through the comeal punc- ture, bringing out the iris with it, and of course rendering the pupil oblong. The piece of the iris that protrudes should be snipped off with a fine pair of scissors. 2ndly. In cases where the pupil has been nearly or altogether lost in consequence of prolapse of the iris through wounds or ulcers, or slough of the cornea ; or where vision is obscured by opacity of the cornea, with adhesion of the iris to it; or by partial staphyloma of the cornea, with adhesion of the iris; a new pupillary aperture may be made; or the old pupil (if not quite abolished) may be extended opposite to that part of the cornea which remains transparent, by the same operation which we have just described. But if the old pupil is quite lost, it will be necessary to make a little puncture of the iris with the needle which is employed to puncture the cornea; into which puncture of the iris the hook is to be inserted. Supposing, moreover, that after either of these operations the new pupil degene- rates into a mere slit, this slit must be enlarged, by another operation • L'Exp6rience, Sept. 1839. t This operation, when performed by means of an incision in tlie iris, is technically called corctomia; when performed by the excision of a little piece, it is called corcclomia; and when efi'ected by detaching the iris from the ciliary ligament, it is called coredialysis. (Kdpij, pu^nlla.) The last operation is too violent.