414 CANCRIJM oms. / before the glands are implicated—but it is justifiable at any stage—in order to avoid for a time the horri- ble pain and fetor of the ulcerative process. It has been very clearly shown by Mr. Earle, that anj'ulcers, / if subjected to perpetual irritation, (and especially ulcers near the out- / lets of the body,) may assume a malignant appearance, which ceases on the removal of the source of irritation. When therefore there are foul ulcers on the lips, cheeks, or tongue, the teeth should be well examined in order to remove any roughness, or collection of tartar, .and the secretions of the skin, bowels, and kidneys should be care- fully attended to. VI. Cancrum Oris—{Phagedcena oris, gangrenous erosion of the cheek) is a phagedseno-gangrenous affection of the lips and checks, occurring almost exclusively amongst the ill-fed squalid children of large towns. It appears to be a disease of debility, and to be induced by want of proper food and of fresh air, and by neglect of cleanli- ness. Like other disorders of a similar character, it is very liable to follow the measles or scarlatina, or any other severe and weakening illness. Symptoms.—In the instances which have fallen under the author’s observation, it has commenced as a shallow ulcer on the lip, or inside of the cheek ; with a peculiar dirty gray or ash-coloured surface, and black edges. Sometimes it is said to commence until an exudation of a pale yellow fibrinous matter, like that which is exuded in croup and some forms of putrid sore throat. At the same time the face is swollen, the breath exceedingly fetid, and there is a dribbling of fetid saliva mixed with blood. If the disease proceeds, the ulcer becomes gangrenous, and destroys the cheek and gums ; the teeth drop out, typhoid symptoms supervene, and the patient dies exhausted. The swelling which accompanies this disease, shows nothing like .active or healthy inflammation. It is moderately firm, or what may be called semi-ojdematous, and is either pale, or else of faint pink colour. In the most rapid form of the disease, it commences at once as a bl.ick spot of gangrene, which slowly spreads, and is not accompanied b)' any inflammation whatever ; all the parts around being quite pale and w.ax-like. The constitutional symptoms are at first those of weakness, and disorder of the stomach .and bowels, and afterwards the rapid feeble pulse, and stupor of typhus. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this affection is of some importance, bec.ause when a child has died of it, the parents, through ignorance or malice, are liable to bring the surgeon into trouble, by .accusing him of having caused death through profuse mercurial siilivation. The chief points of distinction are, that in this disease the ulceration or gan-