CATARACT. 383 protracted inflammation or amaurosis; and that the lens may rise again to its old place, and obstruct vision as before. The preparation of the patient, his position during the operation, as well as that of the sur- geon, and the duties of the assistant, are the same as required for the operation of extraction. The pupil should be dilated with belladonna. There are four ways of operating. Operations.— 1. A couching-needle is passed through the outer side of the sclerotic, the y\jth of an inch behind the margin of the cornea, and in the transverse axis of the globe. It is carried up- wards and forwards behind the iris, and in front of the cataract, and then is steadily and gently pressed upon it till it has carried it down- wards and backwards out of sight. It should be held for a few moments to fix it, then should be lifted up, and if the lens rise also, it must be again depressed fur a short time. Then the needle is with- drawn. 2. According to Scarpa's plan, a curved needle is used instead of a straight one. It is to be introduced with its convexit}' forwards, and the lens is to be depressed in the manner just described—but be- fore withdrawing the needle, its point is to be turned forwards, and made to lacerate the capsule freely. 3. King's Operation.—A curved needle is passed perpendicularly through the sclerotic, as low down as possible; and if the patient’s eye is directed upwards and inwards, it can be made to enter almost perpendicularly below the centre of the cornea, and one-eighth of an inch from its margin. It should then be passed onwards with a slight rotatory motion to tlie pupil, having its convexity forwards, i. e., towards the back of the iris. When it reaches the pupil, these rotations are to be increased, so that the point may cut the anterior capsule into small pieces. The needle is then slowly withdrawn, and the lens follows it, so that it is left at the bottom of the eye close to the puncture made by the needle. If the lens should not imme- diately follow the needle downwards, the latter is to be stuck into it again.* 4. The method of reclination, which consists of turning the lens backwards from an upright to an horizontal position, is not much in vogue, although some surgeons recline the cataract before they de- press it. III. The Operation for producing Absorption is very easily performed, and excites very little inflammation. It requires to be repeated several times, and the cure occupies several weeks or months. It is well adapted for soft cataracts, especially the congenital, but very seldom if ever answers with the hard cataracts of old people. Operations.—1. The needle maybe introduced behind the iris in the same manner as for depression. Then the anterior layer of the capsule is to bo freely divided, and the needle, having been passed once or twice through the substance of the lens, is to be withdrawn. • Load. Med. Gaz. vol. xxU. pp. 701 and 1009.