CATARACT. 381 till it cuts its way out, making a semicircular flap of the lower half of the cornea; immediately upon which the eyelid should be dropped. Stilly. Waiting a few seconds, the surgeon takes a curette,—intro- duces the pointed end with the convexity upwards, and freely lacerates the capsule with it; and then withdraws it with the convexity down- wards. Gthly. He makes very gentle pressure on tlie under part of the globe, and on the upper e}'elid, till the lens rises through the pupil and escapes. Lastl}% the eye should be opened after a minute or two, to see that the flap of the cornea is rightly adjusted, and that the iris is not prolapsed : if it is, the eyes should be exposed to a bright light, so as to make the pupil contract, and the prolapsed portion should be gently pressed upon with the spoon of the curette. Then the operation is finished. It follows as a matter of necessitj% that there must be many varia- tions in the manner of performing an operation comprising so many minute and delicate manceuvres as the one under consideration. Thus, if the surgeon be ambidexter, he may sit before his patient, when operating on either eye ; but, if he can use his right hand only, he must sit behind his patient when operating on the right eye. Many surgeons make a flap of the upper half of the cornea, as represented in the next engraving, instead of the lower half. “ The advantages of this operation,” says Mr. Lawrence, “ are, that the operator has a more com- plete control over the globe; he can fix it very perfectly; that the aqueous humour does not escape so readily', and consequently that the section of the cornea is more readily accomplished; that there is less chance of prolapsus iridis ; and that the upper lid keeps the flap of the cornea in exact aj>- position.” If the surgeon have perfect use of the left hand, so that he can operate on the left eye with it, so much the better. There are commonly two or three fail- ures, after extraction in the left eye, to one in the right, simply be- cause the left eye is not so well operated on. Some operators again, dispense entirely with an assistant, and fix the globe with the left hand. Mr. Guthrie also objects to making the puncture of the cornea • The above cut must only be considered as conveying an idea of the opera- tion. The knife represented is too long and not broad enough.