32 GENERAL PHENOMENA OP INFLAMMATION. to some action or condition of them that the phenomena of inflamma- tion are due. But Dr. Macartne}' showed clearly that it could not be the blood- vessels which were the parts originally affected, and proposed a theory that a sense of injury felt by the organic nerves is the point de depart in inflammation; a theory not without its practical results, since it is very certain that inflammation after an injury may be prevented or mitigated by measures calculated to soothe and allay all sense of irritation. The next step arrived at was the con\*iction as stated by Mr. Travers,* that inflammation was not a disorder in any one element of the tissues alone; neither in the blood,blood-vessels, nerves, nor IjTnphatics; nor yet that it was a change purely physical, or chemical, or nervous; but that the tissues are involved as a living whole, and all their properties simultaneously. So Liebig’s theory, that in inflammation there is an unnaturally rapid oxj'dation of the inflamed tissues, is no doubt true, although not the whole truth. If we consider for a moment the relation which the living tissues and the blood-vessels have to each other in health, we shall acquire a more just idea of the share which they take respectively in inflamma- tion. The blood-vessels are but carriers. The arteries bring oxygen to excite the different functions, and to dissolve and destroy tissues that have played their part and are become effete; the}' also bring new material, which the tissues attract out of the capillaries, <and employ b}' means of their vital forces for their cure, reparation, and increase; and the veins carry away effete and superfluous matters. But they do no more; they are not, as it has been the custom to tenn them, the ayents of organization, the builders of the tissues ; for in the foetus much of organization is accomplished before blood-vessels are formed at all; and there are many tissues in the adult, such as the coniea and vitreous humour, which have no vessels, but nourish themselves, and carry on the processes of inflammation by means of the fluids which they attract from the vessels in their vicinity. Wherever in health the vital forces are most active, there most blood is conveyed. When the womb or breasts enlarge in pregnancy, their vessels become infinitely more voluminous ; but the enlargement of the womb is not the consequence of the dilatation of the blood-vessels, but the cause of it; more blood is demanded there, more blood is brought, and the arteries enlarge in obedience to the wants of the part they supply. If we apply these views to explain the essential nature of inflamma- tion, we shall be compelled to admit that its seat is—not mere vessel or nerve—but the entire living tissue. That the tissue, which in its * Travers on Inflammation, 1844. p. 26. This work contains copious and accurate accounts of microscopical observations on inflanunation excited in frogs, &c.