430 ^ ■ f NEcnosis of teeth. ache ; and causing excruciating pain if a portion of the food happens to be pressed down upon it. This may be relieved by a deep incision through the swollen gum, and the use of tannin gargle, of pellitory chewed, and of such aperients, F. 34, 35, as tend to unload a congested mucous membrane. VI. Inflammation of the central pulp sometimes affects a tooth that is apparently sound. It occasions severe, heavy throbbing pain extending to the head, and considerable tenderness of the tooth and of the gum around. It may lead to suppuration of the pulp, or to abscess in the alveolus, and death of the tooth in consequence. Treatment.—Leeches, low diet, and purgatives. VII. When a tooth is partially decayed, it very frequently causes inflammation of the periosteu.m of its soc/cet, which swells and so causes the tooth to feel looser, and longer than natural. The gum around the neck of the tooth is generally highly vascular. This state of things often ends in a gum-boil, or alveolar abscess. A leech, or a deep incision in the gum between the diseased tooth and its neigh- bours, and fomentations of poppy to the interior of the mouth are the remedies. VIII. Neuralgic toothache, whether it occurs in teeth that are entirely sound, or partially carious, is to be distinguished by its occurring in paroxysms which come and go suddenl3', in more or less regular intervals. It is verj' common in the earlier months of preg- nancy. Treatment.—Quinine or the carbonate of iron in targe doses, together with aperients and alteratives, are the most successful remedies. IX. Toothache sometimes has the characters of chronic rheu- matism ; flying about the jaw, affecting no tooth in particular, and not relieved by extraction, so much as by blue pill and aperients, with small doses of colchicum. The muriate of ammonia, in half-drachm doses, every four hours, dissolved in water, and the iodide of potassium, deserve a trial in these and other obstinate cases of toothache.* X. It sometimes happens that the fang of a tooth is thickened by a deposit of bone ; in which case the tooth becomes affected with severe pain that can ’ ardly be distinguished from that of neuralgia. It sometimes occurs on teeth that arc perfectly sound, but more gene- rally on carious teeth, or stumps. The excessive pain of this affection is in general only to be relieved by extraction. XI. Necrosis of Teeth.—A tooth is said to be necrosed when it has become black and unsightly, and loose in its socket. This affection may be caused by blows which have torn across the nutrient vessels, or by inflammation of the pulp (perhaps from the abuse of mercury). Extraction must be performed, if the tooth cause inflam- mation or other inconvenience. • Vide Dr. 'Watson’s Lectures, Leot. 39.