226 MALIGNANT TUMOURS. the parotid. Sometimes it tends to ossify, either into one solid tumour, or else a light skeleton of thin papery plates is diffused through it, of which the annexed cut affords an example. In other cases it tends to soften down into a substance much resembling colloid. It is not malignant, for although in- curable, except by extirpation, and although it may soften, ulcerate, and wear out the constitution by the irritation and discharge, still it does not usually return if thorough- ly extirpated, and does not affect any internal organs.* IV. Fibrous tumour, containing bony spicula, may be developed in the substance, or on the surface of bone, especially of the superior or inferior maxillary. V. Hvdatids, or thin cysts, containing a clear water, are occii- sionally developed in the substance of bone; causing it to expand and. form a tumour, the di.agnosis of which must be exceedingly diffi- cult, until the part has been laid open by operation. One of the best cases on record was described by Mr. Keate, who treated it suc- cessfully by removing as much as possible of the cysts and of the bone containing them, and applying a solution of sulphate of copper to the diseased surface.^ VI. Medullary sarcoma—{Fungoid exostosis)—is perhaps the most frequent malignant disease of bone. “ It generally,” says Mr. Mayo, “ arises in the cancellous structure ; it is therefore generally attended with considerable pain, for the growth of the tumour is rapid, and the shell of the bone has to be partly absorbed, partly mechanically forced open from within.” VII. SciRRHUS in bone is rare, and is generally a concomitant of the disease in the breast, or in some other part. The femur is the • Vide Muller on Tumours, translated by West. + Vide Mr. Keate’s case, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x.; quoted also in Mayo’s Pathology; case of hydatids growing on the tibia and causing absorption of the bone and fracture, in Wickham on Diseases of Joints ; and case of hydatids in bones of pelvis, Med. Gaz. vol. xxx. p. 990.