234 PARTICULAR FRACTURES. If a sharp end of bone protrude, and it cannot easily be returned or kept in its place, it should be sawn off. Any loose fragments or splinters of bone should be at once removed ; and if necessary, the wound may be dilated for this purpose. If suffered to remain, they greatly aggravate the inflammation and danger of tetanus, and may produce long-continued disease of the bone. After reduction, the great object is to produce adhesion of the external wound, so as to convert the compound fracture into a simple one, and the best applica- tion is a piece of lint dipped in blood, or in compound tincture of ben- zoin ; then bandages and splints are to be used ; but, if possible, the splints should have apertures corresponding to the wound, so that it may be dressed without disturbance to the whole limb. When inflam- mation and swelling come on, the bandages must be loosened, and cold be applied if agreeable. Pain and restlessness must be relieved by full doses of opium ; thirst, by saline draughts, F. 58 ; and the bowels be opened, if it can be done without disturbance. The cathe- ter should be used if required. But perhaps reaction is not fully es- tablished.—“We notice irregular action of the heart; the pulse does not rise as it should do ; in the state of sympathetic fever the artery is left sub-dilated, weak, and its beats are fluttering and uncertain ; the tongue is coated to a certain degree ; the expression of the coun- tenance agitated, and unsteady in its direction; and the sensorium seems faltering in its powers. The patient does not clearly under- stand his real state, and usually declares that he feels well; he does not sleep much, and is wandering when he does. The wound is dry, and the parts about it assume an ashen colour, with the feel of pufti- ness in the parts about it.”* For this condition brandy and beef-tea are the remedies. The great object in the subsequent treatment is to prevent the lodgment of matter, by sponging and pressing it out care- fully at each dressing, syringing with weak zinc lotion, and applying compresses to prevent its accumulation, and, if required, by making openings for its discharge. But if, notwithstanding the emplo3'ment of tonics, wine, and good diet, the patient seems likelj' to sink under the discharge and irritation, amputation is the last resource. SECTION IX. OF PARTICULAR FRACTURES. I. Fractures of the Ossa Nasi, and of the Malar and Superior Maxillary Bones, maj^ be produced by violent blows or falls on the face, or by gun-shot injuries. Treatment.—Any displacement of the fractured portions should be rectified as soon as possible, by passing a strong probe or female cathe- ter up the nostril, and by manipulation with the fingers. A depressed fragment may often be conveniently raised by passing one blade of a ♦ Vincent, op. cit. p. 327.