423 FISSURE OF THE PALATE. across the anterior pillar too ; the wound in each part being about a quarter of an incli in extent. Lastlj% stitches are introduced by means of a curved needle set in a handle ; and the threads being tied, so as to keep the cut edges of the fissure accurately in contact, the operation is completed.” The patient should be intelligent and quiet; and not under 12. or 14. The parts must be well dissected from the hard palate, by which means all tension will be taken off, and the sides of the fissure will fall loosely together, and the stitches may be now applied. It is hUjhbj important that a sufficient number of stitches be introduced. The greatest strain will be generally at the ante- rior extremity of the fissure, where the soft parts are most firmh' con- nected with the bones. The stitches are introduced bj' means of a curved needle set in a handle. “ The point of the instrument, armed with a smooth round waxed silk thread, is passed from below up- wards about a quarter of an inch from the cut margin of the fissure and made to appear in the middle of the gap, when the thread is seized with forceps, drawn three or four inches out of the mouth, and then the needle is withdrawn. A similar manmuvre is followed on the opposite side ; the two threads are then tied together by the ends, which have thus been drawn out at the mouth ; and by withdrawing one of them, the other will be carried through the aperture opposite to that where it was first intro- duced. Hitherto the thread has been double ; now one end must be drawn through the apertures and out at the mouth, and so the thread is ready to be tied. Two, three, four, or five threads are introduced in this way, and then after the cut margins of the flaps are sponged free of blood and mucus, the various threads are fastened.” The knot is shown in the adjoining cut. After the operation has been finished, the patient must be kept perfectly quiet. Milk, broth, and beef-tea may be given, but it is better that the patient should not take any- thing for some hours after the operation until the parts have become somewhat quiet. 'Ihe surgeon need not be in any great hurry to remove the stitches. Mr. I'ergusson in his early operations was in the habit of taking them away on the second day after the operation, but latterly he has per- mitted them to remain longer. “ It is better, in my opinion, to let the threads remain several days too long than that they should be