91 SENILE GANGRENE. I malady, as a fever; and especially if he has not strength to shift his I posture occasionally, the skin covering various projecting bony parts j (as the sacrum, brim of the ilium, or great trochanter) is apt to inflame ! and rapidly ulcerate or slough ; and more particularly if irritated by I neglect of cleanliness, or by the contact of urine. The first thing often ( complained of by the patient is a sense of pricking, as though there were crumbs or salt in the bed. The part, if examined at first, looks I red and rough ; then becomes excoriated and ulcerates, or turns black I and mortifies. This accident is particularly liable to happen if the i spinal cord has been injured. Treatment.—When long confinement to bed is expected, it is a good I plan to apply some stimulant to the skin of the back and hips, to cause 1 it to secrete a thicker cuticle, and enable it to bear pressure better. Nothing can bo better for this purpose than brandy : but Brodie recommends a lotion of two grains of corrosive sublimate to an ounce I of proof spirit, to be applied twice or thrice a day. If the part seems ! likely to suffer, it maj' be covered with a broad piece of calico spread with soap plaster ; and small pillows, or mackintosh cushions, or ox- 1 bladders half filled with water, or water-cushions of vulcanized India I rubber should be arranged so as to take off the weight from the part affected; and the patient should be made to shift his position often, ■ and occasionally lie on his face; or be placed on a water bed. The ■ soft poultice (F. 153) will be found of great service. After sloughing I has commenced, the ung. resina; is the best application. Senile Gangrene.—Symptoms.—This affection commences by a I purple or black spot on the inner sides or extremity of one of the : smaller toes ; from which spot “ the cuticle,” says Pott, “ is always 1 found to be detached, and the skin under it to bo of a dark red colour.” • “ In some few instances, there is little or no pain ; but in by far the I majority, the patients feel great uneasiness through the whole foot or j joint of the ankle, particularly in the night, even before these parts sshow any mark of distemper, or before there is any other than a small (discoloured spot at the end of one of the little toes.” * Its progress in •some cases is slow, in others rapid and horribly painful. After its f first appearance, the actual gangrene will generally be preceded by a dark red congestive inflammation. The dead parts become shrunk, dry, and hard ; and when the disease makes a temporary pause, wliich it ffrequently does, they slowly slough away; but a fresh accession of -gangrene mostly supervenes before anj' progress has been made towards ccicatrization. In this way the patient may live several winters, but often sinks exhausted with the nocturnal pain before the whole of the ffoot is destroyed. I’atholoyy.—This disease is preceded by ossification of the arteries, or by their degeneration into gristly impervious cords. Hence the foot is imperfectly nourished; it is weak and liable to pain and numb- ness if heated after being cold; and a chilblain, or any other trivial ♦ Pott's Chirurgical Works. 8vo. Loml. 1771.