FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 236 swelling. Great pain and difficulty of motion and obscure crepitus are the chief signs. Treatment, By the four-tailed bandage.—A piece of pasteboard, softened in boiling water, should be accurately fitted to the jaw, and then a four-tailed bandage should be applied. This is made % taking a yard and a half of wide roller, and tearing each end longitudinally, so as to leave about eight inches in the middle, which should have a short slit in it. The chin is to be put into this slit, and then two of the tails are to be tied over the crown of the head, so as to fix the lower jaw against the upper, and the other two are to be fastened behind the head. The teeth on either side of the fracture may be fastened together with dentists’ silk. The patient should be kept in bed, with his chin bent down on his chest. It is useful to place a thin wedge-shaped piece of cork between the molar teeth on each side, especially if any of the teeth at the fractured part are deficient. Sometimes a tooth falls down between the broken parts ; a circum- stance which should be looked to, if there is much difficulty in fitting them together. ‘Indly, By apparatus.—If the above simple means do not suffice to keep the fractured parts in contact, Mr. Lonsdale’s apparatus should be used ; and perhaps it would be well to adopt it in all cases, after the primary swelling and tenderness have subsided. 11 aflbrds per- fect support, and yet allows of free motion.* The patient for the first fortnight must be fed entirely with broth, gruel, bread-pap, &c. The cure generally occupies five or six weeks. III. Fracture of the Clavicle is most frequently situated at the middle of the bone, and it is generally caused by falls on the arm or shoulder ; sometimes, however, by direct violence, when it is gene- rally situated near the acromial extremity. When fracture of the acromial end of this bone is situated between the coraco-acromial liga- ments, there is very little displacement; but when the fracture is external to these ligaments, the acromial extremity of the bone is apt to turn round at right angles to the sternal portion.'l' Symptoms.—The patient complains of iimbility to lift the affected arm, and supports it at the elbow; the shoulder sinks dou-nivards, fonuards, and imvards ; the distance from the acromion to the ster- num is less than it is on the sound side;—and the end of the sternal fragment of the bone projects as though it were displaced, although it is not so in reality, but merely appears to be so, in consequence of the sinking of the shoulder and of the outer fragment. Treatment.—The shoulder must be raised, and must be supported in a direction upwards, backwards, and outtvards. The broken parts • Lonsdale on Fractures, Lond. 1838. It consists of a grooved plate of ivory to fit the teeth, and a wooden plate adapted to the base of the bone. These two plates are fastened together by screws. See also Fergusson, op. cit. 2nd edit. ^ t A Treatise on Fractures in the vicinity of Joints, by Robert William Smith M.l). <fcc. Dublin, 1847. A most complete and masterly work.