252 FRACTURES OP THE FEMUR. y or both trochanters are split through likewise. If the cervix be firmly ^ impacted and the trochanters are still adhering by untorn periosteum, j the diagnosis of this fracture presents obvious difficulties ; for there i, is no crepitus ; the limb is shortened, but yet cannot be brought to its natural length by any justifiable amount of extension, and is not I so everted, nor. so powerless as is usual in fracture ; yet if the dis- | tance of the trochanter from the anterior superior iliac spine be mea- » sirred, it will be found less than on the opposite side. If, however, this fracture be so comminuted, that the cervix is not impacted in the shaft, the shortening and eversion are well marked, and crepitus can be produced on extension and rotation. Treatment.—If the patient’s age, and strength, and health, admit of the confinement to bed and application of apparatus, an endeavour must be made to procure bony union, and the indications are to pre- .^erve the length of the limb, and to keep the great trochanter pressed to- tcards the aeetabulum. The principal method now employed is that of the long straight splint. The common straight splint of Dessault extends from the pelvis to the foot, and has a footboard with straps, &c., at the bottom. i But the simple splint employed by Mr. Liston, and depicted in the '' adjoining cut, is much better. It is a simple deal board, of a hand’s breadth for an adult, but narrower and slighter for a young person. It should reach from opposite the nipple to four or five inches below ' the foot. At its upper end it has two holes, and at its lower end two deep notches ; with a hollow' for the outer ankle. “ A pad of corre- sponding length and breadth is attached by a few pieces of tape: a roller is split at the end, and having been tied through the openings in the top part of the splint, is unrolled as far as the bottom, where it is fixed for a time. The limb must now be gently extended from foot and pelvis to its proper length, and must be bandaged from the foot to the hip. The splint is next applied to the outside of the limb, and | the roller before spoken of must be repeatedly passed round the instep and .ankle, and through the notches, so as to secure the foot, and must , then be carried up the leg. A perineal b.and, composed of a Large soft handkerchief padded with tow and covered with oiled silk, must be ( I 1