246 FRACTURES OF THE RIBS. around the splints in the usual manner.” Three weeks should el.apse for a young patient, and four or five for an old one, before the wrist is moved ; and the patient should be informed at first that some months will elapse before the use of the part is restored. VII. Fracture of the Hand.—The carpus is rarely fractured without so much other injury as to render amputation necessary. Fracture of the metacarpal Ijones, or of the phala7iges, will be readily recognised. With respect to compound fracture of these parts we may observe, that no part of the hand should be amputated unless positively necessary, and even one finger should be saved if it can be done. Treatment.—For fractures of the carpus, middle metacarpal bones, and first phalanges, it is a good plan to make the patient grasp a ball of tow or some other soft substance, and bind his hand over it; for fracture of the lateral metacarpal bones, it is better to support the hand on a flat wooden splint, cut into the shape of the thumb and fingers. If one finger only be fractured, it may be confined by a thin lath or 1 pasteboard splint. It must be recollected that the palmar surfaces of the metacarpal and digital bones are concave. They must, therefore, be slightly padded before they are bound to any fiat surface, or they will unite crookedly. VIIl'. Fractures of the Ribs is generally situated in their an- terior half, and is commonly caused by di)-ect violence, such as blows ; the bone giving way at the point struck. Sometimes, however, it is caused by hidirect violence ; as for Instance, when the chest is violently compressed between two points. In 1837 several people were crushed to death in a crowd in the Champ de Mars, in Paris, and many of them were found to have several ribs broken in this manner. Sometimes, in old subjects, one or more ribs are broken by violent coughing.* Syjnptoms. — Fixed lancinating pain, aggravated by inspiration, coughing, or any other motion. By tracing the outline of the bone, or by placing the hand or the stethoscope upon it, crepitus m.ay be felt during the act of coughing or inspiration, and the patient is sensible of it likewise. If the fracture be situated near the spine, or if the patient be very corpulent, it maj' be difficult to detect it with certainty, but this is of little consequence; for in every case, when a patient complains of pain on inspiration, after a blow on the chest, the treat- ment is the same. Treatment.—The indications are, 1. To diminish inotion of all the ribs, by passing a broad flannel roller, or a towel fastened with tape round the chest, so tightly, that respiration may be performed chiefly by the diaphragm. The bandage should have shoulder-straps to keep it up. The arms should be confined to the side so as to prevent all motion of the scapula, and this latter in fat women is all that can bo * See an interesting paper on Fracture of tlic Ribs, by M. Malgaigne, in the Arch. G6n. de Med. 1838, quoted in R. and F. Med. Rev. vol. vii. p. 554.