352 INJDKIES OF THE EYE. three weeks, or .a month ; and in some rare cases, recovery has even occurred, of course with permanent paraplegia. The manner in which death occurs after these injuries,is from general exh.austion and debi- lity. The appetite and digestion fail; a weakening diarrheea comes on, and then the nates slough, and the patient soon sinks. The prognosis is very uncertain after severe blows ; sometimes the patient has reco- vered the use of his limbs even after complete paraplegia ; sometimes recovery occurs with pennanent paraplegia ; sometimes on the other hand, the patient having appeared to recover from the ill effects of the injury, most unexpectedly becomes paralytic, and dies from slow dis- organization of the cord. Treatment.—1. If there be anj'displacement, an attempt maybe made to reduce it by extension. In partial dislocations of the neck, however, the attempt should be very cautious indeed, since although it has succeeded (in the case of M. Guerin for instance), it has also been known to produce instant death. 2. The patient must be kept at perfect rest in the horizontal posture, and the greatest care must be taken to prevent or delay gangrene of the nates, b}' arranging pillows or Macintosh’s air-cushions, half filled with water. 3. The urine must be drawn oft’ by the catheter, and the bowels be kept open by clysters and purgatives, to which Sir B. Brodie recommends ammonia to be added. Tonics and the muriatic acid ma_y be given to support the strength, and obviate the derangement of the urine. Tlie tympanitic state of the belly may be relieved by rubbing it with the compound camphor liniment. 4. Bleeding or cupping may occasionally be em- ploj’ed if there are inflammatory symptoms, and the pulse is firm. But in the majority of cases, if fracture has occurred, and the cord is inj\ired, loss of blood is contra-indicated by the pulse, and would hasten a fatal issue. 5. If the patient recover with his life, any re- maining weakness or palsy may perhaps be attempted to be removed by the cautious use of blisters or issues, friction, wann bathing, and the internal use of strychnine ; but they will very rarely do any good.* I. Wounds of the eyelids or eyebrows should be most carefully adjusted by means of sutures, introduced with a very fine sewing needle. The greatest care should be taken to prevent irregular cica- • Vide Cooper on Dislocations, and Brodie on Injuries of tlie Spinal Cord, in Mod. Chir. Trans., vol. xxi. OF THE INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EVE. CHAPTER XII. SECTION I.—OF WOUNDS AND FOREIGN BODIES.