552 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. large pin’s head to tliat of a horse-bean, is liable to grow from the female urethra. It causes great distress through its exquisite sensi- bility. It should be cut off, and the potassa fusa be applied to the surface to prevent its reproduction. But, immediately after the caustic, a sponge dipped in diluted vinegar should be applied, in order to prevent injury to the surrounding sound parts; and if it is neces- sary to introduce the caustic within the urethra, it must be bj”^ means of a tube which has an aperture in it corresponding to the diseased surface. VI. The Catheter may be easily introduced into the female urethra \\dth one hand thus:—The surgeon holding it like a pen, but with its point on the tip of the forefinger, passes the forefinger be- tween the labia, and feels for the meatus. The catheter is then easily slipped into the orifice. Either hand may be used, according to the patient’s position in bed. f VII. Imperforate Hymen'.—Sometimes this membrane com- pletely obstructs the vagina, and causes the menstrual fluid to ac- cumulate and distend the uterus. The impediment is easily got rid of by a crucial incision. Then all the black treacly fluid that has accumulated should be immediately syringed out with warm water, otherwise it might putrefy, and cause typhoid fever and death. The abdomen should be bandaged, and the patient be confined to her bed till the uterus has resumed its healthy size. VIII. Varicocele.—Enlargement of the veins of the labia, form- ing a soft tumour which enlarges when the patient rises, and increases so as to form a most painful impediment to exercise, but disappears when she lies down. Treatmc.nl.—Cold bathing, and support by a firm truss, or T band- age with a pad. ■ IX. The labia may be the seat of acute inflammation, and of en- cysted tumours, which perhaps may be connected with the round liga- ment; of hernia, and of sarcomatous or fatty enlargements. The treatment of these cases requires no distinct commejits. The clitoris and nymph.T, if they grow to an inconvenient size, should be curtailed by an incision—and if they are affected with scirrhus, should be entirely extirpated at an early period.