468 CHAPTER XVIII. OF HERNIA. SECTIO.V I.—OF THE NATURE AND CAUSES OF HERNIA GENERALLY. Definition.—Hernia signifies a protrusion of any nscus from its natural cavity. But tlie term, employed singly, is restricted to signify protrusion of the abdominal viscera. Causes.—The formation of hernia may be readily understood by considering that the abdominal viscera are subject to frequent and violent pressure from the diaphragm and the other muscles by which they are surrounded, a pressure which tends to force them outwardlj' against the parietes of the abdomen. If any point of the parietes be not strong enough to resist this pressure, some portion of the viscera may be forced through it, and form a hernial tumour externally. The predisposing cause of hernia, therefore, is a weakness of the parietes of the abdomen, which may be produced by various circum- stances. Thus 1. some parts of the parietes are naturallj' weaker than others; especially the inguinal and crural rings, and the umbilicus; and it is at these parts that hernia most frequently occurs. 2. The abdominal parietes may be weak from malformation, or congenital deficiencj% 3. They may be weakened by injury or diseases, such as abscesses, wounds, and bruises; or by distention by the pregnant uterus, or bj- dropsy. The exciting cause is compression of the viscera, by the action of the muscles tliat surround them, and especially of the diaphragm. Hence hemia is so frequent a result of violent bodily exertion—lifting heavy weights and the like—especially if the patient have been previously weakened by illness. Moreover, it is not uncommon in persons afflicted with stone or stricture, from the immoderate straining that they employ in passing their urine. The viscera most liable to hernial protrusion are the small intes- tines, omentum, and arch of the colon. But every one of them has occasionally been found protruded, partially or entirely—especialh' in cases of congenital deficiency of the abdominal parietes.'’ The Sac of a hernia is a portion of the parietal or rejkcted layer of peritonaeum which the protruding viscera push before them in their escape, and which forms a pouch containing them. It very soon con- tracts adhesion to the surrounding cellular tissue, and consequently does not return into the abdomen when the viscera are replaced; although it must be observed, that a hemia may be pushed back en masse, sac and all, when great force is used in reducing a strangu- lated hernia. As the hernia increases in size, the sac also increases; partly by growth, partly by distension, and slight laceration or un- ravelling; partly by fresh protrusion of peritonaeum. Sometimes it