199 TUMOURS. tissue ;—and sometimes containing irregular patches of earthy deposit. When examined microscopically, its structure is seen to be identical with that of natimal fibrous tissue, and the fibres are arranged concen- trically;—not rectilinearly as in scirrhus. If boiled, it yields gela- tine ; scirrhus does not. In external character, it is a firm, lobulated tumour, circumscribed, moveable, and free from tenderness, unless accidentally inflamed. It is also free from pain, unless it press upon some sensitive part. It grows slowly but steadily, and when it has attained considerable bulk, the veins on its surface become enlarged and tortuous. The favourite seats of this tumour are the subcutaneous and submucous cellular tissue, and especially that of the womb. As to its consequences, (1) it may last the whole life of the individual, without any ulterior con- sequences. Or (2) it may, by its enlargement, inflame the skin, or mucous membrane covering it, and cause obstinate and dangerous ulceration ; or may even slough out entirely. (3) It may produce sundry inconveniences, or even death, by pressure on various parts. Diagnosis.—It is known from abscess or inflammatory tumour by its sloiu, but steadi/, and painless enlargement. To distinguish it from malignant disease, the points to be attended to are, “ the effect upon the constitution that is, the presence or absence of the can- cerous cachexia;—and the extent to which the tumour is connected with the surrounding parts.* For the non-malignant tumour can generally have its outline traced, and the line of separation between it and the neighbouring parts cle;irly made out; and the skin or mucous membrane can be made to move freely over it. Not so in the case of a malignant tumour. The non-malignant is also more smooth and regular than schirrus. H. Bennett believes them identical at first, and indistinguishable. It is often stated that these tumours may de- generate into scirrhus, or take on malignant ulceration; but Dr. Walshe believes, that though the ulcers arising under the circumstances stated above may be dangerous or intractable, jmt that a real malignant growth is seldom if ever deposited in fibrous tumours. The proper treatment is extirpation with the knife, II. The Fatty Tu.mour consists of lobulated masses of fat, very slightly vascular, and contained in a cyst of cellular tissue. In exter- nal character, it is a softish, lobulated, painless tumour, feeling like fat. Its groivth is slow, but progressive ; and it may attain enormous bulk, even forty pounds. Its terminations may be the same as those of the last-named tumour, and its treatment should be also the same. Operation.—An incision—rather too long than too short—should be made along the tumour, and through its cellular cyst. If the skin adhere to it (but not otherwise), a portion may be removed by two elliptical incisions. Next, the tumour should be removed as rapidly as possible, partly by cutting its cellular adhesions, partly by tearing them with the finger. Then the wound should be examined to ascer. * See the points of diagnosis instructively stated in Fergusson, op. eit. 2nd edit. p. 144.