179 GONORRHOEA. the pcrinrcum, hark and steel, good living, and perfect chastity of body and mind arc the necessary remedies. If all other means fail, the por/e caustupte of Lalleinand may be introduced, for the purpose of slightl}' touching the whole of the canal with the nitrate of silver; or a strip of linen, about eight inches long, may be introduced for a few hours. This is pushed by a stilet into the canal of a gum-elastic catheter, which is open at both ends; the catheter is introduced; then it is withdrawn over the stilet, which keeps the linen in the urethra, and lastly, the stilet itself is withdrawn, leaving the linen. These two plans are not applicable if the urethra is very irritable. A scirrhous or scmi-caiiilayiuous condition of the corpus spongiosum urethra; is always extremely difficult to get rid of. The frequent intro- duction of bougies ; friction with ointments of mercury or iodine, warm bathing, and the internal use of Plummer’s pill and iodine, afford the best chance of relief. Cases are recorded in which portions of osseous matter have been removed from the septum penis by incision.* Gonorrhceul rheumatism must be treated on the same principles as common rheumatism. The bowels should be well cleared by calomel and black draught, .and then colchicum should be given in doses of l)|^xx. of the wine with magnesiii, F. 71, every four or five hours, .and a dose of Dover's powder at bedtime. In the chronic stage, F. G3, at bedtime;—iodide of potassium, s<arsaparilla, b.ark, volatile tincture of gnaiacum, sea air, tonics, and warm bathing, are the remedies. Bleeding can hardly ever be required. The Treat.mext of Oonorrhcea in the Female must be conducted upon precisely the s.ame principles. During the acute stage, rest in the recumbent posture, fomentations of decoction of poppyheads with chamomile flowers, frequent ablution, lubrication with lard or cold cream—and very frequent sponging with a wc.ak solution of alum, a piece of lint dipped in which should be inserted between the labia; with laxatives and diaphoretics, arc the measures to be adopted, until heat, pain, and tenderness subside; afterwards injections of nitrate of silver, and sulphate or acetate of zinc should be used, just as has been recommended for the other sex; and they should bo continued for some time after all discharge has ceased. But much greater liberties may be taken with the vagina than with the male urethra; and the disease may often be stopped at once, without risk, by the application of the solid nitrate of silver, as recommended by Jewel and others. It should be .applied, however, cither the inflammatory symptoms have attained .an)' height, or after they h.ave subsided. Tercbinthinate medicines (copaiba, Ac.) may be given, although they do not do much good, unless the discharge proceeds from the urethra or its vicinity. Abscesses or other complications are rare; but it they occur, they must be treated on general principles. Titloy, p. 175.