249 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. It is very rare in persons under fifty; but very common in old people, especially old women ; because this part of the femur seems to suffer first and chiefly from the atrophy and fatty degeneration which all the bones, more or less, experience in advanced life.* Syviptoms.—After a blow or fall, the patient finds him- self unable to stand, and complains of great pain, in- creased by motion, and prin- cipally seated at the upper and inner part of the thigh. The leg is shorter than the other;—the foot turned out- wards ; — the heel rests in the interval between the ankle and tendo Achillis of the other leg ; crepitus may be detected if the hand or the stethoscope be placed on the trochanter, whilst the limb is drawl to its proper length and rotated. When extension is discontinued the limb shortens again. The trochanter generally projects less than on the other side; and if the foot be rotated by an assistant, it is felt to move in a seg- ment of a lesser circle than natural. The limb may gene- rally be freely moved by the surgeon,although with great pain, especially if it is abducted; but the patient cannot lift it from the bed. * It is sometimes stated that the neck of the femur is commonly shortened in 1 old persons, and sunk from the oblique to the horizontal posture; but it is ■ doubtful whether tliis is the case, except when the joint has been alfected with I chronic rlunimatic arthritis. In this disease, which often affects old beih-idden persons, the acetabulum is expanded and surrounded with irregular bony I growth; the cartilage removed and replaced by porcellaneous deposit; the neck I of the femur shortened so that the head is almost in contact with the top of the I shaft; the capsule thickened, with irregular gi'owths of bone around it (which I have sometimes been mistaken for a misplaced effort of nature to repair a fractured cervix), sometimes at the part where the capsular ligament is inserted, I the bony texture is completely absorbed, and its place supplied with a ligamento- < cartilaginous substance; appearances which have been mistaken for united f fracture. Smith, op. cit.; Edwin Canton’s notes on the morbid anatomy of t Clironic Riieuinatic Arthritis, &c. Reprinted from Med. Gaz. 1848. Roberts, 1 Exeter, 1848.