380 CATARACT. 1. Extraction.—The object of this operation is, to make an in- cision through half of the circumference of the cornea, almost close to the sclerotic; to lacerate the capsule of the lens; and then to extract the cataract entire, through the pupil. Its advantage is, that it effectually removes the cataract; its disadvantage, that in the event of a failure sight is almost irretrievably lost. It is best adapted for hard cataracts in elderly people. But it should not be attempted, 1st, if the patient is very old and feeble, in case the wound of the cornea might not unite. 2ndly. If the anterior chamber is very small and the cornea very flat, so that a sufficiently large opening cannot be made in it. 3rdly. If the iris adheres much to the cornea, or if the cataract is large and pushes it forwards, or if the pupil is habitually contracted. 4thly. If the eye is sunken, or if the fissure of the lids is preternaturally small. 5thly. If the ej'es are very unsteadj', or if the patient is subject to habitual cough or asthma, or is unmanageable in consequence of infancy or idiocy. Some practitioners direct that one eye only should be operated on at a time, the other being kept as a reserve, whilst others are not afraid to operate on both together. Preliminaries.—The patient should be seated in a low chair with a high back, opposite a window that admits a good clear light, but no sunshine, and the eye to be operated upon should be turned some- what obliquely to the window, so that the operator may not see the image of it on the cornea. The surgeon should sit immediately before the patient on a higher chair; and should have a stool, so as to raise one knee to a proper height for steadying the elbow of the operating hand upon it. Behind the patient an assistant should stand, whose duties are 1 st, to steady the head against the back of the chair, or against his own breast. 2ndly. To elevate the upper eyelid, and fix it against the margin of the orbit, with one forefinger. 3rdlj\ To drop it at a preconcerted signal from the surgeon. Operation.—The surgeon, 1st, depresses the lower eyelid, and steadies the globe with the fore and middle fingers of one hand, but without exerting any pressure on it. Pie particularlj" endeavours to prevent it from rolling inwards during the operation. 2ndly, holding the cornea-hiife* like a pen (in the right hand for the left e}'e, and vice versa), and resting the other fingers on the patient’s cheek, he touches the cornea once or twice with the flat part of the blade, in order to take off the patient’s alarm. 3rdly. lie punctures the cornea close to its outer margin, pushing the point of the blade perpendicu- larly towards the iris, and not obliquely; otherwise it would pass between the laminm of the cornea instead of entering the anterior chamber. 4thly. Pie must push it steadily across parallel to the iris, * The knife called Beer’s is most used. It has a trian^lar blade, the point sharp, the back straight and blunt, the edge slanting obliquely, and the blade increasing in breadth and thickness as it approaches the handle. The advan- tages of this shape are, that it fills up the incision which it makes, and prevents the escape of the aqueous humour ; and that the flap of the cornea is made by one simple motion, that is, by pushing the knife inwards.