310 ANEURISM. at the other.* By means of either of these instruments it is evident that the pressure is confined to two points only of the circumference of the limb. As soon as it becomes irksome to the patient, it can easily be shifted to a spot higher or lower down in the course of the \ .artery ; and it seems advisable to have either two or three instru- ments, or else two or three p.ads on the same instrument, so that, as soon as the pressure at one point becomes painful, it is remitted there, and another instrument tightened at a point higher, or lower in the course of the vessel. The advantages of compression are, that the patient need not be exposed to inflammation, erysipelas, or phlebitis, if proper care be taken ; that it can be discontinued in a moment should k appe.ar ex- pedient ; and that there is no chance of that severe and frequent accident of the ligature—secondary haemorrhage. The objections to it are, that in some cases the patient, from a pecu- liar irritability of system, or from a great sensitiveness to pain, cannot by any possibility bear it for a sufficient length of time to produce a cure. Several cases have occurred in which the pressure h.as been of necessity remitted after the patient has borne a great deal of pain, and the operation of tying the .artery has been performed. It will also happen, even in cases where the pressure can be endm'ed for a time, that inflammation and sloughing of the integuments will ensue. And this will take place in those cases where there is a • A modification of the circular tomiquet with a spring of vulcanized Indian rubber is de.scribed by Dr. Carte, Dub. Mod. Prc.ss, May 16, 1849. In one case (quoted in Banking’s Abstriict, ix. 286) in which pressure by instnnnents was quite intolerable, the artery was compressed where it passes over the os pubis by the fingers of medical pupils, relieving each other every hour or half hour, and the tumour solidified in forty hours. The ca.so was treated by Dr. Knight, of New Haven, United States.