ILL EFFECTS OP MERCURY, 105 Constitutional Treatment.—If there are none of the contra indi- cations that will be mentioned presently, the patient should take mercury. Not because it is absolutely necessary in all cases, but because it hastens the cure of the primary sores, and affords a more decided security ayainst secondary symptoms. But before doing so, it will be right to open the bowels by blue pill and black draught;—and to prescribe low living, rest, and saline medicines, till local pain and bijlammation and. any general disorder of the system have been removed. A icarni hath or two may also be useful. But great ca^must be taken not to induce weakness. Then the object is to induce a geiitle mercurial action, and to maintain it long enough; and the latter point requires to be especially insisted on in the present day, because surgeons, in order to avoid giving too much mercurj’’, now seem inclined to give too little. Five grains of blue pill should be given every night and morning; and if no effect on the mouth is produced by the fourth day, the dose at night should be doubled. This will rarely fail, in another day or two, to produce a very slight soreness and sponginess of the gums with a slight increase of the saliva, which is all that is wanted ; for the onlj^ use of salivation is to show that the system is affected. The mercurial in- fluence should be steadily maintained for four or five weeks, and until the sore has healed and all hardness of the cicatrix has vanished. If the mouth become too sore, the dose should be lessened ;—if the sore- ness subside too soon, it may be increased ; or two or three doses of calo- mel may be added. Meanwhile the patient should live regularly, but not too low :—he should avoid all excess of food or wine, and acescent vegetables, and everything likely to disorder the bowels ;—his clothing should be rather warm, so as to keep the skin perspirable ;—and, above all, he should most sedulously avoid fatigue, cold, w'et, and night air. The strong mercurial ointment is not so likely to disorder the bowels as the blue pill, but it is more troublesome, and is now almost an obso- lete remedy. The dose is from 5fs—5j;—to be rubbed in daily upon the inside of the thighs or arms till it disappears. The morning is the best time for doing it, as the skin is then softer ; it should be rubbed on different limbs successively ; the patient wearing the same drawers both by night and day. If the skin becomes irritated, it should be well washed and bathed. If the patient is too weak to rub in the ointment himself, it must be performed by a servant, whose hands should be protected by a pig’s bladder, well softened in oil and tied round his wrist. In some cases it may be expedient to subject the patient daily to a vapour-bath, medicated with the vapour of from 20 to GO grains of cinnabar.* If caloirwl is preferred, two or three grains may be given every night, combined with a little opium: but it is more apt to purge, and should be used only with strong robust people, who would be un- affected by milder means. * Langston Parker ; .vide Ranking’s Abstract, vol. iv.