543 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. quently bathed with F. 118; or F. 160 maybe applied with moderate pressure, as directed at p. 262. III. Abscess of the testis may be a result of chronic or scrofulous inflammation—very rarely of the acute. A puncture should be made so soon as fluctuation is clearly felt, and the skin is adherent. When an aperture is formed spontaneously or by art, a soft bleeding fungus, composed of the tubuli, and of granulations, is apt to protrude. This should be rettirned to its place by pressure with strips of plaster; and \ stimulating applications, such as the red precipitate, or a strong solu- tion of lunar caustic, should be used in order to e-vcite granulation. Should this fail, Mr. Syme’s operation should be resorted to, of making two semi-elliptical incisions ( ), one on either side of the fungus, re- 1 moving the narrow edge of skin around the fungus, and then bringing the healthy skin from either side over it, and employing sutures and other measures for procuring adhesion. To shave-off the protruding^ substance would be almost equal to castration. IV. Scrofulous Inflammation commences with a deposit of tubercle into some part of the testis or epididymis, either into or between the tubuli. A nodular swelling appears externally, at- tended with very little pain or tenderness, which after a time inflames and bursts, and gives exit to the fungous protrusion just mentioned. It generally happens that the lungs are tubercular as Treatment.—The health must be invigorated by tonics, alteratives, and change of air, and the local actions be excited bj-- stimulating lo- tions. When all the tubercular matter has been evacuated, the abscess heals of itself; but, before this occurs, tlie whole organ is often disor- ganised and rendered useless, and sometimes it is necessary to remove it, on account of the irritation and drain on the system. V. Atrophy of the testicle may be a result of excessive venereal indulgence, or of inflammation; the part becoming filled with lymph, which first annihilates the tubular structure, and then is itself absorbed. The gland dwindles to the size of a pea. There is no cure. VI. N EURALGiA of the testis and cord, produces fits of excruciat- ing pain, which leave the parts tender and slightly swollen. The treatment must be that of neuralgia generally. All the secreting and excreting organs must be set in order. Violent purgatives in general do mischief. A few leeches,.the application of intense cold, counter- irritants, and opiate or belladonna plasters, sometimes afford relief. The internal remedies most likely to do good are sarsaparilla, (luinine, arsenic, and other tonics. Extreme sensitiveness of the testis, so that it cannot bear the slightest touch, in another form of this disorder sometimes met with in nervous liypochondriacal subjects; especially in persons who labour under a diseased condition of the urethra, or excessive spermatic discharges. Tonics and cold applications may be tried, and the cause of the affection should be ascertiiincd, and if possible removed. In these cases, the patients often desire to be castrated. Before doing so, the surgeon ought to convince himself well.