GUN-SnOT WOUNDS. 12G —SO that the treatment is protracted for many months ; and even after the cure is completed, the limb remains disabled by contractions and adhesions of the muscles, and is liable to (Edematous swellings from the structural and vital weakness which a continuance of inflam- mation always induces. Lodgment of Foreign Bodies.—If the ball or any other foreign bodies remain lodged, the present inflammation and constitutional disturbance will be proportionally more severe, and the resulting sup- puration more profuse and exhausting ; and it will besides be accom- panied with more or less pain, till the exciting cause is got rid o£ But if the constitution or parts do not possess much irritability, if the ball be small and polished, and if it press against no nerves, or vessels, or other sensitive parts, it may, and often does, remain for years with- out creating any disturbance—a cyst being formed for it in the belly of a muscle, or in the interstitial cellular tissue. Rare Complications.—Mr. Guthrie has described two rare and pecu- liarly fatal forms of inflammation occasionally supervening on gun-shot wounds. The^^rrf is a most acute inflammation, attacking the muscles and other deep-seated parts, with very little affection of the skin. In the instances related, the wounds were apparently going on well, when they became extremely painful towards evening ; the pain increased during the night, and death occurred before morning. “ On dissec- tion,” says the learned author, “ the whole limb seemed so stuffed or gorged with blood, that the textime of the parts, muscular as well as cellular, was soft, and readily gave way to a moderate pressure with the fingers. I can only compare it to the appearance of a part just falling into a state of gangrene.” The second variety made its appearance after the first two days, and in every case which Mr. G. saw, the wound was in the upper extremity. The part swelled, and was rather oederaatous, and af- fected with a burning pain : the skin was bright and glossy. In fatal cases, the swelling rapidly extended up to tlie axilla, and then diffi- culty of breathing came on, and was soon followed by death. One patient only, out of six, was saved, by the most vigorous antiphlogistic treatment. The first three cases were not examined after death ; in the fourth, the great veins were inflamed, and in the fifth there was effusion into the chest. Mortification supervening on gun-shot wounds may occur under the following conditions:—(1.) When the injured parts are irrecoverably disorganised, so that thej' immediately cease to live ; which sometimes happens to the tissues in the immediate track of a musket-ball, or to a whole limb struck by a spent shot. (2.) From excess of inflammation following a wound especially if the excess is due to a disordered state of the constitution. (.3.) From division of the great arterial and venous trunks. This is indicated by its commencing in the extremity of the limb ; the foot or the hand for instance ; and it presents a com- bination of the two forms of dry and humid gangrene. The most dis- tant parts become cold, pale, and insensible ; this state spreads up the