233 COMPOUND PRAOTURE. during fever ; and this occurrence used to be common enough in the sea scurvy. SECTION VIII.—OP COMPOUND FRACTURE. Definition.—A simple fracture may be attended with a wound ; but unless the wound communicates with the fracture, the latter is not compound. Causes.—Fractm'e ma}' be rendered compound. 1. By the same injury which broke the bone. 2. By the bone being thrust through the skin. 3. By subsequent ulceration or sloughing of the integu- ments. Dangers.—These are threefold. 1. The shock and collapse of the injury, which may prove fatal in a few hours, especially if much blood has been lost. 2. Inflammation, fever, and tetanus. 3. Hectic or typhoid fever from e.vcessive suppuration. Question of A.mputation.—In order to decide upon the necessity of this operation, the e.vtent of the injury and the restorative powers of the patient must be most carefully e.xamined. If the bone is very much shattered and comminuted; if the fracture e.xtends into a joint, especially the knee;—if the soft parts are e.xtensively torn or bruised; if, in particular, the skin has been torn away, so that the wound cannot be closed ; or if it is so injured that a large tract of it must slough ; if the patient is very old, or much enfeebled, either by previous disease, or present loss of blood ; if the collapse of the injury is excessive and permanent; amputation is probably requisite. Of course more may be hazarded with a young patient, or with an old person of a spare, firm habit, who has always been healthy and temperate, than with one who is bloated and plethoric, and in the constant habit of enfeebling his vital powers by over-stimulation and animal indulgence. Litcemtion of A rteries is a dangerous complication both of simple and compound fracture. It is detected by the great flow of blood, if there be a wound ; and if not, by a rapid, diffused, and dark- coloured tumefaction of the limb, with coldness and want of arterial pulsation in the parts below. If it be the/enioro/, amputation will most probably be required, because the vein may have been injured also ; if any other (the anterior or posterior tibial, for instance), it may be secured ; provided that there is no other valid cause for am- putation, and that the required incision will not too much aggravate the injury to the soft parts. But, cceteris paribus, this accident is always an additional reason for amputation, if there be other circum- stances rendering it probably expedient. If amputation be decided on, it must be primary; that is, per- formed before the accession of fever and inflammation, as was observed in the chapter on Gun-shot Wounds. Tre.at.ment.—If it be determined to save tlie limb, it must first be placed in a proper position, and then the fracture must be reduced.