SCIRRHUS. 106 \ viscora become contaminated, and the patient sinks from the constant pain and irritation. C0N.STITOTIONAL Symptoms.—From the first there is a state of ill health which cannot be solely attributed to the local disease, and which is denominated the cancerous cacheada. The patient is languid, de- pressed, and emaciated;—the complexion is leaden and sallow, the appetite bad, and digestion imperfect. As the disease advances, hectic is induced by the pain and exhaustion, and the patient suflfers perhaps from the co-existence of the disease in other organs. An extraor- dinary fragility of the bows, so that the femur might be broken by turning in bed, is by no means an uncommon phenomenon;—partly arising from atrophy, partly from scirrhous disease developed in them.* D1.A.GN0SIS.—The principal characteristics of scirrhus are, hardness, lancinating pain, the co-existence of the cancerous caclvexia, and the patient’s age. It has been proposed to puncture a doubtful tumour with an exploring needle so constructed as to bring away a small portion of the tissue, which may be examined with the microscope, to see whether it contains the cancer cells or not. If there is an open sore, a small portion can readily be removed for examination. Prognosis.—Although the destiny of a scirrhous tumour and of the patient are pretty certain, still the time in which the disease ma}’ prove destructive is most uncertain. So that if the patient is old—if the disease has lasted long, and has been slow in its progress—if the health is tolerable, and the cachexia not well marked—much comfort may be derived from the assurance, that, although the disease may be incurable, yet that life may be prolonged for many years, and the tumour possibly become quiescent, or undergo atrophy. Duration.—Scirrhus is slower in its progress than any other variety of malignant disease; for although it has been known to prove fatal in two months, yet it ma}' creep on for more than half a century. But in most cases from three to four years may be safely assumed as the period within which it destroys life. Causes.—Scirrhus may occur at any age, but it is very rare indeed under thirty; yet it has attacked girls under twenty. It most com- monly attacks the uterus, female breast, stomach, and skin. Women are more liable to it than males in the ratio of nearly three to one; and the greatest mortality amongst them occurs between the ages of thirty-five and fifty ; at the time when the generative function ceases, and the constitution undergoes its most critical change. Whether it is more likely to attack the married or the spinster, the barren or the fruitful, those who have suckled or those who have not, are points yet undetermined. The complexion most commonly attacked is the dark bilious. Blows or other injuries may act as exciting causes, and pro- duce it in a particular part;—but they cannot do so unless the consti- tutional tendency exists. * Salter in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xv.