LITHOTRITY. 532 Heurteloup); and it was from this that Heurteloup took the idea of tlie percuteur ; disimproviny it, however, by substituting the liam- mer for the screw. Mr. Fergusson prefers a kind of hand-rack and pinion, as a more convenient mechanical power than the screw. In order to prevent any clogging of the blades by the lodgment of frag- ments, the anterior blade is made open to receive the other within it. The operation is perfonned as follows. The patient is placed on a couch with his pelvis well raised, and his shoulders comfortably sup- ported ; the bladder is then emptied, and five or six ounces of tepid water injected with a proper catheter and syringe. The instrument, previously warmed and oiled, is slowly introduced and placed upon the stone—its blades are opened and made to grasp it between them—the handle is moved from side to side, to ascertain that no part of the bladder is entangled—and then it is depressed so as to lift the stone towards the neck of the bladder. The screw or handle is then slowlj' and cautiously turned backwards and forwards till the stone is crushed by its repeated impulses. Then the instrument should be withdrawn. After some days, when the irritation has subsided, the fragments must be seized and comminuted with the same instniment, or with a smaller one, or with one that has not the aperture in the anterior blade. Sometimes they may be removed with sundry scoops. But whether this can be done at one sitting or at many, must depend on the size of the stone, and the degree of inconvenience suffered by the patient. The experience of the last few years has added much to the fa- vourable opinion entertained by surgeons as to the effects of lithotrity, and its capability of being substituted for lithotomy. Yet, in order to avoid the most painful and disastrous results, the grcfitest care must be taken in selecting the cases which are submitted to this operation. Lithotrity is applicable, 1, when the stone is small, or of moderate size, say from an inch to one inch and a half in diameter. As a general rule the operation is not suitable when the stone is greater.