ULCERATION. 71 It will be noticed in its proper place, that bone and cartilage some- times ulcerate by disintegration, sometimes are removed by a peculiar solvent power of the textures in contact with them. Predisposing Causes.—The 7'issiuis most disposed to ulceration .are the skin, with the mucous and synovial membranes. From these it may spread to other subjacent tissues, which yield to it with vary- ing degrees of rapidity. The celhd.ar tissue ulcerates verj'' easily; but muscles, blood-vessels, and nerves, very slowly ; so that they often appear to be as it were dissected out in spreading sores, by the de- struction of the cellular tissue aroimd them. Tendons .and ligaments are also very slow to ulcerate ; but cartilage, bone, and the cornea are in certain constitutions extremely liable to it. The Constitutions most liable to ulceration, are those which are de- bilitated by intemperance or privations;—tainted with syphilis or scrofula ;—or broken down by the excessive use of mercury. The parts most disposed to it are those wliose circulation is most weak and Languid; such as the lower extremities; and more especially if the return of their venous blood bo in any way impeded by a vari- cose state of the veins. On this .account t.aU persons are much more frequently affected with ulcers of the legs than the short. Sir E. Home shows, on the authority of Dr. Young, that twenty-two out of one hundred and forty-five tall men, and only twenty-three out of two hundred and seventy-six short men, were discharged from a regiment in the West Indies in four years, on account of ulcers. Defect of nervous influence m.ay cause pimta to lose their vitality, .and ulcerate or mortify. Ulcers of the cornea have followed injury to the fifth, and ulcer.ation of the hand has followed injuries of the median nerve.* Adventitious tissues, such as fibrous and cancerous tumours, are par- ticularly liable, after a time, to lose their vitality and ulcerate. Exciting Causes.—In constitutions or p.arts predisposed to it, the slightest irritation may be sufficient to excite ulceration. In the healthy it may be produced hy the continuous .application of some irritant, so as gradually to exhaust the vital powers of the part;—such as conti- nued pressure; the'prescnce of irritating fluids, or depraved secretions. But it is not easy to e.xcite genuine spreading ulceration in the healthy, unless bj' some specific cause, such as the venereal poison. in London, .and tlio prepar.ations .accompanying it; also J. \V. E.arlo, Mod. Gaz. for 1835 ; C. Aston Key, Med. Cliir. Tian.s., vol. xviii. and xix. ; Copland, Diet. Pract. Med. ylrl. Indanunation ; Pearson's Principles of Surgery ; and p.articularly Wallace on the Venereal Disease, Loud. 183S, p. 47. Writers some- times confuse the absorption, which they pretend to l)0 the cause of ulceration, with the absorption of fluids from the surface of an ulcer. Tims the formation of bubo is sometimes alleged as a proof that chancre is caused by ulcerative absorption. If it were so, the bubo would come whilst the chancre is forming; instead of which, it seldom occurs till it is beginning to heal and to become more capable of imbibing its own poisonous secretions, and transmitting them into the veins and lymphatics. * See c.ases quoted by Paget from Swan, and Hilton. Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. iv. p. 1023.