CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 42 commenced in order to increase the secretions, and relieve the s5'stem of its superabundant material. Mercury, given in small doses at bed- time, with saline aperients in the morning, deserves to be mentioned first: Plummer’s pill, in doses of gr. v. everj' night, is an excellent form; but in severe and obstinate cases it may be necessary to ad- minister larger doses of the mercurj”^ so as to bring the system fully under its influence ; taking care however to desist at the least appear- ance of ptyalism, and maintain a gentle and continued, but not violent action. Next to mercury, tartar emetic, given in very small doses three or four times daily, F. 67, is most deserving of notice ; it is highly advantageous to combine it with mercur}', F. 68. (2.) But if the chronic inflammation occur in an enfeebled and irritable constitution (as when it succeeds an acute attack that has been too actively treated by bleeding and mercury), a nutritious and liberal diet must be adopted, wine and tonics (F. 1,2, 3, 9, &c.) should be administered in order to improve the digestion and vigour of the circulation ; irritation and pain must be allayed by sedatives , and opiates ; and the secretions of the bowels be maintained by the gentlest laxatives. (3.) If the tongue is furred and red at its tip and edges, and there are heartburn, flatulence, pain at the chest after meals, and other signs of a weak and irritated stomach, the diet should consist of the plainest and most easily digestible articles ; and small doses of alkalis (F. 77, 79) may be given after meals, whilst some tonic is given before them ; and the bowels may be kept open by the compound rhubarb pill. (4.) If the complexion and ej’e are sallow, .and the stools clay- coloured, a few doses of calomel or blue pill, at night, or F. 63, with morning aperients, and the nitro-muriatic acid, F. 22, are indicated. (5.) In all cases the condition of the urine should be inspected, to ascertain whether albumen, or blood discs,—indications of congestion or degeneration of the kidneys,—are present. In such cases, and in all others in which the skin is dry and harsh, it should be stimulated by exercise, by warm clothing, especially flannel, by the flesh brush or horse-hair gloves, and by an occasional ten minutes’ immersion in the hot bath ; 92°—98° Fah. (6.) In females the uterine system must be regulated by the exhi- bition of steel, aloes, galbanum, or other emmenagogues, if neces- saiy. (7.) In any case of intractable and unaccountable chronic inflam- mation, the surgeon should inquire whether the patient has ever had an attack of yout, or whether his immediate ancestors were subject to that malady, and especially whether he ever before suffered from any anomalous affections, which were relieved on the appearance of a fit of the gout. For there are very few obstinate chronic inflammations that may not be caused by gout lurking in the sj’stem; especially eruptions of the skin ; inflammation of the eyes, or of the fauces; in- cessant tickling cough ; irritation of the kidneys ; irritable bladder ;