DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. S4J time ulceration commences; or fungous growths sprout up; the dis- charge is fetid and irritating; the glands in the groin become affected, and the patient dies miserably. Trcutment.—As a prophylactic, the above-described operation for phymosis should always be performed, if required. As a curative measure, amputation of the affected organ is the only resom'ce, though, to use Dr.Walshe’s words, “ a singularly sorry one;” since all expe- rience shows that the disease generally soon returns in the stump, or in the inguinal glands. Operation.—The surgeon stretches out the penis with one hand, and cuts it off with one sweep of a bistoury; bleeding vessels are then to be tied, and cold to be applied, and after three or four days a piece of bougie is to be introduced into the orifice of the urethra, and to be retained there during the cicatrization. IV. Epispadias is a congenital malformation, consisting of an im- perfect closure of the urethra on its upper surface. Hypospadias is a similar deficiencj’ of the under surface. They sometimes may be re- lieved by paring the edges of the skin on each side of the fissure, and uniting it by suture, provided that the urethra is pervious to the end of the penis. An American surgeon has proposed to unite the edges of the fissure by cauterizing them with nitrate of silver, and then scraping off the black eschar ; by which means the surfaces are made raw without hamiorrhage or loss of substance. V. Tumours.—The natives of warm climates are liable to a sarco- matous growth of the cellular tissue of the penis and scrotum, forming an immense tumour in which those parts are completely buried. Poor Hoo Loo, the Chinese, had a tumour of this sort. Extirpation is the only cure, and if the tumour is very large, no attempt can be made to save the penis .and testicles. SECTION II. OF THE DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. I. Acute Inflammation of the testis (acute testitis, orchitis, hernia hiimnra/is) may be caused by local violence, but more frequently occurs in conjunction with gonorrhoea, through an extension of infl.ammation from the urethra. It is very liable to be induced if the patient in- - dulges in violent exercise and fermented liquors, or neglects to use a suspensory bandage while employing injections. ipmptoms.—The discharge from the urethra diminishes, .and the pa- tient soon complains of aching pain in the testis and cord, extending up to the loins, .and soon followed by great swelling, excruciating ten- demess, fever, and vomiting. The mucous membrane of the epidi- dymis is the part chiefly affected. The swelling depends upon an effusion of lym[)h and sprum into the tunica v.aginalis. Treatment.—Bleeding if the habit is very plethoric; the application of numerous leeelies, or the .abstraction of blood from some of the veins of the scrotum; opium at niglit to allay pain ; purgatives, especiall}' F. 40, followed b}'tartar emetic in doses of a quarter of a grain.