DISLOCATIONS OP THE MBS. 286 Styloid processes of tlie radius and ulna with the bones of the carpus. They are reduced hy simple extension.* VI. Dislocations of the Hand. — The os maynum and os cuneiforme are sometimes partially dislocated through relaxation of their ligaments, and form projections at the back of the hand, w'hich must not be mistaken for ganglia. Mr. Fergusson has also known the os pisiforme dislocated by the action of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. Treatment.—Cold affusion, friction, and mechanical support. Dislocations of the thumb, fiTiyers, and toes, are difficult of reduction in consequence of the strength and tightness of their lateral ligaments, and the small size of the part from which extension can be made. A firm hold may be obtained by means of a piece of tape fastened with the knot called the clove hitch, represented in this figure. But it is a good plan to place a part of the tape round the head of the dislocated bone, so as to pull it straight forwards into its place. Extension should be made towards the palm, so as to relax the flexor muscles. But “ before the reduction has been effected,” says Mr. Liston, “ it has been in some cases even found necessarj' to divide one of the ligaments; the external is most easily reached ; it is cut across by introducing a narrow-bladed and lancet-pointed knife through the skin at some distance, and directing its edge against the resisting part.” In compound dislocation of the first phalanx of the thumb on the metacarpal bone, the head of the phalanx should be sawn off, before attempting reduction ; and in compound dislocation of the second phalanx, it is better to saw off the head of the first. VII. Dislocations of the Ribs.—The costal cartilages may be torn from the extremity of the ribs, or from the sternum;—and the posterior extremity of the ribs, may be dislocated from the spine bj' * Pupuytren taught that these dislocations are extremely rare, or, in fact, almost impossihie; and that fractures of the lower extremity of the radius are generally mistaken for them. Hut the experience of English surgeons shows that real dislocation, without any fracture, is not hy any means uncommon. Soe a very carefully reported case in the Lond. Jlcd. Gaz., June 17th, 1843.