TREATMENT OP WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 299 side of the limb (as if the femoral is pierced by a wound at the back of the thigh), a bougie may be passed in, as before, as a guide for the incisions, but the operator may lay the vessel bare at the side where it is most easily accessible.* 13. Torsion is performed by drawing out the vessel, fixing it by a pair of forceps a quarter of an inch from the end, and then twisting the end round and round till it will not untwist itself. There is no English authority for applying this method to largo arteries, but it may be useful enough when many minor vessels bleed after the extir- pation of a tumour. .S. Pressure is a means of suppressing haemorrhage that may be resorted to either when the ligature is deemed unnecessary, or when it cannot be applied. Thus it is applicable to wounded arteries of small size situated immediately over bones; as the temporal; or to arteries that cannot be tied because they lie very deeply; as the external caro- tid in the parotid gland ; or to arteries tliat are so diseased that a ligature will not hold. The pressure must be confined as much as pos- sible to the bleeding orifice, and should be eft'ectcd by a graduated compress; t. e., one composed of several pieces graduallj" decreasing in size, the smallest being on the wound. It is also a good plan to apply pressure to the course of the trunk, above the wound. ^Moreover, when pressure is to be relied upon, the whole limb, including the fingers or toes, should be accurately bandaged from its extremity, in order to diminish its entire circulation, and it should be placed in a raised position. When the palmar arch is wounded, one compress may be placed on the wound,,and another on the back of the hand ; a paper knife or strong slip of wood may then be laid on each compress transversely across the hand, and their ends be firmly tied together. 4. Cold is applicable to cases of bleeding from numerous small vessels. If there is a general oozing from a stump after amputation, a cloth dipped in cold water may be twisted over the face of it. Ilaj- morrhages from the vagina and rectum may sometimes be checked by dilating them with the speculum and exposing them to the cold air. 5. Styptics are of various kinds. 1. Some of them check limmor- rhage by opposing a mechanical obstacle to the exit of blood ; as the agaric, and other porous substances which entangle it ; 2, others act by coagulating the blood; or 3, by causing contraction of the bleeding vessels ; or 4, by exciting the adhesive inflammation and formation of granulations. Ihe tinct. ferri mur.; a saturated solution of alum ; turpentine, creosote, the nitrate of silver, and the matico leaf, arc the best. They are applicable to the same cases as cold and pressure; that is, when the bleeding vessels are very numerous and small. The actual cautery, which is the most potent styptic of all, has two opera- tions. If the iron be red hot, it stops bleeding mechanically by burn- * Guthrie on Diseases anti Injuries of Arteries, p. 254; Lond. 1830. Lectures in Lancet, 1849, vol. i.