ANEUIUSM. 306 the internal and middle coats of the artery at the site of some sethero- matous spot, after which the pressure of the blood dilates the external or cellular coat into a pouch. This mode of origin is evident from the distinct, rounded, circumscribed opening by which most aneurisms com- municate with the artery. But it may also commence by a dilatation of all three of the tunics at some diseased spot. The latter is the opinion of Hodgson. Scarpa, however, asserts “ that there is only one form of this disease ; that, namely, caused by a rupture of the proper coats of the artery, and an effusion of arterial blood into the cellular sheath which surrounds the ruptured artery.” * Sometimes it com- mences by the blood finding its way into small cysts or abscesses that are developed between the coats of the artery. Sometimes again, as in a case that happened to Mr. Liston, an aneurism commences by an artery ulcerating and opening into a contiguous abscess, the sac of which becomes the sac of the aneurism. Let the aneurism, however, commence as it may, it graduall}' dilates under the constant pressure of the heart’s impulse. It soon becomes lined with coagula, deposited in distinct concentric laminae, of which the outer ones are the palest and firmest; and whether it was originally formed or not of all the three tunics, certain it is, that the two internal ones soon waste :ind disappear. S^n)pio7)is.—If an aneurism be seated in the neck or limbs, it ap- pears as a tumour in the course of an artery, and pulsating with it. If it be small, and not filled with coagulum, pressure on the artery above will render it flaccid, so that it maj' be emptied by pressure; and the blood returns into it afterwards with a peculiar vibratory thrill or bruissument. The patient will very often say that it com- menced after some violent strain, when something appeared to give way. The first thing usually felt is a pulsation, then a tumour ; not painful at first, but gradually becoming excessively so from its pressure as it enlarges.+ The neuralgic pain caused by the stretching of nerves, by an increasing aneurism, is often most excruciating. In the chest, aneurism will be principally known by an unnatural pulsation felt by the patient, and detectable by the stethoscope ; together with symp- toms of disordered circulation and respiration. In the abdomen, an aneurismal tumour may be felt through the parietes. Diagnosis.—Tumours situated over arteries, mid receiving pulsa- tion from them, may be distinguished from aneurism by noticing, 1 st. That they do not pulsate at first, when they are small; whereas aneurisms do so from their earliest formation. ‘2ndly, That a tumour may often be lifted up from the artery, and that then it will cease to pulsate. 3rdly, That aneurisms are generally soft at first, and become hard subsequently ; tumours are generally the reverse. Hhly, That tumours cannot he einpticd hgpressure ; and that no alteration is made in their consistence by compressing the artery above. 5thly, Enlarged * Scarpa on Aneurism, by Wisli.art, Edin. 1808, p. 113. t C. Hawkins, Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. v. p. 317.