37 ACUTE INFLAMMATION. flamrnatory, it must be treated by other measures than blood-letting. But the junior practitioner must bear in mind that he may occasionally meet with some thin, bloodless patients, whom it would be very injurious to bleed, but who nevertheless, from some peculiarity of constitution, do not faint, even though bled to excess. Jieactioji.—After the depressing effects of bleeding there naturally ensues a degree of reaction ; the pulse rising in frequency, and the local pain returning; and this reaction will be the greater if the venesection has been carried to the extent of producing full syncope;—hence the importance of stopping short of this point. This reaction is, if possi- Ijle, to be prevented by the sedatives, which we shall mention pre- sently ; but if, notwithstanding, well-marked inflammatory symptoms return, the bleeding must be repeated,—provided that the strength permit. Indications for Bleeding.—But as venesection is not to be resorted to indiscriminately in every case of acute inflammation, a few words must be added on the principles that regidate its employment. And there are three things to be considered; viz. 1st, the patient’s strength, and state of constitution ; 2ndly, the part affected ; 3rdly, the nature and amount of the injury or exciting cause which has pro- duced the disease. (1.) With regard to the state of the constitution : bleeding is most required, and best borne, when the temperament is sanguine, or that mixture of the sanguine and phlegmatic termed rastic;—when the muscles are large and firm;—when the blood-making powers are vigorous and the circulation strong, as indicated by redness of the face and lips, and by a full, hard, and frequent pulse. On the other hand, it will be borne worse when the muscles are large .and flabby, and the pulse habitu.ally open, soft, and full. And it will be borne worst of all when the complexion is sickly and p.ale,—the pulse quick, small, and feeble,—the lips, conjunctiva, and tongue p.ale. And if there should h.appcn to be a state of passive dilatation and weakness of the heart, syncope would most likely be instantly fatal;—and if there should be any org.anic disease which impedes the formation of blood, its loss is liable to be followed by irrecover.able sinking .and exhaustion. Fat peojda generally bear bleeding worse, and in fact contain less blood, in proportion to their bulk, than those of a spare, leah h.abit and rigid fibre. The propriety of a second hleedmg mw&i in a great measure be deter- mined bj'the effect which the first li.as had on the pulse; for if that be more frequent and quick, or more sharp and jerking, instead of slower and softer, it would seem that the bleeding had diminished the strength more than it had reduced the disease. The state of the blood must also bo regardeil; for if the surface of the coagulum be flat, and its consistence loose, it is a sign that the vital powers are depressed ; that further bleeding will bo injurious; and that the case must be committed to the other antiphlogistic powers. (2.) Respecting the/iarf affected, it may be observed, that the ne-