9 IRRITATIVE FEVER. the blood under certain conditions, contains an increased quantity of fibrine; and that the red globules have a greatly increased attraction for each other, so that they form themselves quickly into a sponge-work, which quickly contracts, and sinks towards the bottom of the vessel, squeezing out some of the liquor san</tiinis from its meshes, before the latter has separated into fibrine and serum. This liquor san- guinis, so separated from the globules, forms the bluish white layer which is well known to appear on the surface of inflamed blood very soon after it is drawn. And the fibrine which it contains being deposited on the surface of the sponge-work formed by the globules constitutes the butfy coat. In order to show the buff}’' coat, the blood ought to be drawn quickly, in a full stream, into a deep vessel, in an apartment, the temperature of which is tolerably high. If drawn in a small trickling stream, into a flat and shallow basin, in the cold, the buft' will not show itself. We must observe, in conclusion, that the buffy coat is not to be considered as an invariable evidence of inflammation. For, in the first place, it may be present when there is no inflammation;—as in pregnant women; in the plethoric; in persons accustomed to be peri- odically bled, or who are habitually e.vposed to the night air.* Still less is it per se to be considered a warrant for bleeding; for in rheumatism it persists to the last, though the patient’s veins be drained of blood. Neither dues its absence prove that there is no inflammation going on; for it ma}'' be entirel}' absent in certain inflammations of a low type, and in the inflammations arising from certain morbid poisons, its glanders, or in the course of tj’phus fever, when the blood, having lost its vital qualities, scarcely coagulates at all. Moreover a very great density of the blood, such as e.xists at the commencement of many acute inflammations of a sthenic type, may pre- vent the butfy coat from appearing, till that density has been reduced by bleeding. Thus it may happen that the first teaenpful drawn maj' display no buff, whilst the second may display it in abundance.f SECTIO.V III.— OF IRRITATIVE FEVER. Genial Description.—The term Irritative Fever seems to be conventionally assigned to a form of violent and dangerous constitu- * Samuel Cooper. First Fines of Surgeiy. t Vide Hewson, Experimental Emiuiry into the Ulood, Loml. 1772, chap. ii. pp. 31, et .seq. Palmer’s edition of Hunter, vol. iii. p. ;W, tioh’. Copland’.s Hict! Pract. Med. Art. Blood;'Thackrali, C. T. on tlie Blood, Loud. 1831; IJavy's Experimental Researclies, vol. i. Lord. 183!); ,Muller’.s Physiology by Baly, 2nd ed. vol. i.; Andral, Arch. Heu. de Meil. 1810, and Brit, and For. .Med. Kev. vol. xi. p. 213; T. 'Wharton .lone.s, Brit, and For. .Med. Bev. Oct. 1812. Some ob- servations of -Mr. Gulliver, ipmted in Hanking'.s llalf-vearly Abstract, vol. i. p 251; Garrod's Lectures in Lancet, 1818. vol. ii. p. 113; and A. II. llassall’s Microscopic .Anatomy, vol. i. p. 10.