585 AMPUTATION OP THE LEG. assistant supporting it at the .ankle, .and another holding it at the knee and drawing up the skin, the surgeon (standing on the inner side for the right leg, and vice versa) makes a circular incision through the skin, four inches below the tuberosity of the tibi.a. The integu- ments are next to be dissected up for two inches, and turned b.ack ; .and the muscles are to be divided down to the bone by a second circular incision. Then a long slender double-edged knife, called a c.atline, is passed between the bones to divide the interosseous ligament and muscles, and both bones are sawn through together, the flesh being protected by a retr.actor, which should have three tails. The spine of the tibia, if it projects much, m.ay be removed with a fine saw or bone nippers, and care should be taken not to leave the fibula longer than the tibia, or it will give much trouble. The .anterior and posterior tibial and peronae.al .arteries, .and .any others requiring it, being tied, the stump is to be treated as directed .after .amputation of the thigh. The integuments should be put together, so as to make a perpendicular line of junction. 2. But it is agreed on .all sides that the flap operation is by far the best for this situation, and the easiest way of performing it is as follows The surgeon passes his knife horizontally behind both bones at the level of an inch below the head of the fibula, .and cuts down- wards and forwards, so as to make a flap of tiie posterior muscles about four or five inches long. A semi-lunar incision, with the con- vexity downwards, is then made .across the front of the limb, the skin is slightly turned back, the p.arts between the liones are divided, and the bones are sawn as before. But the manner in which Mr. Fer- gusson performs this .amputation renders it by far the most elegant and expeditious operation which the author ever witnessed, lie first places the heel of the knife on the side of the limb farthest from him, and draws it across the front of the limb, cutting a scmi-lnnar flap of skin ; when its point has arrived at the opposite side, it is at once