DISEASES OP THE BLADDER. 51G Symptoms.—The bladder irritable, micturition very frequent and painful, the urine loaded with mucus (or rather pus, rendered viscid by the alkaline state of the urine), which is sometimes tinged with blood, sometimes yellowish and puriform, but more generally grayish, streaked with white, highly alkaline, and excessively viscid, so as to stick to the bottom of the chamber pot when turned upside doum. In the early stages there is but little mucus, and the urine may remain acid; but as the disease advances, the quantity of mucus becomes enormous, and the urine is voided of a brownish hue, and of a most offensive ammoniacal odour. Moreover, it may clog the urethra, and cause retention of urine; a kind of retention difficult to manage, because the mucus clogs up the eyes of the catheter. In this stage there is very frequent desire to make water, and constant pain above the pubes. In general, the mucus contains phosphate of lime, which may be seen in it in white streaks, and which is apt to collect and form a stone in the bladder. Perhaps the mucous membrane of the bladder may ulcerate, and after death it may be found as cleanlj' dis- sected from the muscular coat, as if it had been done with a knife. This will be attended with an intense aggravation of the pain in mic- turition, and with a dark colour of the urine; owing to the admix- ture of a little blood which exudes from the ulcerating surface, and which, after the urine is passed, sinks to the bottom like coffee grounds. But more frequently the bladder throws out flakes of lymph, w'hich become encrusted with patches of phosphate of lime. Moreover, the bladder, by the constant exercise of its muscles in straining, becomes hypertrophied and exceedingly thick ; and portions of its mucous membrane are apt to be forced between the intervals of its muscular fibres, and foiTn pouches which are soon filled with mucus, or with phosphatic calculi. Finally, disease of the kidneys ensues, and the patient dies. Treatment.—In the first place, if there is a stricture, or enlarged prostate or stone in the bladder, proper measures should be taken for their removal or relief. In the next place, if the symptoms are at aU severe, the patient should keep himself in the recumbent position as much as possible, with the pelvis elevated. Thirdly, if there is at any time a great aggravation of pain, and the strength is pretty good, a few ounces of blood may be taken by cupping on the sacrum or peri- naeum; but, as a general rule, all lowering measures are injurious. Stimulating or opiate plasters to the sacrum are sometimes of use. Pain and irritation are to be allayed by the hip-bath, and by eneinata or suppositories of opium. The bowels should be kept properly open by mild aperients, such as castor oil or rhubarb; but 'harsh purgatives are inexpedient. The diet should consist of boiled mutton, white fish, rice, arrow-root, and other substances that are nutritious, easily digestible, and not apt to tuni sour; with cold weak brandy and water, or gin and water, or sound sherrj'. Mercury and alkalis are of course, as a general rule, inexpedient; yet, if the urine is still acid (not being yet made alkaline by the mucus) and the strength is good, small doses