232 NON-UNION OF FRACTURE. very justly observes, the bandage should not be put on so tightly as to impede the generjil circulation of the limb. 2ndlJ^ Should this not succeed, after a fair trial of six weeks or two months, means must be adopted to excite the adhesive inflammation around the fracture. This may be done by rubbing one end of the bone roughly against the other ; or by making the patient walk on the limb, which must be first well supported with splints ; and then the apparatus should be again firmly applied for six or eight weeks.* If this also fail, the next thing to be tried is a seton ; which maj"^ be passed through the limb, between the fractured ends ; although it is A more safe, and quite as effectual to pass it through the flesh close to the fracture. If, however, there is any difficulty in doing this, the surgeon may cut down on the fracture, by the subcutaneous method, and scarify the ends of the bones by a long narrow knife ; or he may pass in a probe or iron wire between the broken extremities, and allow it to remain a week or ten daj-^s, after which the limb should be put upimmoveably in splints. If these measures also fail, the last re- source is to cut down on the fracture, and saw or shave off the ends of the bone ;—or sometimes it is found that a little piece of muscle is wedged between them, which must be removed ; but this is a most severe and dangerous operation, and not to be resorted to without ab- solute necessity. 3rdly. Care should be taken to detect and remedy any constitu- tional disorder to which the want of union can be attributed. Debility must be counteracted by tonics, nutritive food, and stimulants. Mr. Fergusson relates a case of fractured thigh in which no callus was formed for three weeks, until the patient was allowed a reasonable quantity of whisk*y, to which he had been previously accustomed ; and Sir B. Brodie relates similar instances. It will be worth while to administer lime plentifully, in the form of liquor calcis with sarsa- parilla, F. 84 ; or two ounces of lime-water may be given thrice a day, with an equal quantity of milk ; or thirty drops of a concentrated solution of chloride of calcium twice a-day in water.f Mercury may be given if there is a syphilitic taint; and Mr. B. Cooper gives a case of non-union, in which, although the general health appeared V perfectly good, ■ mercury given to ptyalism effected a cure after the seton had failed. J A few instances are known in which the callus, after um'on was completed, inflamed and became absorbed, so that the frac- ture was disunited again. Leeches and blisters to the part proved effectual remedies. § A recent callus is also sometimes absorbed • Amesbury, Syllabus of Lectures on Fractures. &c., with plates of ap- paratus. f Case of comininuted fracture of humerus, treated successfully by resection of tho ends of the bones, by Kennett Hill; quoted in Banking, vol. x. p. 138, from British Am. Journal, April 1849. X Vide Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations and Fractures, p. 568 ; Brodie, in Med. Gaz. vol. xiii.; and Fergusson’a Practical Surgery, p. 103. § James, Address in Prov. Med. Trans. 1840.