WOUNDS OP ARTERIES. 2S6 plugged with congula. Thus then the bleeding is checked for a time. But shortly the adhesive inflammation is set up; a yellowish green, tough lymph is effused, and fills up the contracted orifice of the vessel; that part of the arterj' which intervenes between the wound and the nearest branch, gradually contracts in the shape of the neck of a champagne bottle; the blood coagulates within it, adheres to its in- ternal surface, and becomes organized into a cellulo-fibrous tissue; and, finally, the impervious portion of the artery degenerates into a fibrous cord, and is gradually absorbed. It must be eindent that a puncture or partial division of an artery, is much more dangerous than complete division ; because the two principal natural means of arresting haemorrhage, name]}', the con- traction and retraction, 0X0 prevented; and the bleeding can only be obstructed by the coagulated blood in the wound. Under these cir- cumstances, three things may happen. In the first place, the aperture, if longitudinal or very small, may in favourable cases be closed by the adhesive inflammation, the artery remaining pervious. The uniting lymph, however, is very liable to be dilated into a false aneurism. Or, secondly, the channel of the artery may be obliterated by lymph or coagulated blood. Or, thirdly, bleeding may recur perpetually, till the undivided part of the vessel ulcerates, or is divided by art. From these details may easily be gathered the reason why, when a small artery has been partially divided (as the temporal in arteri- otomy), it is judicious to divide it completely. When an artery is torn across, it contracts almost immediately, and becomes quite impervious, so that an ann or leg may be tom off by a shot or by machinery, without any loss of blood from the axillary or tibial arteries. For this reason, there is no hiemorrhage Irom the um- bilical cord of young animals, which is either torn or bitten through by the mother. Lastly, it will be readily seen that division of arteries which are diseased, or which are situated in condensed and inflamed tissues, so that they cannot contract or retract, will be followed by profuse bleeding. Treatment The first indication is to stop the flow of blood, until measures can be adopted for arresting it permanently. For this purpose, if the wound is a small one, and there is bone underneath, as in the hand, forearm, or temple, the surgeon may make firm pressure on it with his thumb or finger:—if the wound is wide and deep, he should poke his fore-finger into it, wipe aw'ay all clots, and press with the point of the finger on the exact spot the blood issues from, or he may seize the bleeding orifice with his finger and thumb; in other cases, the blood may be checked by pressing the trunk of the artery above, against a bone ; or by applying the tourniquet; * or in default of that by passing a handkerchief round the limb, and twisting it tightly with a stick. 1\\o permaneiit measures oxo ligature—torsion —pressure—cold, and styptics. ♦ The tourniquet is described in the chapter on Amputations.