STUMPS. 594 that the whole of the bones of the foot are taken awaj'; that the articu- lar surface of the tibia and both malleoli are cut off smoothly ; but that the skin of the heel is preserved, as the best and most natural cushion for the stump to rest upon. Mr. Syrae makes one curved incision across the instep from one malleolus to the other; and carries a second across the sole of the foot. The flaps are dissected from the subjacent parts, which is easily effected except just at the heel; the astragalus and os calcis, with the rest of the foot, are removed, and the projec- tions of the malleolar processes cut off with forceps. If the ankle-joint itself is diseased, a thin slice of the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula may be removed with a saw. The thick skin of the heel is then brought up to cover the ends of the bones, and is retained by sutures. It appears useful sometimes to make a puncture through the integuments of the heel, to let the discharge escape freely. Mr. Fer- gusson, finding that the skin left is more than required, and that it is apt to slough, carries his incision in the line represented in the pre- ceding figure, so as to abridge the lower flap.* Wakley's Operation.— The principle is a good one, that no more of the body should be removed than is absolutely requisite for the re- moval of disease, and guided by this principle, Mr. T. Wakley in one case of diseased ankle-joint, removed the diseased bones onl}', that is, the os calcis, astragalus, and malleolar processes of the tibia and fibula, with a small portion of the integuments of the heel, without removing the rest of the foot, as in Syme’s operation. Further experience is required before it can be stated whether the anterior part of the foot thus preserved, will be of much use ; but at all events the theory of sacrificing no part of the body that can be saved, is a sound one.+ Stumps, AJfections of.—1. Secondary haemorrhage may occur under the same circumstances as after other wounds, and requires no obser- vations distinct from those made at pages 127 and 300. 2. Erysipelas and phlebitis have also been fully treated of else- where ; one of them may be suspected to be coming on if the patient, a few days after amputation, is seized with a violent shivering. 3. It •sometimes happens that the flesh shrinks away from the end of tlie bone, which becomes white and dry, and finally exfoliates. The nitric acid lotion is the best application. 4. Protrusion of the bone is a very awkward circumstance. It not only greatly retards the healing of the stump, but the cicatrix when formed is thin, red, constantly liable to ulcerate, and unable to bear the least pressure or friction. The cause of the conical stump, as it is technically called, is generally a want of skin and muscle sufficient to cover the end of the bone. Sometimes, however, it arises from spas- modic retraction of the muscles, especially if they have not been pro- perly supported by bandages during the cure. The remedy is simple; the bone must be shortened. This may be done in slight cases by * Lancet, 1850, vol. i. p. 217. t For a report, drawings, kc. vide Liuicet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 5.