•248 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. of prominence of the trochanter; but there was no shortening, and the limb could be turned freely outwards, which motion is highly painful after fracture of the neck of the femur. In a case reported by Dr. George D. Gibbs of Montreal, in which the right side of the pelvis was literally smashed, the leg was everted and shortened an inch and a half; the trochanter nearer the anterior superior spinous process than on the sound side. On rotating the limb, the right trochanter appeared to move in the segment of a smaller circle than the left, and crepitus was distinctly felt in the joint. The diagnosis will be aided by the crepitus felt on applying the stethoscope to the ilium, and by e.xamination per anum. It very rarely happens that the acetabulum and cervix femoris are both fractured. The patient must be kept on a fracture-bed. One of Mr. Earle’s cases was cured in eight weeks. Dr. Gibbs’s in sixteen.* Fracture of the os coccygis, or of the lower extremitj' of the sacrum, may be caused by violent kicks or falls;—the former maj"^ occur during partimition to women who have children after the coccyx is united to the sacrum. The loose portions must be replaced by introducing the finger within the rectum. The patient should keep in bed, and the bowels must be kept relaxed, so that no disturbance may be occasioned by hard stools. XI. Fractures of the Femur present many varieties, which must be carefully studied ; because, as Pott observes, “ they so often lame the patient and dis- grace the surgeon.” We must, therefore, treat sepa- rately, 1. of fracture of the neck of the femur in- ternal to the capsular liga- ment; 2. of fracture of that part external to the capsu- lar ligament; 3. of oblique fracture through the great trochanter ; 4. of fracture separating the epiphysis of the trochanter major; 5. of fracture just below the trochanter; 6. of the shaft; 7. of the cond3des. (1.) Fracture of tlie cer- vix femoris internal to the capsule is generallj' caused by indirect violence ; that is, bj’’ a slight force acting on the lower extremity of the limb, as happens in slipping off the curb- stone ; sometimes, however, it is produced by falls or blows on the hip. * British American Jomual, Sept. 1849.