41 CnRONIC INFLAMMATION. I that sense of irritation in the organic nerves which he considers as the ipoint de depart in inflammation. He has contrived an appiu'atus for (conveying steam to any part of the body, which aflords an excellent I means of applying heat and moisture. It consists of a tube of wool- I len cloth, three feet long, twelve inches wide, and fitted with hoops of whalebone to keep it open ; one end of it is applied to the part which 1 it is desired to foment, the other is tied round the neck of a tin boiler in which the steam is generated. 4. Stimulants, and astringent solutions, are of great service in in- flammation of mucous membranes, by decomposing and washing away their irritating secretions, and inducing contraction of the capillaries. Counter-irritants. Blisters ai-e the best form of counter-irritants in recent inflammation ; but they should never be applied too near the seat of an acute disease, .and never till its activitj' has been subdued bj' previous mitiphlogistic measures. CHAPTER V. OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. Definition.—Inflammation is said to be chronic when it is slow in its progress, and tends to last long, or even indefinitely. Causes.—Its causes may be local or constitutional. Thus it may in the healthiest subjects be caused by any slight and continued irri- tant ;—or it may be the sequel of acute inflammation, the vessels being left dilated, weak, and irritable. But more frequently it is the local manifestation of some constitutional disorder, such as general debilitj’, with a tendency to local congestion,—or over-stimulation and plethoraj^or disorder of some important organ, as of the stomach or liver,—or impurity of the blood. Treatment.—The indications are, to remove all constitutional dis- order, to allay local irritation, and to restore the tone of the distended vessels. Constitutional Treatment. On this part of the subject, our space forbids us to do more than make a few remarks on the most ob- vious forms of constitutional derangement, which accompany chronic inflammation, and on the remedies that are known by experience to be most useful as alteratives. (1.) If the patient is bloated and plethoric, with rod lips and con- junctiva, and a full hard pulse, and indulges freely in stimulating food and drink, and has unimpaired digestive organs, so that blood is con- stantly foiTued in too great abundance, the diet must be lowered and restricted chiefly to fish and vegetables ; free exercise should be taken in tlie air ; the bowels should be actively purged with calomel and black draught; and then a course of alterative medicine should be