301 DIFFUSED AND TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. •metit arc described in the cliapters on Haemorrhage, and on Gunshot Wounds. The surgeon must recollect its liability to occur in the female from the menstrual nisus. 3. Hceraorrhage may occur from slou(/Iiin<j or from ulceration of an artery ; or from impeifect closure of an artery when a ligature separates; through the influence of some diseased state of the artery, or of the constitution, which has pre- vented the healthy process of adliesion ; and this form of hemor- rhage will be more likely to occur, if the ligature was coarse, thick, and ill-applied, so as to bruise the internal coats instead of cutting them evenly; or if the artery was much disturbed in its sheath during the operation. In these cases the only remedy is to cut down upon and tie the bleeding orifice ; or if that cannot be done, or the vessel be too diseased to hold the ligature, carefulh" graduated pressure and styptics may be tried. A small button of lint, imbued with solution of gallic acid, or of sulphate of copper, may be put on the bleeding point (or the latter may bo touched with a black-hot iron first), over that a larger compress, and so on, till firm pressure can be produced. Should all these measures fail, the trunk must be tied above at the nearest point to the wound that is possible. 4. Haemorrhage is apt to come from the lower orifice of a divided artery, if only the upper one has been tied. In this case the blood wells out in a continuous stream, but not with the arterial sallus ; and it is not quite so florid as that which comes from the other end. 5. Ilmmorrliage is very likely to occur if the operation for aneurism is applied to a wound of an artery , that is, if the vessel be tied at a distance above instead of at the wounded parts.* For these two cases the ligature is the remedy. Diffused and Traumatic Aneurism.— When an artery has been lacerated, by a broken bone for instance, without a wound of the skin ; or when an artery has been stabbed, and the wound in the skin has healed, but that in the vessel remains open, so that the blood escapes into the cellular tissue, a diffused aneurism is said to be formed. But this term is not at all descriptive of the real state of things, and is very liable to lead the young practitioner into the error, of treating the wise as if it were a real aneurism. The symptoms are, a dark-coloured swelling of the limb ; perhaps fluctuating; perhaps j'ielding some de- gree of pulsatory tlirill, if the aperture in the artery is largo ; and most probably, if a large artery is w'ounded, there will be coldness, numbness, absence of pulsation, and tendency to gangrene in the parts below. This case must not be treated as if it were an aneurism, by a ligature high up: but the main artery being compressed with the fingers, the swelling must be laid open, the blood removed, and the wounded part of the artery secured by two ligatures, one immediately above, the other just below it. The false or traumatic aneurism is said to e.xist, wlien the lymph, by which a puncture in an artery has been united, yields to the jiressure * Guthrie, op. cit. p. 24S.