DISEASES OF THE BONES. •21G does not yield eitlier chondrine, or the gelatine of bone.”* The arti- cular extremities of the bones are often disproportionately large. Of course they are unable to support the weight of the body, without bending and producing deformity. In moderate cases, the ankles only may be a little sunk, or the shins bent, or the spine curved; but in aggravated cases the physiognomy and general appearance are very peculiar. The stature is stunted; the head large, with a protuberant forehead ; but the face is small and triangular, with a very sharp- peaked chin, and projecting teeth; the chest naiTow and prominent in front, whence the vulgar term pigeon-breasted ;—the spine variously curved; the pelvis small; the promontory of the sacrum and acetabula pressed together, rendering the cavity perilously small for child-bearing; and the limbs crooked, their natural curves being increased. This disorder generally attacks the children of the poor from the second to the tenth or twelfth year of their age. After pubert}', it is astonishing how firm the bones become, and, in particular, how they are strength- ened by strong ridges developed on their concave sides. Treatment.—The health must be invigorated by pure air, animal [ food, and the other measures prescribed for scrofula. When a child 'iwith crooked legs is brought to the surgeon, he should ascertain Whether the deformity arises from relaxation of the joints merely—the bones remaining straight—or from crookedness of the bones them- Velves. For the knees and ankles may be greatly bent inwards from 'the former cause, but wiU become straight of themselves when the health becomes stronger; especially if salt bathing and frictions are used to the legs and back. But if the tibia or femur are actually bent, the surgeon must take care not to tell_tlie parents that the child will grow out of it; for there is no evidence that a bone which has once yielded, can ever recover its primitive shape spontaneously. Therefore some mechanical contrivances should be used, in order both to straighten the bent bones, and to keep them so till they are strong enough to bear the weight of the body'; and a pair of simple wooden splints, well padded, and applied with some degree of tightness, from the top of the thigh to the foot, seem to answer every useful purpose, and the child soon le.ams to walk about in them with his knee str.aight. They should of course be taken off once daily for a good washing and rubbing.t III. Mollities Ossium {Malaoosteon) is an extraordinary dis- ease, generally, but not invariably, affecting elderly females, in which the bones become softened and brittle, and lose their earthy consti- tuents. In the very first stage, the affected bones are somewhat softened and extremely vascular. As the disease advances they be- come somewhat thickened, and so soft as to be easily cut with a knife. On a section being made, the osseous tissue is found nearly absorbed, a mere shell being left, which in most cases is filled with ‘‘ a dark • Stanley, op. cit. p. 218. t See Bishop on Deformities, Lancet for 1846, vol. i.