G15 CHLOROFORM. lio-.vever, very transitory, and soon passes into the next, if the inhala- tion be prolonged, or into the first, if it be discontinued. In the Hard degree there is a cessation of all voluntary motion and mental operation; the pupils are contracted, and the eye turned upwards as in sleep ; sometimes a few of the muscles, especially of the jaws, become rigid, but relax if the inhalation be continued; the pa- tient too may wince under the knife, if the operator begins a trifle too soon, but is quite unconscious of pain. The/b«W/( degree approaches the condition known as coma; it is marked by general insensibility, and tendency of the pupil to dilate. In the fifth degree, the reflex function of that part of the nervous sj’stem which presides over respiration is abolished, breathing becomes irregular, and death ensues.* Dose.—In speaking of the quantity or dose of chloroform that it is safe to administer, it must be remembered that it is not the mere quantity inhaled, without reference to time, but the quantity present in the blood in a given time, which is to be regarded. Patients may be kept under its influence a long time, and thus may inhale a large quan- tity with safety; but even a small quantity too rapidly inhaled and insufficiently diluted with air may produce a dangerous degree of nar- cotism. When we hear the dose of chloroform estimated by drachms, and are told of a patient who consumed thirty-two ounces in the twenty- four hours, we must not forget that it is the actual quantity present in a given time in the blood, and its effects on the sensibility and re- spiration that are to be the real guides as to the safety or danger of the quantity administered, and not mere quantity by measure. Ac- cording to Dr. Snow, whose patient and accurate investigations of the subject are above all praise, about twelve minims of chloroform circu- lating in the blood of an adult produce the second degree of narcotism, eighteen minims the third degree, in which operations are performed, twenty-four minims the fourth degree, in which there is complete re- laxation with insensibility ; a little more than thirty suffice to arrest respiration, and thirty-six or thirty-seven to stop the action of the heart. These numbers refer to the quantity actually circulating in the blood at a given time. It is necessary also to bear in mind, that when a patient is inhaling air highly charged with chloroform, the narcotic effects continue to increase, as Dr. Snow has pointed out, for twenty seconds, after the inhalation is discontinued ; owing to the absorption of the vapour remaining in the lungs. Mode of Administration,—The first question that arises is shall the chloroform be administered with, or without apparatus ? No doubt either method is safe in competent hands, but the apparatus of Dr. Snow enables the person administering the vapour to regulate the dose. Out of the fourteen cases in which death has been caused by the remedy, a handkerchief or towel was used in at least ten.+ * See an interesting set of experiments by T. Wakiey, jun. Lancet, ]84S, voi. i. p. 19. t See a paper by Dr. Snow, containing a iist of thirteen fatal c.ases. Mod. Times, 31st Aug. 1850 ; and another fatal case, Med. Times, Sept. 21, 1850.