FISTULA LACIIKYMALIS. 360 The plcace of the tendo oculi may easily be found by gentlj’- drawing the eyelids outwards, when it is seen as a small rounded cord, passing inwards from the inner canthus of the eye. But this guide is scarcely av.ailable when there is swelling and inflammation at the corner of the eye; then the operator must trust to his knowledge of anatomy, and to his surgical tact. The escape of tears and mucus shows when the sac is opened. Then a common probe should be pushed through the duct into the nose. In order to make sure of getting it into the sac, it may as well be introduced by the side of the bistoury before that is withdrawn. It should be pushed downwards, but a little backwards and inwards. When in the right direction, its upper part lies in the situation of the supra-orbital notch. It will be known to have reached the nose by the escape of a little blood. When inflammation has subsided a style should be introduced, i. c., a silver-gilt probe about an inch or an inch and a quarter long, with a head like a nail, which lies on the cheek, where it passes unnoticed like a black patch.* The constant presence of this instrament causes the duct to dilate, so that the tears flow by its side. It should be occasionally cleaned, and then be replaced ; and it causes so much comfort, and the duct is so likely to close if it be left off, that it generally is worn for life. The above is the plan of treatment which the author has generally seen adopted ; and the results have been on the whole satisfactory ; but it follows of necessity that in so common a complaint many other plans of treatment are followed by different surgeons. Short ) pieces of catgut bougie, or silver tubes, are sometimes employed instead of the style. Sometimes attempts are made to restore the nasal duct to its proper calibre, by introducing instruments from below ; either a common silver probe, with its blunt end bent at a idght angle, or else a steel probe made for the purpose; whichever is employed, should be passed along the inferior meatus of the nostril till its point is under the anterior extremity of the inferior turbinated bone, and then by a little manipulation it will pass into the duct. • Mr. Walton covers tho head of the style with a drop of black sealing wax, melted on smoothly; this is better than black paint, though it will require renewal occasionally. Mr. Walton finds that a style a little bent at the upper end (as in the cut) sits better, and irritates less; when the head of it is merely bevelled off, the lower part of its circumference still rests on the skin and ulcerates it.