PKIMARY SYPHILIS. 130 SECTION III.—OF PKIMARY SYPHILITIC ULCERS. General Description.—Primary syphilitic ulcers or chancres may be caused by the application of the syphilitic virus to any surface, mucous or cutaneous, entire, wounded, or ulcerated. Their most fre- quent seal is the genitals;—and in men they are more frequently than otherwise found on the inner surface of the prepuce, or the furrow between the prepuce and corona glandis, or the angle by the fraenum; — obviously because those spots are most convenient for the lodgment of filth. It is notorious that persons with a long prepuce, whose glans is habitually protected by it, and covered with a delicate semi-mucous membrane, are more liable to suffer than those whose glans is un- covered, but clothed with a denser cuticle. The time at which vene- real sores appear is usually said to be from the third to the tenth day after infection; but it is more probable, as Ricord observes, that the syphilitic virus operates progressiveh’’ from the first moment of its application, but that the ul^er is fully formed by the fifth day ; although it may not be perceived by a careless person till later. The average duration of a S3'philitic ulcer produced by inoculation is, according to Wallace, twenty-five daj's. Primaiy syphilitic ulcers present very man}' varieties. These varieties depend,—1st. On the peculiar sore from which infection was received; because every kind of sore, and especially the phagedaenic, has a tendency to reproduce its like. 2ndly. On the state of consti- tution of the patient, and the degree of inflammation which is present. 3rdly. On the situation; and, lastly, on the local treatment. It is impossible in this work to collate and describe the innumerable varieties of syphilitic ulcers that are spoken of by authors. For practical purposes it will suffice to consider them under three heads. 1st. the Hunterian, or indurated chancre; 2ndly, the non-indurated chancre; and, 3rdly, chancres complicated with sloughing or pha- gedama. I. The Hunterian Chancre, or indurated ulcer, is generally found on the common integument or on the glans penis. It may begin either as a pimple, or as a patch of excoriation which heals up, leaving the centre ulcerous. It is nearly circular ; deep and exca- vated; the base and edges are hard as cartilage, but the hardness is circumscribed;* there is little pain or inflammation; its colour is livid or tawny; it is never so hard nor excavated when on the body of the penis as when on the glans. It is this fonn of ulcer which is ordinarily produced when the pus of a chancre is inoculated into the sound skin for purposes of diagnosis. Supposing the inoculation to have been performed with the point of a lancet.—During the first twenty-four hours the puncture reddens ; in ♦ So that it has been said to feel like a little cup of cartilage set in the flesh.