276 DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. described in the section on chronic abscess, although it must be added that this is a plan of treatment which Sir B. Brodie does not believe to possess any particular advantage. The position of the patient in bed is a point of considerable import- ance, as if left to himself he is apt to acquire the most distorted and ungainly attitude. “ The following contrivance,” says Mr. Coulson, “will be found very useful:—a double inclined plane should be formed by joining two portions of wood together in such a manner that when the child’s hams are made to correspond with the angle of junction, his legs and feet should extend down one plane, and there be confined to the foot-boards by rollers, whilst his thighs and buttocks extend down the other. The foot-boards w'ill also have the beneficial effect of removing the weight of the bed-clothes from the feet. Opposite the anus a small opening should be made to admit the passage of the faeces. The whole trunk of the child should lie quite horizontally on the bed.” The prone position is recommended by Coulson in the latter stages ; as it avoids pressure on diseased and ulcerated hips; it allows dress- ings to be readilj' applied, and counteracts the patient’s habit of Ijnng with the diseased limb drawn up across its fellow. A couch is con- structed with an angle, corresponding to the bend of the hips ; it has one part horizontal on which the abdomen and chest repose, while the pelvis and legs hang down an inclined plane. In cases in which a carious head of the femur has been lying out of its socket for some time, keeping up constant irritation and dis- charge, with no chance of benefit from ordinary local or constitutional remedies, whilst the acetabulum and bones of the pelvis, as well as the lungs, kidneys, and other viscera, are free from active disease, excision of the head of the femur ma}' be proposed. This operation w'as first performed bj^ Mr. Anthony White, in 1821, with perfect success, although Sir E. Home, and the medical officers of St. George’s Hospital gave it as their opinion that it woidd be useless, impracticable, and fatal. It was revived by Professor Fergusson in 1845, and has since that time been performed twice by that gentleman, once by Mr. Simon, Mr. H. Smith, Mr. French, Mr. Haynes Walton, Mr. Cotton of Lynn, and Mr. Morris of Spalding, and with such an amount of success that it may now fairly rank amongst the established operations of surgery ; and it is a strong argument in its favour that the acetabulum, although originally involved in the disease, yet frequently sets up a process of repair, and becomes filled with fibrous membrane, so soon as it is relieved by dislocation from the presence of the carious head of the thigh-bone. It is not a difficult proceeding. An incision five or si.x inches in length is made over the diseased and displaced bone ; another at right angles across the trochan- ter ; the soft tissues are cleared away from the bone (they consist of little more than skin and cellular tissue, for the thick muscles which cover the part in health are long since wasted), the saw is applied below the trochanter, and the head of the bone with that process removed.