597 EXCISION OP TUE KNEE-JOINT. turned out, and sawn oft’; and the glenoid cavity of the scapula, if diseased, may be removed by the bone nippers or gouge. But as this operation is most frequently required in cases of gun-shot wound, the surgeon mav vary his incisions, according to the extent and situation of the wound; and may make them of a V or T shape, or may make a simple curved flap, by cutting from near the coracoid process to an inch behind and below the root of the acromion. Ea ti)-patio7i of the clavicle, as it was perfonned by Mr. Travers, has been mentioned under the head of tumours of bone, p. 2'24. The entire scapula was removed by Mr. W. Fergusson from a patient in the King’s College Hospital in February 1847. The arm had previously been removed at the shoulder-joint, and a portion of the glenoid cavity and adjacent bone with it. The patient made a good recovery.* * * § III. The Knee-Joint has been occasionally excised during the last century, with the hope of preserving a useful limb, after the removal of the diseased joint. The operation was first performed in 1 7G2 by Mr. Filken, of Northwich, in Cheshire ; it was subsequently performed twice by Mr. Park of Liverpool, once by Moreau, and Mulder of Groningen, twice by Sir Philip Crampton, and twice by Mr. Syme. One of Mr. Park’s cases was eminently successful, so was one of Cramp- ton’s and of Syme’s. Park’s patient, who was a sailor, was able to go aloft, and perform the usual duties of his calling.+ Acting upon the praiseworthy idea, that no part of the human body should be abstracted, if it can be preserved with safetj% and is capable if preserved, of being useful, Mr. Fergusson performed this operation in the King’s College Hospital in July 1850. An II shaped incision was made in front of the limb, composed of two perpendicular incisions on either side, about four inches long, joined by a transverse one just below the patella. The ligamentum patellm being severed, and that bone turned up, the front of the joint was laid open, the connections of the bones severed, and the ends of the femur, tibia, and fibula, with the patella were removed. This patient unfortunately perished of acute necrosis of the femur; an accident which would in all probability have proved equally fatal if the limb had been amputated.^ These operations must of course be well considered before they are set about. Thej'must neither be performed unnecessarily, in cases that miglit get well with proper local and constitutional treatment; nor, on the other hand, should they be resorted to when the constitu- tion has become exhausted, and the limb disorganised by long suppu- ration; nor yet in cases of injury so complicated, that the patient would be liable to sink from the ensuing irritation and discharge.§ • Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxi. t Vide S. Cooper’s Surgical Diet., Arl. Joints, t Medicjil Times, August 31, 1850. § I’or every further information concerning amputations, and excisions of joints, the author must refer his readers to Mr. Fergusson’s Practical Surgeiy, to Mr. Liston's works, and to Malgaigne's Alauucl de Mcdecine Operatoirc, translated by Mr. Drittan.