AKTICULAR CARIES. 270 lymph growing out of the carious cancelli. When the cartilage is perforated, inflammation and suppuration ensue in the joint, and tli6 case then pursues the although a slower one. same course as the ulceration of cartilage, In some few cases, from the rapidity of the caries, the cartilage is detached en masse; and sometimes necrosis of a small portion of the bone ensues. This disease most frequently affects the knee, elbow, and small bones of the carpus and tarsus ; it is very common in scrofu- lous children, but rare after thirty. An advanced stage gives rise to what was formerly called spina ventosa; that is, the extremity of the bone becomes greatly' enlarged by' superficial deposits, but is hollowed out into a mere shell by caries in its interior. The symptoms are nearly' the same as those of ulceration of cartilage; that is, fi.xed pain, extending to different parts of the limb, aggravated by motion, and un- accompanied at first by' swelling. But in scrofulous cases there is a remarkable iib- sence of pain, except during the formation and bursting of abscesses. Treatment.—This is also nearly the same that is required for ulceration of cartilage. The chief dependence is to be placed on perfect rest, by means of the leather splint; on pure air, good diet, steel, sarsaparilla, and other anti-scrofulous remedies, by the use of which a better state of nutrition may be induced, and the constitution be enabled to repair the local disease; and on the various measures that have been di- rected for the constitutional treatment of scrofula. Issues are not advisable in genuine scrofulous cases, as a general rule; but they are of great service when the pain is severe and continuous. Small leeclnnys may be also occasionally expedient to relieve accidental fits of inflammation. Free issue should be given to pus when it forms. Amputation need not be so hastily performed in general in this disease as in the last; both because the patient has a greater chance of recovery with anchylosis, and because it seems probable that disease of the lungs or mesentery is sometimes suspended or averted by the continuance of a (not very severe) disease in the extremity. If, however, the pain is so serious that it exhausts the strength and spirits, the part must be amputated; because the continuance of so severe an outward disease might induce