OVARIOTOMY. 45 R of course, is to be received into a proper vessel, and the assistants to draw the towel tight as it escapes. If the trocar is a large one, it will be as well to puncture the skin with a common lancet before in- troducing it. The aperture is afterwards to be closed with lint and plaster, and the patient to be put to bed, with the towel fastened round the loins. A broad flannel roller should be substituted for it before he rises. If a patient with ascites happens also to have .an old irreducible hernia, and the sac is much distended, and preserves a free communication with the abdomen, it is a good plan to pmicture the sac instead of the linea-.alba. II. OvARioTosiY.—Ovarian dropsy consists in the conversion of the ovary into a large tumour, containing one or m.any cysts, filled with a serous or glairy fluid, and mixed with more or less solid matter. The cysts may vary in number, from one to a great many ; and in size from that of a pea, to that of the biggest pumpkin. They maj' be thin and flexible like bladder, or thick and semicarti- laginous. The contained fluid is generally glairy like white of egg, and contains .about eighteen grains of albumen to the ounce ; but it may be clear and transparent as pure water, or thick and almost semi- solid. The oviirian tumour not uncommonl}' contains more or less of malignant growth. The ordin.ary course of this disease is, that it continues to increase; it fills up the abdomen; interferes with the breathing, makes the patient’s existence a miseiy, and at last wears her out from pain and irritation. The question then is, what can our art do to cure the patient, or to mitig.ate her sufferings ; and there arc three things that require mention, viz., Istly, tapping ; 2ndly, various medical and surgical measures adopted in the hope of producing atrophy ; and flrdly, ovariotomy. 1. Farace7itesis.—This is the simplest mode of procuring relief; but it is necessarily .an incomplete, and often a dangerous one. Cases are extant, it is true, in one of which the patient lived to be tapped sixty- six times at intervals of .about a month ; and in another 128 times .at intervals of six weeks ; but taken as a gener.al rule it may be affirmed that few patients survive more than four years after the first tapping, a period passed in the greatest misery and suffering ; so that this operation cannot be said to be worth much even as a palli.ative. We may add, that in order to relieve the patient effectu.ally, it may be necessary to use a very long trocar, and to plunge it quite deeply, so as to reach the more deeply-seated cysts ; and that the puncture had better be made wherever fluctu.ation is most evident. Tapping vaginam, when a fluctuating portion of tumour projects much in that situation, m.ay be worth adopting. 2. Under our second head may be enumerated .an immense variety of pl.ans for producing atrophy or absorption of the tumour ; such as (a) the administration of iodine and its preparations taken internally and by friction ; of mercury, and other so-called deobstruent medicines (regarding which the author firmly believes that the less medicine the