473 STRANGULATED HERNIA. If this state of things continue, the inflammatory stage comes on. The neck of the sac becomes tender, and tenderness diffuses itself over the tumour and over the abdomen, both of which become very painful and much more swelled. The countenance is anxious; the vomiting con- stant ; the patient restless and despondent; and the pulse small, hard, and wiry. After a variable time, the constricted parts begin to mor- tify. The skin becomes cold, the pulse very rapid and tremulous, and the tumour dusky red and emphysematous, but the pain ceases, and the patient, having perhaps expressed himself altogether relieved, soon afterwards dies. Varieties.— There is often considerable diversity in the rapidity and violence of these symptoms. If the patient is a strong adult,and the strangulation has commenced suddenly with a fresh protrusion during some forcible exertion, the inflammatory stage maj' come on instantly, and be followed by death in a very few hours. On the other hand, if the patient is old, if the hernia has been long irreducible, and has a large neck, and if the strangulation is produced by distension of the protruded bowel with flatus or faeces—the symptoms of mere obstruction may last many days before those of inflammation come on. To this latter class of cases the term incarcerated is applicable.^' .Again, if the hernia be omental, the symptoms will probably be less acute than if it be intestinal; but not much less. Diagnosis.—If a patient with irreducible hernia be attacked by colic, or enteritis, or peritonitis, the case will present many of the fea- tures of strangulation. Yet it may perhaps be distinguished by noticing that the pain and tenderness did not begin at the neck of the sac, and are not more intense there than elsewhere. The diagnosis will be very obscure if the inflammation commences on the omentum or intestine in the sac. But the general rule is, luhcn in doubt, ojterate. In every case of sudden and violent vomiting and colic, the surgeon should make it a rule to examine the bend of the thigh, the scrotum, and the other ordinary seats of hernia, and to make strict inquiry for any tumours about the abdomen ; because the patient may have been labouTing under hernia for years, and yet from ignorance or mauvaise honte may not mention it. Morbid Appearances.—After death from strangulated hernia, the bowels are found reddened, the upper portion of them much distended, and there are effusions of turbid serum and lymph. Around the sac the tissues arc oedematous or emphysematous. The strangulated in- testine is dark, daret-coloured, and turgid with blood, roughened in patches by a coating of lymph, and displaying patches of gangrene, in the form of greenish or ash-coloured spots, which break down under the finger. The omentum is dark red ; if gangrenous, it feels crispy and emphysematous, and the blood in its veins is coagulated. The sac also contains bloody turbid serum. * There is great confusion in the u.se of these terms, as some surgeons employ tlie term incarcerated to signify what is generally known as inxdarible hernia.'