107 SCIRRHCS. Treatment.—The first thing generally .spoken of under this head is cxtii-jxition bi/ the hii/e, which is considered by some surgeons as the only remedy worth mentioning. Others condemn the knife, either as useless, or as mischievous. Thus Mr. Vincent says, that “ The re- moval of unequivocal cancerous disease does not prolong life,”* and Dr. Walshe, that “ e.vcision cannot be undertaken without imminent risk of putting the patient in a worse state than he or she was in be- fore the use of the knife.” The author will endeavour, therefore, to state what is to be said on either side, and to see at what middle point the truth lies. In the first place, against the practice of excision must be alleged the fact that malignant diseases are constitutional .and not local; th.at the removal of one affected part cannot remove the diathesis, and that the disease is almost sure to return in the original situation, or in some other; witness the common results of the extirpation of a cancerous mamma. That in some instances outward c.ancer is accompanied by the disease inwardly, and that to remove the former would be taking aw.aj' only part of the disease already existing: for instance, in malig- nant dise.ase of the e}'e, or of the testis, some part within the heiid or abdomen is commonly .affected likewise, and operations in such cases are most rarel}' successful. That the removal of outward cancer, like’the pruning of a tree, sometimes seems to rouse the activity of the diathesis, and give increased energy to the morbid growth, if produced after- wards. That the entire remov.al of all affected particles of tissue is often unattainable. That some patients are killed bj' the operation itself ; and that some h.ave died from being operated on for what after- wards proved to be no c.ancer at .all. On the other hand, in favour of operating, it must be said that in- stances are known in which there has been no retiu'n of disease after excision. That other instances are known in which life has undoubtedly been prolonged by the removal of an actively progressing c.ancer. And that even if the dise.ase does return, the openation, th.anks to chloroform, may be painless, and the interval one of health and comfort. It may be concluded, then, that .an operation m.ay be proposed to the patient (who should of course be informed of the precarious chance it affords), if the dise.ase is moveable and circumscribed, so that it can all be cleared aw.ay with the knife. If, however, the skin is extensively tuberculated .and adherent to the scirrhus—if the surrounding fat .and celluLar tissue are implic.ated — if the tumour is firmly adherent to the parts beneath — if it is ex- tensively ulcerated—or if the original disease is much less in degree than co-existent scirrhus of the adjoining 13’raphatic gl.ands—or if the patient’s health is fast sinking — or if there is anj' palpable internal disease—the operation should not be attempted. Yet, even then it maj’ be justifiable occasionallj', in order to remove tumours obstructing * Vincent, op. cit. p. 353.