24 IlYPERTROl-nT. deformities, which ought to be distinguished from those mentioned in the preceding paragraph, insomuch as they do not result from any defect in the germinal power of development, but from diseases occur- ring to the foetus, which produce within the womb the same effects that they would produce at any other period of life. Such are the con- genital club-foot, and dislocation of the hip ; and those very cuiious in- stances of spontaneous amputation, so called, in which one of the limbs of the fcEtus becomes tightly entangled in a loop of the navel-string, or in an accidental band of lymph, and is strangulated and cut off in consequence. III. Hypertrophy.—This term signifies not merely an incre.ase of bulk, or swelling of an organ, but an increase in size, depending on an increase in its healthy structure. Genuine hypertrophy, too, is usually attended with increased development; that is, with the un- folding of a higher order of structure, so that the h}’pertrophied organ acquires new and greater powers. It is, generally speaking, a healthy and conservative process, whereby the hypertrophied organ is enabled to do more than its ordinary share of duty, and to compensate for some deficiency in some other part of the occonomy, “ The causes are,” as Mr. Paget observes, “ chiefly these three. 1. The increased exercise of a part in its natural functions ; 2. An in- creased supply of healthy blood ; 3. An increased accumidation in the blood of the particular materials which any part appropriates in its nutrition, or in secretion.” (1.) Instances of hypertrophy from "the first cause specified are afforded by the bladder, which, in cases of obstruction to the passage of urine, becomes greatly more capacious, with its mucous .and muscidar coats developed into a state of greater power, fitting them for the in- creased pressure they are obliged to bear .and to exert;—by the cuticle, thickened into corns by pressure and friction ; and by the bursae de- veloped under like conditions, in the cellular tissue. (2.) Instances of hypertrophy from increased supply of healthy blood are afforded by the growths of h.air which sometimes take place in the skin in the neighbourhood of ulcers ; and by the elongation of one of the bones of a limb of a growing child, which sometimes occurs when a vascular ulcer of the skin, or disease of .an adjoining portion of bone, has for a considerable time caused .an unusually copious current of blood to circulate in the vicinity. (.3.) Hypertrophy caused by a particular condition of the blood is exemplified in the increase of one kidney, which occurs when the other is incompetent, through disease or injury, to abstr.act its share of urinary matter from the blood. The ossifications which take place in the legs of certain breeds of horses .are owing probabl}' to the s.ame cause, so perhaps is goitre; the obesity of gre.at eaters certainly is. (4.) Lasth', hypertrophy arises occ.asion.ally from some local excess in the vital power of growth or development, whereby a portion of a bone, or of the fatty tissue will grow disproportionately to the rest of the bodj', and form a tumour.