GENERAL PHENOMENA OP INFLAMMATION. 30 liar fluid called pus, closely allied with which is the change called ramollissement, or softening. 5. Ulceration; the destruction of the inflamed part by a process of gradual disintegration. 6. Morti- fication, or its death. To each of these effects a chapter will be de- voted, but we may observe here that effusion of fibrine and suppura- tion are the only definite and characteristic effects of inflammation ; the others may all be produced by other causes besides. Morbid A.n.atomy.—The ordinary post mortem appearances of recent inflammation are, redness, softening, swelling, and infiltration with serum. It is necessary, however, to observe that redness may, in the first place, disappear altogether after death—secondly, it may be simulated by redness from congestion which existed during life— and thirdly, it may be simulated by certain appearances produced after death, through the gravitation of the blood to the most depend- ing situations, and through the transudation of the serum and colour- ing matter through the coats of the vessels in incipient putrefaction ; which are frequent causes of red spots and stains on internal surfaces, and of collections of bloody serum in the various cavities. Therefore, redness, swelling, softening,^ and serous effusion must not be hastily received as evidence of inflammation, unless accompanied by some more decided effect, such as lymph or pus. Forms of Inflammation. — Inflammation may be divided — ]. Into healthy woi. unhealthy,—the former being that which naturally ensues in healthy constitutions, when a part of the organisation is impaired ; being restorative in its tendencies, injurious onlj'- if exces- sive or misplaced, and usually concentrated towards one point; whereas the unhealthy is essentially destructive, has little or no spon- taneous tendency to recovery, and is liable to be diffused widel}'-.* 2. Into common and specific; the common arising from ordinary causes acting on healthy constitutions ;—the specific arising either because the constitution is unsound, as in scrofulous, gouty, or rheumatic persons, so that (to use Hunter’s words) it gives or reflects back upon the part inflamed a diseased disposition or action ;—or because it is produced by a cause which is specific ; as the poisons of small-pox or syphilis. 3. It may be divided into acute and chronic; the acute being sudden in its seizure, violent in its action, and rapid in its pro- gress ;—the chronic being less violent and more tardy. Acute inflam- mation is sometimes called active; and the term/lossA'c is applied to chronic inflammations in weak constitutions. 4. It may be classified according to its tendency to produce particular local effects ; thus we speak of adhesive, suppurative, hmmorrhagic, ulcerative, and g.angrenous inflammation. 5. The tendency to particular forms of inflammation is greatly influenced by the structure of the parts which it invades ; for it has a greater tendency to produce certain effects in some structures than • When we speak oi healthy inflammation, we use an apparently self-contra- dictory term; but still one that is commonly understood to imply an inflamma- tion whose natural tendency is to recovery.