450 PAROTID TUMOURS. If a seton be passed, it should be of silk, and large enough to fill the wound made by the needle, so that there may be no fear of bleed- ing. The needle should be long and narrow. The utmost precaution must be taken, both before and after the operation, to avoid inflam- mation. If after the seton has remained for some time, it ceases to produce a diminution of the gland, it should be withdrawn, and be re-introduced in another place. Extii-pation of the gland is performed by making an incision in the mesial line of the neck ; the skin and muscles must then be dissected from the tumour; and every artery be tied as soon as it is divided. Then (as it is mostly enlargement of the isthmus, or middle lobe, that requires this operation) a strong double ligature should be passed through it, and should be firmly tied on each side of it, before it is cut out. Encysted Tumours.—Sometimes cysts are formed in this gland, which contain a glairy matter or blood. If necessaiy, they may be punctured, when they will most likely inflame, suppurate, and con- tract. If bleeding prove troublesome, the wound must be filled with lint. Similar cysts are liable to form in other parts of the neck, and not connected with the thyroid gland. Their treatment is the same.* This gland may further be affected with acute and chronic inflam- maiion, and tubercular deposit; either of which maj’ lead to abscess. Their treatment must be conducted on general j>rinciples. It has also been affected with scirrhus, although rarely. Some cases of it are recorded in the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvii. by Mr. Ctesar Hawkins, and by Mr. Brown of Bath. The patients presented solid tumours in the situation of the gland, not having the characters of ordinary bronchocele, and one distinctive feature was the fixitj' of the parts. III. Hernia Bronchalis {Bronchocele vera. Goitre aerien) is a very rare tumour, formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane through the cartilages of the larynx, or the rings of the trachea, and caused by violent exertions of the voice. Larrey met with sundry instances of it in French officers, and in the muezzin or priests that call the people to prayer from the top of the minarets in Moham- medan countries. The tumour is soft and elastic, can often be made to disappear by pressure, and is increased by any exertion. The only available treatment is moderate support.-f IV. Parotid Tumours. — The parotid gland is occasionally, although rarely, the seat of malignant disease, .and perhaps of sarco- matous enlargement. But the tumours behind the ramus of the jaw, commonly called parotid tumours, generally depend on disease of the lymphatic glands, which are embedded in the parotid. These, by their increase, may cause the natural texture of the latter to be absorbed, and may extend inwards to the pterygoid and styloid processes, and • Vide a paper by Mr. B. Phillips in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxv. on Tumours in the neck not involving the Thyroid Gland. 1 Larrey, Clinique Chimrgicale, tom. ii. p. SI. Paris, 1829.