RHAGADES.—PROLAl’SUS ANI. 497 then to be placed in tlie wound, and the patient to be kept in bed for three days. The subsequent treatment consists in the use of perfect cleanliness, and the daily introduction of a very little slip of lint (which may be dipped in some stimulating lotion if necessary) be- tween the edges of the wound for the first few days, so as to prevent its edges from uniting, and to cause it to granulate from the bot- tom. If hoemorrhage prove violent after this operation, and does not yield to the application of cold, the anus must be well dilated with a speculum, so as to expose the bleeding surface to the air, and any artery discernible may be tied ; or else it may be firml}' plugged with lint, which is to be secured l)y a T bandage. If the patient will not submit to this operation, or if he is labouring under disease of the lungs or liver or kidneys, in an advanced stage, so that it would be unsafe, the treatment must be palliative merely. The confect, piperis, or copaiba and tonics, may be administered internallj’’, and stimulating injections and ointments be applied to the fistula; but they will rarely be of any avail. X. RiiAGADE.s—fissures and excoriations about tlie anus—produce the utmost pain during the passage of evacuations, and if neglected may lead to spasm and permanent stricture of the sphincter. Treatment. — Aperients and alteratives, regular diet, astringent applications, such as decoction of rhatany, zinc lotion, borax and honey, or mercurial ointment, or ting. hydr. nitrat. dibit., to which a little ext. belladon. should lie added if there be much pain or spasm of the sphincter, and the strictest cleanliness. But if a fair trial of these measures is unavailing, the sphincter must be divided. XI. Prolapsus Am consists in an eversion of the lower por- tion of the rectum, and its pro- trusion through the anus. Some- times a little fold of the mucous membrane only protrudes ; but in ordinaiy cases the muscular coat, and whole thickness of tlie bowel, come down. Tliis affec- tion is most common in infanev and old age. It mil}' depend on a natural laxity and delicacy of structure, or be caused by violent straining, in conse- quence of costiveness, or ol the existence of piles, or stone, or stricture. * lliis cut, from a preparation in the King's College Musonin, shows a sec- tion ol a prolapsod rectum—the whole circumference of the lower part of the uowel being everted and extruded. The mucous membrane is e.xcessively thickened Iroin the irritation of exposure. K K