474 STRANGULATED nERNIA. TrcalmenU—The indications are, 1st, to return the intestine, or any portion of it that may not be irreducible ; 2ndly, to divide any con- stricting part, if necessary; 3rdly, to obviate inflammation. The Taoris. — In the first place, an attempt should be made to return the protrusion by a manual operation, technieally called taxis' The bladder having been emptied, the patient should lie down, and be put under the complete influence of chloroform ; if this be not used, he should bo made to lie in a warm bath, with his shoulders raised; and both his thighs should be bent towards the belly and be placed close to each other, so that every muscle and ligament connected with the abdomen may be relaxed. If not narcotized he should be engaged' in conversation to prevent him from straining with his respiratorj' muscles. Then the surgeon, if the tumour be large, grasps it with the palms of both hands, gently compresses it in order if possible to squeeze a little of the flatus into the abdomen, pushes it in the axis of the neck of the sac, and at the same time with his fingers gently kneads and sways the parts at the neck of the tumour, or perhaps tries to pull them very gently downwards, in order if possible to dislodge them. This operation may be continued for a quarter or half an hour or longer if the tumour is indolent, but not so long if it is tender, and <at last, perhaps, the surgeon will be delighted to he.ar a gurgling sound accompanying the return of a portion of intestine. The opera- tor should recollect that too much force may bruise or rupture the viscera, or drive sac and all into the abdomen, or push them between the layers of abdominal muscles, and that he must not be satisfied with a partial reduction of the volume and tension of the tumour, if the vomiting remains unrelieved, because, as Mr. Mayo has shown, such a diminution might be caused by merely forcing the serum con- tained in the sac into the abdominal cavity. If the taxis do not succeed, certain auxiliary measures are com- monly resorted to. (a) The first to be mentioned is c/(forq/brw, inhaled till it produces complete relaxation and unconsciousness. (i) Dleediny to the approach of sA'iicope may be tried if the patient is robust, the hernia small and of recent date, and if there is much tenderness of the sac or of the abdomen, in which latter case it should be employed before trying the taxis. (c) The hot hath (9(5°—100° F.) continued long enough to produce great relaxation is useful in similar cases ; but it must be recollected that a delicate person will not be very likelj' to bear the shock of an operation, if bled or boiled to death’s door first of all. (rf) A large dose of opium or morphia, is a remedy most useful in cases of acute strangulation, if for any reason chloroform be not given; and esi)ecially if the pain and vomiting are violent. (e) The tobacco enema (5j ad Oj aq. ferv. allowed to stand ten minutes, and half to be used at a time) has certainly been successful • From Tao-cru), I set in order.