HISTORY AND PATHOLOGY. 17] I appearance of ulcers or eruptions, there may be forty or fifty instead of four or five venereal poisons.* IV. Are the poisons of gonorrhcea and syphilis identical? Hunter believed that they were identical, for he produced a chancre I by inoculation with gonorrhoeal matter, which was followed in three I months by sore throat and eruptions. But the recent researches of IRicord show, that, although the pus of a syphilitic ulcer, like any (other morbid secretion, may irritate a mucous membrane and produce ! gonorrhma, still that gonorrhoeal matter will not produce (at the j present day) primary syphilitic ulcers, and that gonorrhoea will not be ffollowed by secondary syphilitic symptoms, unless there is also a (chancre or syphilitic sore in the nrethra ; which was probably the (case with the patient from whom Hunter took the gonorrhoeal matter. V. What IS THE origin of syphilis?—M. Kicord throws out I the conjecture, that a source foreign to the hnman race may have fnr- inished the first germ of syphilis, which, once engrafted, has been pro- {pagated by inoculation like the vaccine virus; and he believes that it I never arises spontaneously. Another opinion is, that it may occasion- aally be produced du 7iovo, if a mixture of various foul and diseased I male and female secretions act upon a breach of surface in an unhealthy cconstitution. “ I believe with my friend Mr. Guthrie,” says the late «eminent arm3'-sm-geou, W. Fergusson, “ that wherever prostitution is' ff’oul and unclean, restricted to few women amongst crowds of men, tthere the infection will be generated; which afterwards spreads through ! society at large. The irregularities of man are at all times punished I by the generation of diseases, and loss of the health ; and it would be (difficult to believe in a superintending providence if tliis transgression of divine and human law should be allowed to pass unpunished. IThis quotation seems to contain the most common sense view of the qquestion. And the following facts furnish a kind of approximation to a f proof of it. Seventeen galley-slaves were inoculated with gonorrhoeal nmatter. Slight ulcers were produced, which in five of the cases healed rreadily enough. But the remaining twelve patients were either scro- ffulous or scorbutic, or in an ill state of health, and seven of these -suffered from eruptions and wandering pains.J Of the causes of go- tnorrhoea we shall speak in the next section. Lastl}', IS MERCURY A SPECIFIC ?—Hunter not only considered tthat no really sj'philitic disease could get well without it, but gravely aupbraids human nature for doubting it. “ Nothing,” says he, “ can ■show more the ungrateful and unsettled mind of man than his treat- nment of this medicine. If there is such a thing as a specific, mercuiy ■is one for the venereal disease.” The following results, however, of (■experiments made by the army surgeons, and especially ly Rose, * Cannichaol onumerates five; Judd nine; which, Iiowover, lie does not believe to he all that exist. t Notes and Kocollections of a Professional Life, by the late W. Fereusson Lond. 1846. e . t P. H. Hernandez, quoted by Ricord.