AXEURISM. 309 carotid ; IG of tlie subclavian ; 14 of the axillary ; 5 of the external iliac ; 4 of the innominata ; 3 of the brachial, common iliac, and an- terior tibial, respectively; 2 of the gluteal, internal iliac, and tem- poral, respectively ; and 1 of the ulnar, perinteal, internal carotid, radial, and palmar arch, respectively. Dissecting Aneurism.— This variety of aneurism begins with ulcera- tion of the lining membrane of an artery at some diseased spot, in such a way that the blood penetrates between the arterial tunics, splitting them up, and making false passages between them. In this way very anomalous symptoms may be produced, of which no better example can be desired than is afforded by a case of Dr. Todd’s, related in the 27th volume of the Med. Chir. Transactions. In this case, ulceration had taken place in the aorta, and this was the start- ing point of a splitting up of the middle arterial tunic, which extended upwards through the innominata into the right carotid and partly into the left, and downwards nearly as low as the kidneys. Of course tlie getting in of the blood between the coats of the arteries must have materially impeded the circulation through them ; and, in fact, in this case caused softening of the anterior portion of the right hemisphere of the brain by depriving it of its supply of blood, besides suppression of urine, and other symptoms that would have been almost inexplicable, unless a post mortem examination had been per- formed. Treatment. — The indications are to stop, or at least to check, the circulation through the aneurism, and to produce coagulation of the blood within it. The means are, compression, or ligature of the diseased artery, which means may be aided by internal remedies. Suiyical Treatment.— 1st, By Comjyression. This very simple and obvious mode of arresting the circulation through arteries, was em- ployed long «ince by Guattani and others, and with some degree of success ; but from the imperfect and often violent manner in which it was applied, it more frequently failed than succeeded, and often caused considerable mischief. During the last six years, however, it has been revived by the Dublin surgeons, Hutton, Cusack, and Belling- ham, and has been rendered so safe, painless, and speedy a remedy, that it ought to supersede the ligature in popliteal aneurism, aud in fact in any case whatever in which it can be applied. It has been proved that it is not necessaiy eonvpletety to obstruct the circulation of tlie artery at the point compressed, still less to excite the adhesive in- flammation there so as to obliterate it; in fact, that a very feeble circulation through the aneurismal sac is advantageous. It is found on dissection of cases treated in this manner, that the artery is oblite- rated at the site of the aneurism. The instrument employed to cause the pressure, may be either Signoroni’s tourniquet (shown in the adjoining sketch)—an arc of steel, with a joint in the middle, and a screw by which the extre- mities of the instrument are pressed together ; or else a solid clamp of steel, having a wooden splint at one end, and a pad with a screw