304 ANEURISM. sloughing of the end of one finger, followed the hajmorrhage .of abor- tion in a young lady of 24.* The practical point to be derived from our knowledge of this com- plaint is, that, in any case of spontaneous gangrene, we should not be too hasty in treating it as a case of debility, by local and general sti- mulants, till the condition of the arteries has been well examined. 3. Chronic Arteritis may be supposed to be an occasional cause or accompaniment of thickening, softening, ossification, occlusion, and other forms of degeneration of arteries-i- SECTION III.—OF ANEURISM. Definition.—An aneurism is a sac filled with blood, and commu- nicating with an artery, by the rupture or dilatation of which it has been produced. Varieties.—In the first place, a distinction must be made between aneurism, which consists of a dilatation of an artery, for a part only of its circumference; and tlie general dilatation, which consists of a bulbous expansion of all the arterial tunics for the whole of their circumference, and which differs from true aneurism in containing no laminated coagula. The true aneurism con- sists of a sac formed by one or more of the arterial tunics. § The false and dif- fused aneurism, so called, which result from wounds of arteries, have been de- scribed in the 1st section of this chapter. Besides these kinds, authors speak of a sacculated aneurism ; that is, one' which is formed into pouches by an unequal dilatation of its parietes ; and of a dissecting aneurism, that is to say, one in which * See also Sir B. Brodie’s Lecture on Gangrene, Med. Gaz., vol. xvii. for two An abltf^fof a learned pa))er bv Tiedmann on Artentis and conse- quences may be found in Banking’s Abstract, vol. iii., and Ed. Mod. and burg. ■^Tah biciiien^t aneurism of the arch of the aorta; the blood was just making Hs way through a minute ulcerated opening, into a cavity between the arteriM tu ., Riled with setheromatous deposit. Tlie portion of artery represented 1» an to show the cut edges, with the deposit between the coats of the 't.-.sel. § It may bo remarked that some authorities call all aneurisms false which do not consist of all three arterial tunics.