THE MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND BDRS^. 209 liniments, moderate exercise, and bandages, especially the flannel bandage. If the case is severe, it may be expedient to apply a succes- sion of blisters, and the other remedies directed for chronic inflamma- tion of joints. VI. Acute Inflammation of Fascee.—Acute inflammation of fasciaj is generally caused by punctured wounds :—especially by punc- ture of the fascia of the biceps during venesection ;—and by punctures of the fingers, inflammation of the tendinous sheaths of which is called thecal abscess; paronychia gravis, or icndinoxts whitlow. It is at- tended with severe, tensive, throbbing pain; exquisite tenderness; slight, but tense and resisting swelling; and very great constitutional disturbance. It may lead to suppuration;—the matter extending itself along muscles and tendons—from the fingers to the forearm— causing sloughing of the tendons—severe irritative fever—life often obliged to be saved by amputation—or the limb, if preserved, stitf and useless. Treatment.—If the pain and tension increase, notwithstanding the employment of leeches, fomentations, and purgatives, free incisions must be made through the inflamed parts; in order to give vent to matter, if it have formed—or by creating a free discharge of blood, to prevent its formation.* VII. Subacute Inflammation of Fasciaj.—Subacute inflamma- tion sometimes affects the fascia; of the forearm, hand, or neck ; pro- ducing pain and tenderness, with spasm in the subjacent muscles, which may degenerate into obstinate rigidity, producing one form of wry-neck, &c. Treatment.— Leeches, fomentations, blisters, mercurial camphorated liniments, F. ISO, 160 ; vapour bath ; very small does of colchicum and Dover’s powder at bedtime, with aperients in the morning ; or blue pill, administered so as to cause incipient ptyalism. VIII. Tumours on Tendon and Ligament.—Small tumours about the size of a pea are apt to form on the tendons or fasciae. Sometimes they follow a strain ; and they have been known to occur on the palmar fascia; after a good day’s work at the oar ; but they often arise without any assignable cause. If indolent, as they often are, they may be left to themselves, and they will probably disappear. If painful, leeches, blisters, and frictions with mercurial ointment or lini- ment, are the proper remedies. IX. Ciialksto.ne Tumours are composed of the lithate (or urate) of soda; a white insoluble substance, which in gouty subjects is fre- quently deposited into the texture of the bones, joints, and cellular tissue;—but most frequently into the cellular tissue that environs the tendons of the feet or hands. The tumours which this substance forms are not always inorganic, but may be permeated by exquisitelj' sensi- ble threads of cellular membrane. After remaining indolent for a variable time, they inflame the superjacent skin, and cause the forma- ♦ Vide Whitlow, in part iv. chap. 2t.