266 THE LIGAMENTS. obtuse pain, and caused by a deposition of lymph, which renders the tissue hard and brawny. As it increases, the skin becomes distended, white, and shining, and the pain and constitutional distress extreme. After this ad/iesive stage has lasted an uncertain number of months, suppuration occurs at one or more points ; and the abscesses burst through the s3movial membrane, and cause irreparable disorganization of the joint. Treatment.—Leeches or cupping, and cold lotions, followed after a time b^f Scott’s ointment (F. 160, 6). Mr. Wickham deems coun- ter-irritants and friction injurious.* SECTION III.—THE LIGAMENTS. I. Inflammation.—Authors have described a form of inflam- mation of the ligaments of joints characterized by great pain from motions that shake, or twist them.f It must be treated like the subacute fascial inflammation. II. Relaxation.—If any^ joint have been long disused, and espe- cially if its innervation is impaired, its ligaments are liable to be- come relaxed and elongated, so as even to permit the dislocation of the bones to which they are attached. Thus in a case related bj^ Mr. Stanley, which followed an attack of hemiplegia, the ligamentum teres and capsular ligament of the hip were so elongated as to permit the head of the femur to slip out of the acetabulum. A similar result may ensue from long-continued chronic synovitis or rheumatism. Mechanical support, blisters, friction, cold affusion or sea-bathing, and electricity, are the only available remedies.^ Slighter degrees of relaxation occurring to weakly children, may be cured bj' good diet, tonics, and friction. section IV.—the cartilage. The affection of cartilage in which the surgeon is interested, is its ulceration ; a process which Dr. Redfern has shown to be under all circumstances the same. The cartilage cells became enlarged, crowded with corpuscles, and at last burst and discharge their contents on the surface; whilst the hj'aline or intercellular substance splits into bands and fibres, and together with the discharged corpuscles, forms in some cases a fibro-nucleated membrane on the surface of the cartilage. Together with these changes, more or less fattj' degeneration may be combined. * Wickham on the Joints, p. 84, Winchester, 1833. See also Nicolai, quoted in Coulson on the Hip Joint, p. 85. Mr. South gives two cases of this rare disease in his Trans, of Chelius, vol. i. p. 210. What used to be called w/iife swelling of tho knee joint seems really to have consisted of a similar degeneration of the cellular tissue .around the joint. Mayo's Patliologj', p. 79. j Vide six ciuses of dislocation from this source, narrated by Mr. Stanley m Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxiv.