THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 50 Examples of Adhesion.—This process may occur under an infinity of circumstances, some of the more frequent of which we proceed to enumerate :—premising, first of all, that parts of the body, when divided by clean incision, have under favourable circumstances the power of uniting directly, by apposition, as if they had never been severed, without the medium of lymph, or any other connecting ma- terial whatever. This may be noticed occasionally in cuts about the hand; rarely in larger wounds, such as the abstraction of a breast. 1. Ilepair of Subcutaneous Injuries.—Injuries in which the skin is not divided, are notoriously much more favourable, and less likely to be the subject of dangerous inflammation than those attended with an open wound. The slight inflammation excited bj"' the injury soon subsides ; and the divided parts are united bj’ fibrinous 13'mph, 2. Primary Adhesion of an open Wound, or Union by the First Intention. —In this case, Ij'inph is effused in a thin layer between two severed sm-faces, and quickly developes itself into a fibro-cellular tissue, whilst its exposed surface becomes covered with a cuticle or epi- thelium covering a thin line of cicatrix. 3. Healing under a Scab, and by the Modelling Process.—Scabbing is a natural and most speedy mode of cure for wounds which cannot be covered by skin. The wound acquires a covering of dried blood, under which a thin layer of lymph quickl)' developes itself into fibro- cellular tissue covered with cuticle, which, when accomplished, the scab drops off. This mode is veiy common after injuries to the lower animals. In man it is difficult to produce, from the greater liability of the wound to inflame, and of the Ijmiph to degenerate into pus, which detaches the scab; or causes great pain if it is shut up under it. (JSee the Chapter om Wounds. Part III. Ch.ap. I.) 4. Healing by Granulations.—In this process, an open wound, whether produced by injury, or by the bursting of an abscess, becomes covered with Ij'mph, which is thrown up into little points, and if healthy is quite florid from the abundance of its blood-vessels. Its surface secretes a fluid called pus, formed out of such of the lymph as is incapable of organization, as will be more fullj' described in the next chapter. This is the mode in which open wounds generalh' heal in the human subject; but it is an imperfect mode; because granula- tions are extremely liable to be diseased, and because they entail a great waste of material which escapes in the form of pus. When two surfaces covered with granulations are made to unite, the union is said to be by seco?idary adhesio7i, or by the second intention. 5. Adhesion as a Morbid Process.—When acute or chronic inflam- mation affects the serous membranes of the chest and belljs or the iris, lymph is very liable to be effused and converted into bands of adhesion, glueing neighbouring parts together. This, which when occurring spontaneous!}’, is morbid and injurious, is after injury a most beneficial means of limiting effusions, and glueing together severed parts. Chronic thickening, and indurations, such as those which encircle the oesophagus and urethra in stricture, arc fonned by