420 NON-MALIGNANT OR FIBROUS TUMOUR. neous, fibrinous mass, containing spicula of bone. Its.origin is gene- rally ascribed to external injury, or to disease of the teeth. It may be distinguished from malignant disease by noticing that its growth is slow, that its surface is lobulated, that it feels hard and elastic, like brawn interspersed with bony particles; that although the superjacent skin may become turgid and purple with distended veins, still that it does not become incoi’porated with the tumour ; and that although ulceration may accidentally occur on its surface, still that the ulcers are superficial, furnish no fetid discharge nor hmmorrhage, and may heal on the removal of the exciting cause.* These tumours may, if suffered to remain, entirely obstruct the nose and mouth, and so cause suffocation or starvation. Treatment.—The tumour must be extirpated entirelj", but an explo- ratory puncture should first be made in order to prove that the case is not one of mere collection of fluid. If of moderate size, and situated towards the front of the bone, the aperture of the mouth may be enlarged by an incision from the ala of the nose to the margin of the lip ; if very small, this may not be necessary. At all events, “ the mucous membrane and cheek must be dissected off the tumour as far upwards and backwards as its bulk renders necessary; then an incisor tooth and bicuspid or molar must be extracted, and the point of the knife be carried through the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and every soft texture which it can reach, where it is in- tended to effect the separation;” then the bone on either side of, and above the tumour, must be grooved with small saws, of various sizes, after which its separation must be completed with the cutting forceps. If, however, the tumour is of larger dimensions, so that it not onlj' protrudes in front, but also encroaches on the nostril, and pushes the eyeball upwards, it will be necessary to remove the whole of the supe- rior maxillary, and perhaps the malar bone also. Mr. Fergusson has effected this by incisions much more limited than formerly. He makes a clean cut through the upper lip, and carries it into the nostril ; the gum is then dissected awa}' from the hard parts, and the flap is turned upwards, so that bj^ care the entire jaw may be ex- posed, and the greater portion of it be removed. The great benefit of this plan is, that hardly anj^ disfiguration is left after the wound has healed up, and there is very little bleeding of consequence during the operation. If the malar bone and the floor of the orbit arc to be removed, an additional cut must be made from the corner of the * “Softness .and rapidity of growth are,” s,ays Mr. Fergusson, “most indica- tive of ni.alignancy in such cases; and if combined with tliese, the limits are indistinctly defined, and tliere are constitutional indications of such a growth, the disease is evidently one of a serious cliaractcr. If, on the other hand, the swelling is hard and slow of increase ; if the distinctions between it and the surrounding parts are apparent; if tlie person seems otherwise in good health, and in nowise disturbed by the swelling excepting by the inconvenience result- ing from its bulk, then there maybe every reason to suppose that it is benign m its char.actor.”—Practical Surgery, p. 483.