526 VARIOUS KINDS OP CALCULI. But far different must be the treatment if the urinarj- deposit, be it what it may, is created, not bj’ an excess of material in the system, but by feebleness of the powers which ought to convert the food into healthy flesh and blood. In these cases the prime object must be, to strengthen the digestion ; and the means are the following—1. It is often beneficial to begin the cure b}' freeing the liver and bowels of black offensive scybalous motions, by a grain or two of calomel, with colocynth, or with some tonic purge, to carrj’’ it off, F. .37, 41, 50, &c. The motions should be inspected; and the medicine be repeated at discretion till they are rendered healthj% 2. There are few remedies comparable to change of air, including as it must, change of diet, water, habits, and occupation, for the cure of all disorders of mal- assimilation. 3. Alkalis, such as F. 77, 79, may often be given in small doses after meals to the infinite comfort \of the stomach, if the patient complains of sour eructations, flushed face, flatulence, &c. 4. But the most important medicines are Tonics. Of these one of the most useful is the nitromuriatic acid, F. 22, which may always be given with benefit on an empty stomach, if the patient likes it ; if he feels that it takes away that n.auseous flabby alkaline condition of mouth which so commonly accompanies a low digestive power. But the other mineral acids: bark, quinine, strychnine, and other bitters; the sulphates of zinc and of iron; and the mu- riated tincture of iron will all be found useful. 5. Opium intro- duced into the rectum as a suppository is often necessary to allay local iiTitation. 6. The diet should consist of those subst.ances which are most re.adil}’ convertible into good flesh and blodd, and least li.able to undergo degeneration during their solution in the stomach. Meat, beef-tea, milk, eggs, good bread, cruciferous vegetables ; brandy and water, or sound sherry, or bitter ale, sliow the kind of substances to be preferred; and sugar, pastry, sago, slops, and bad wine the things to be avoided. SECT. IX.—OF THE VARIOUS KINDS OF CALCULI. The various deposits spoken of in the preceding section may, as we .ibserved, lodge in some part of the urinary organs, and concrete into stone. There are altogether fourteen species, many of which are ex- cessively rare. The principal ones are, the lithic, phosphatic, and mulberry. I. Lithic Acid calculi are generally oval, flattened, fawn, or maho- gany-coloured, and on a section are seen to be composed of concentric laminrn. Tests.—This acid may be dissolved by boiling in liquor potassce; it burns away almost entirely before the blowpipe, and if digested in a small quantity of nitric acid, .and evapor.ated at a very gentle heat, it leaves a scarlet residue, which becomes purple on the addition of ammonia. II. Lithate of Am.monia rarely forms a calculus, because it is tolerably soluble in warm urine. Tests.—It may be known by the