329 CHAPTER X. OP INJURIES OF THE HEAD. SECTION I.—WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. Wounds and contusions of the scalp, be they ever so slight, are not to be neglected. For they may be followed by erysipelas ; or by indammation and suppuration under the occipito-frontalis, or within the cranium, that might easily prove fatal. It may be observed, that sutures are generally inexpedient ; that although there lie consider- able arterial hmmorrhage, ligatures should be avoided, if it can be restrained by pressure; that if a flap of the scalp is nearly or even quite detached, it should be carefully washed, and returned to its place, avoiding sutures and pressure by bandages and plasters ; that if a blow on the head causes an extensive and increasing extravasation of blood under tlie scalp, rendering it evident than an artery has been divided by the blow, the exact situation of the injured vessel should, if possible, he ascertained, and pressure be applied there ; that earlj’’ and free incision must be made in the event of suppuration, and that punctures must be made if there is great effusion of serum under the occipito-frontalis ; but that if blood is extravasatcd there, its absorp- tion is to be promoted by bleeding, cold, and low diet; and no inci- sion is to be made, unless positively necessarj'. SECTION II.—CONCUSSION OP THE BR.AIN. Definition.—Concussion (commonly called stunning) signifies sud- den interruption of the functions of the brain, caused by a blow, or other mechanical injury to the head, and not necessarily attended with visible organic lesion of the brain. •Symptoms.—There are two degrees of it. 1. In ordinary cases, the patient lies for a time motionless, unconscious, and insensible ; if roused and questioned, he answers hastily, and instantly relapses into insensibility; after a time, he moves his limbs as if in uneasy sleep, and vomits, and frequently recovers his senses instantly afterwards; remaining, however, gidd}', confused, and sleepy for some hours. 2. In the more severe degree the patient is profoundly insensible, the surface pale and cold, the features ghastly, the pulse feeble, .and intermittent, or perhaps insensible, and the breathing slow, or per- formed only by a feeble sigh, drawn at intervals. Vomitiny is an important symptom. It is not present in veiy slight rases, nor in very severe ones ; and its occurrence is mostly an indication of approaching recovery. Con.Hcquen(xs.~y. In cases not attended with fracture or lesion I of the brain, the patient suffers from some degree of headache and