RAOTURES OP THE FEMUR. 253 put round the groin, and be fastened firmly to the holes at the top of the splint; and, lastly, a few turns of broad bandage are to be passed round the trunk.”* In order to prevent the galling of the perineal band, and its sup- posed tendency to draw the fractured parts asunder, Mr. Fergusson had adopted the plan in some cases of making counter-extension from a strong stay of jean, accurately fitted to the upper third of the opposite thigh ; from which a band extends back and front to the upper end of the splint. This is very comfortable, and obviates the necessity of the band round the belly, since it draws the splint towards the body. Mr. Fergusson has also devised a modification of the straight splint, which has the merits of cheapness and simplicity, and at the same time seems likely to answer almost every purpose of a splint that can be required in treating fractures of the lower extremity.! It con- sists of a long iron bar, of the length of the ordinary straight splint ; but the upper half of it can be unscrewed and removed, so as to make it a short splint, for fractures below the knee. It has a foot-board, which can be ad.apted to any length of limb ; which can be moved to any distance from the splint, so as to adapt the instrument to the thickness of the patient’s leg ; can be .adapted to any degree of flexion or extension of the ankle joint; and what is of extreme consequence, c.an be turned inward or outward, so as to rotate the limb on its long axis, and prevent inversion or eversion of the foot. The advantage of this, in treating fractures and dislocations of the ankle, must be obvious. The fracture-hed, a contrivance consisting of four planes, one for the trunk, a second for the thighs, a third for the legs, and a fourth for the feet, each of which can be adjusted to any length, and to any angle with the others, is used by some surgeons, and is not without its advantages. (3.) Ohliqice fracture through the Great Trochanter.—This accident may occur at any period of life, and is attended with the foUowing symptoms: —The limb is everted, but very little shortened ; and the shaft of the bone can be felt widely separated from the trochanter. This fracture unites readily by bone; and the treatment required con- sists of extension of the limb by the long splint, and a circular girth with a pad, to support the upper extremity of the shaft and keep the broken surfaces in apposition. (4.) Fracture of the Epiphysis of tire Trochanter ]\[ajor.—The tro- chanter is sometimes broken off from the femur, at the part where it is Tinited by cartilage as in epiphysis in youth. The diagnosis is generally obscure ; but we allude to the accident in order that the surgeon may be aware of the possibility of such an occurrence. The part will unite by ligament. (5.) Fracture of the Femur just below the Trochanters-is li.able to be * I.iston, op. cit. *p. 88. t U is manufactured by Weiss in the Strand.