109 MEDULLARY SARCOMA. tumour when indolent. Sometimes iodine, calomel, and other reme- dies may be applied in sachets; that is to say, in little muslin bags, filled with cotton wool powdered with the remedy in ques- tion, and covered with oiled silk on the side that is 7iot applied to the skin. Pressure.—This was tried some years ago with partial success, and has been revived by Dr.Walshe, who entertains rather sanguine expect- ations of its good results. The manner in which it may be most con- veniently applied is by an instrument that has been invented by Dr. Amott. It consists of a spring passing either round the body or over one shoulder by means of which the pressure is generated;—of bands, pads, &c., for maintaining the apparatus comfortably in situ;—of a shield or circular frame;—and of a cushion within the shield, partially filled with air. The diseased part is received into this slack air cushion which adapts itself admirably to its surface. The pressure shoidd be steadily applied, and gradually increased from about two pounds to six or more. This plan of treatment certainly deserves a fair trial, since, according to Dr. Walshe, if it has no other effect, it certainly procures an extraordinary alleviation of pain. Palliative ]\[easures.—In order to allay pain, and lessen the fcetor and acrimony of the discharge, use may be made of many of the appli- cations recommended for irritable ulcers, especially the black wash, the solution of nitrate of silver, and the opiate lotion. Fennenting poultices, iced water, and bismuth ointment ; in fact, any succession of mild stimulants and sedatives may afford some temporary relief. Nothing should be applied that is very warm. Dr. Fagan informs the author that he has found a solution of tannin produce cicatrization, and otherwise give great relief in a case where the skin was infil- trated with scirrhus and on the point of commencing ulceration, as it often does, by a wide excoriation. SECTION III.—OF MEDULLARY SARCOMA. Syn.—Encophaloid disease; carcinoma medullare; soft cancer; fiatr/us hcBinatodes ; spongy injlammation. Symptoms. — Medullary sarcoma usually commences as a soft, rounded, elastic tumour, growing rapidly, generally free from pain or tenderness, and not circumscribed or moveable, but blended with the surrounding tissues. Anatomical Characters.—On a section this tumour appears to be composed of a white opake substance of the colour and consistence of brain, streaked with numerous minute blood-vessels. It very often happens that its delicate blood-vessels are ruptured, and the tumour, becoming infiltrated with blood, resembles a coagulum ; in this state it is called fungus hwmutodes. Sometimes after rupture of a vessel the effused blood is absorbed, as after apoplexy of the brain, and there is