549 IMPOTENCE. Other hand, soot may produce this disease on other parts besides the scrotum. It usually commences as a florid vascular wart, called the soot-wart. This gradually spreads, aft'ects the whole scrotum and neighbouring part of the penis, and ulcerates, producing a fungous sore with ragged edges, discharging a thin oft’ensive matter, and causes so much pain and constitutional disturbance as ultimately to destroy life. This is probably in all cases a cancroid, or semi-malignant aftection, and the fungous growths consist, as in a case examined by Hughes Bennett, of hypertrophied epithelial scales, and thickened dermis, and not of cancerous deposit. Thus the fact is readily explained that the free and full extirpation of all the diseased portions of skin by the knife, is generally successful as a means of cure.* SECTION IV. OP IMPOTENCE. Impotence in the male may depend on a variety of conditions. 1. It may be caused by absence, or mutilation, or malformation, or original weakness and want of development of the genital organs. 2. After a severe and tedious illness, the genitals may remain inca- pable of performing their functions, long after the restoration of the liealth and strength in other respects. Steel and other tonics, with cantharides, musk, extract of mix vomica, resin of Indian hemp, gal- vanism cautiously applied to the spine, spices, eggs, and oysters, are the remedies. Phosphorus in doses of gr. ^'o be a potent aphrodisiac in these cases. 3. Blows on the head, or spine, are apt to be followed by impotence ; which sometimes is relieved, but more frequently is permanent. A cautious course of mercury ; followed by the stimulating aphrodisiacs just mentioned, are the remedies most likely to be of use. A similar result sometimes follows a tit of apoplexy. 4. Certain diseases are always attended with a diminution, and sometimes with a complete loss of sexual power; especially diabetes, diseases of the kidneys, some forms of dyspepsia; and the latter stage of most chronic organic diseases. 5. It often happens that a young man, the tirst time he yields to\ carnal temptation—or that a newly married man on the night of his/ nuptials, finds'himself incapable of accomplishing his wishes—through' awkwardness, or timiditj', or over anxiety on his own part, or, perhaps,/ from something disagreeable in his bed-fellow. He straightway fancies! himself impotent—and if he applies to one of the advertising Jewish scoundrels, will no doubt be told that he is so. The surgeon should cheer the patient’s spirits, and should inform him that his case is by no means uncommon—that most other nien feel the same incapability at times ; and he should give him a little nitric mthcr and cinnamon water, and make him promise to sleep with the lady three nights with- out touching her, which will sometimes prove an ett'ectual cure. Yet Pa * Vide Walshc, op. cit.; Hughes Bennett, op. olt., p. 126.