198 TUMOURS OP THE CELLULAR TISSUE. attended with great danger to life, if the patient is very old or weak —or if the carbuncle is very large, and seated on or near the head. Treatment.—The objects of the local treatment are, to afford a free exit to sloughs and discharge, and to excite the diseased tissues to healthy suppuration and granulation. In the first place, therefore, a free incision should at once be made completely through the tumour; —and if the tumour is extensive, it should be scored across by a second incision at right angles to the first. Then warm poultices should be applied ; and if there is much atony about the system, the yeast poul- tice, F. 155, or linseed meal poultice mixed with a little port wine, or beer-grounds, or unguentum resime, will be advisable. Stimulating ointments and lotions, especially the nitric acid lotion, F. 119, wiU complete the cure. The indications for the constitutional treatment are, first, to eva- cuate and correct the secretions of the alimentary canal. This is to be effected by purgatives, which should be given in repeated doses, till the motions become light yellow and bilious, instead of dark, grumous, and offensive;—or, at all events, so long as the patient feels lighter and better under their use. It is best to begin with a good dose of calomel, and a warm aperient draught; and to follow these with blue pill, and the warmer aperients, such as rhubarb, and decoction of aloes, with ammonia, F. 37. Verj' often an emetic, composed of a scruple of ipecacuanha, followed by a cupful of warm camomile tea, or F. 99, will be of service. When a feeble patient takes calomel for the pur- pose of unloading the liver, good beef-tea, or hot spiced wine and water, F. 27, should be administered before and during its operation to prevent faintness. Tonics, and alteratives must be given according to circumstances. Boils are miniature carbuncles. The best plan is to cut them through as soon as possible, poultice for a day or two, and then apply stimulating pl.asters; such as the empl. galbani, vel ammoniaci. A few doses of mild aperient medicine should be given; and if they con- tinue to come out in successive crops, a course of alteratives, such as Plummer’s pill, sarsaparilla, saline or sulphurous mineral waters, and sea-bathing ;—but the liq. potassae, or sodae carb., in moderate doses, three times a day, are generally considered of most utility. “ I was myself always troubled with boils,” says Hunter, “ until I took forty drops of this lixivium (of soda) night and morning in milk for two months, when all my boils disappeared, and I have since had no return of them.”* SECTION II.—TUMOURS. I. The Common Vascular Sarcoma, or simple fleshy or fibrous tumour, is a yellowish-white, finu, fieshy, or fibrous mass;—with few blood-vessels ;—often surrounded with a coat of condensed cellular Lectures in Palmer’s Ed., vol. i. p. 610,