344 DISEASES OP THE SPINE. With great tenderness on pressure ; and a peculiar dead sickening sen- sation like that of a carious tooth, if a smart blow be struck on the dis- eased part with the knuckles. Great distress is sometimes caused if the patient seats himself quickly (or bumps down into a chair as the vulgar say) so as to shake the spinal column; and this will soinetiiiies elicit a complaint from children, who give no other sign of pain or tenderness. If the dis- ease is situated in the dorsal vertebrae, it will moreover be accompanied with tightness of the chest, and difficulty of breathing ; and if in the cervi- cal, one or both arms may be palsied, and there will be a difficulty of supporting the head, which the patient steadies with his hands whenever he moves about. As the disease advances, the back becomes curved forwards, and the spinous processes of the dis- eased vertebral project back- wards ; so as to cause great deformity ; abscesses foiTU, and the patient exhibits great con- stitutional derangement and hectic. Coiiscqucnces.— 1. In favour- able cases, the diseased bones collapse and are anchylosed, as after ulceration of the cartilages of joints ; abscesses, if they form, are healed, or their matter is absorbed ; and the patient recovers, after many months, with more or less deformity, which is of course in- curable. 2. In some fatal cases the patient dies suddenly from two or three of the diseased vertebras giving waj% and crushing the spinal cord ; or from dislocation of the odontoid process, owing to ulceration of its ligament ; or from the bursting of abscesses into the spinal cord ; or from their bursting into the pleura or peritoneum ; but more frequently death is caused by slow irritation and exhaustion, consequent on the fonnation and bursting of psoas or lumbar .ab- scesses. Diagnosis,—This affection must not be confounded with its hyste- ric.al counterfeit spoken of in the ninth chapter. It nmy readily be distinguished from the distortion which arises from debility by noticing • This cut is sketched from a preparation of Mr. W. Fergusson’s, in the King's College Museum.