391 AMAUROSIS. en'sipelas or gout ; or the suppression of the menses from exposure to cold ; or the sudden suppression of perspiration ; or the drying up of an habitual ulcer or eruption ; or if it accompanies the inflammatory hydrocephalus that sometimes follows scarlatina ; in all these cases the antiphlogistic treatment must he adopted, and should be pursued with vigour. Bleeding, or cupping from the temple or mastoid process, should he performed at intervals. The bowels should be well cleared, the diet should be devoid of stimulating substances, and all employment of the atfected organ and all violent bodily exertion should be desisted from. Mercury should be administered—rapidly if the case be sudden in its attack, and present urgent inflammatory symptoms—but more slowly if it present a more chronic aspect ; but in either case it should be given so as to bring the s)'stem under its influence, and its effect should be kept up for some time. Small doses of tartarized antimony may sometimes be conveniently combined with the mercury (calomel gr. ii. ant. tart. gr. ^,) or may be given according to F. 62, 67, 60. Counter-irritants of all sorts are beneficial ; blisters, or the tartar- emetic ointment applied behind the ears, or to the nape of the neck— immersion of the feet in hot water and mustard—or an issue in the arms in chronic cases. 2. Atonic amaurosis may come on at the close of some long and e.xhausting illness, or ma}' be produced by great loss of blood, monor- rhagia, immoderate suckling, leucorrhoea, excessive venerj', or other debilitating circumstances. It may be distinguished by its being' attended with general debilitj', pallid lips, frequent trembling pulse, dilated pupils, and despondency of mind ; and the patient generally sees best after a meal or a few glasses of wine, and in a strong light. The practitioner must carefully examine into the causes of debility— whether they consist in some disorder of the system, or in depraved and unhealthy habits of life. The treatment consists, first, in sup- pressing any habitual discharge, or other source of exhaustion. Se- condly, in strengthening the system by change of air, tonics, quinine, steel and zinc, and especially by good living. At the same tune the abdominal secretions ihould be well regulated by aperients (such as aloes and rhubarb), that act copiously, but not drastically ; and the cutaneous and general circulation be promoted by exercise and bath- ing, especially the shower-bath. Camphor, or arnica, F. 190, asafee- tida, and other fetid stimulants, or strj'chnine in very small doses (gr. ^ig) may be of service. It is in this form, if in any, tliat local stimulants are applicable—such as exposing the eye to the vapour of ffither, or sal volatile (a teaspoonful of either being held in the hand), taking electric sparks from the eye ; stimulating snuff (F. 184), cata- plasms of capsicum to the temples ; strychnine applied to the temples after the skin has been denuded by a blister, beginning with gr. -i, and gradually increasing it to gr. i ; one or two drops of a solution of stiychnine (gr. ij. ad 3) aq. destill.) dropped twice daily on the con- junctiva which has been found useful in some cases ; friction of the