331 COMPRESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. tightness in the head, blood should be taken from the arm, or by- leeches or cupping from the head,-* the purgatives should be repeated as often as may be necessarj% with saline and antimonial draughts in the intervals ; and the head should be shaved and kept wet with evaporating lotions. As a general rule, after any severe blow on the head, the patient should observe a cautious antiphlogistic regimen for a month or six weeks—carefully keeping himself free from all fatigue, intemperance, and excitement. If violent delirium or convulsions come on after an injury to the head which has been treated by copious venaBsection, and if they are not relieved by further depletion, or if that seems inexpedient, they will probably yield to acetate of mor- phia. 3. In order to remove headache, deafness, giddiness, squinting, loss of memory, tinnitus aurium, and other remote consequences of concus- sion, a course of mild alterative mercurials; repeated blisters, or an issue or seton ; the shower-bath, change of air, general friction of the surface, and a most regular diet, are the remedies. SECTION III.— COMPRESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. Symptoms.—The symptoms of compression of the brain are those of apoplexy. They are, insensibility ; general palsy (sometimes, but rarely, confined to one side) ; dilated and insensible pupil ; slow, labouring pulse ; skin often hot and perspiring ; retention of the urine, through palsy of the detrusor urince ; involuntary discharge of fceces through palsy of the sphaictcr aid; and stertorous breathing, owing to palsy of the velum pendulum palati. Sometimes, however, the pupils are contracted, and sometimes one is contracted and the other dilated. Causes.—Compression (surgically considered) may be produced by three causes. 1. By extravasation of blood. 2. By fracture of the skull, with depression. 3. By suppuration -within its cavity. The symptoms of compression from extravusatcd blood, generally show themselves in the following manner: The patient receives a blow, and becomes stunned and insensible from the concussion, with extremely feeble pulse and cold skin. After a while he recovers his senses; but again in an hour or two he becomes sleepy, confused and insen- sible ; with slow stertorous breathing, slow pulse, and dilated pupils. The symptoms closely correspond with those of one form of apoplexy called the inyravescent; in which the patient suddenly feels an acute • -Whether the patient has recovered his consciousness or not, lie should bo^ bled if the pulse become hard, and the skin hot. But bleeding is not a remedy 1 for concussion itself: it merely removes its consequences; and if employed during a depressed state of the circulation, may induce epileptic convulsion, or perhaps death. In evoi-y ca.so of sudden insensibility, whether from disease or accident, the vulgar clamorously demand that the patient should bo bled; but the surgeon must be very ignorant or very' weak if he yields to their wishes.