DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 356 mation. The weak ung. hydr. nitric, oxyd., or lotion of arg. nit. (gr. ii. ad 3i) may be tried first in order to bring the conjunctiva into a healthy state—but if they do not succeed, a portion of the thickened conjunctiva must be removed by scissors. This failing, it may be necessary to cut out a triangular slip from the tarsus. 2. It may be caused by a cicatrix on the cheek,—that resulting from a burn for instance. But b}’ far the most common cause is the cicatrization resulting from the healing of abscesses at the edge of the orbit. Vari- ous operations have been suggested and practised for its removal, the most suc- cessful of which consist of the removal of the cicatrix and the subsequent trans- plantation of a portion of skin from the temple or the cheek after the manner described in the observa- tion on lost noses. It may also be necessary to remove a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsal cartilage.* VII. Lagophthal-mos (hare eye) signifies an in- ability to close the palpebrse. Sometimes it arises from the contraction of cicatrices, iind requires the same treat- ment as ectropion when arising from the same cause. But it sometimes depends upon inaction of the orbicu- laris muscle, through palsy of the portio-dura ; so that the levator palpebrae being unopposed, keeps the eye open. This may be caused by exposure to cold ; on the outside of a coach for instance ; in which case it is attended with numbness of the cheek, and generally subsides in a few days with aperients, nursing, and perhaps a blister behind the ear. But it may be caused by a tumour in the course of the nerve; by disease of that part of the temporal bone through which it passes ; —or by congestion within the head, like the following disease. • The uppermost of tlie accompanying cuts represents an ectropion caused by a cicatrix ; and tlie other sliows tlie successful results of the operation spoken of in the text. The author bogs to thank Mr. Dalrymplo, who was the operator in this case, for liLs kindness in allowing Dr. Westmacott to copy the drawings from his collection.