ULCERATION. G9 early period of the disease, the cellular tissue is found loaded with a limpid reddish serum. In a more advanced stage this fluid becomes thicker, and less highly coloured. Subseijuentlj'-, the cellular tissue is found to be gorged, partly with white semifluid matter, partly with a brownish purulent sanies, which is mingled with detached flakes of the sphacelated tissue. The muscles, and other structures in the vicinity, are discoloured and softened;—and the larger veins which permeate the diseased part, have their coats inflamed, and often in a state of suppuration. Diagnosis.—This disease is to be distinguished from the common phlegmonous abscess by its having a smooth and level surface, with- out any tendency to point;—also by the asthenic nature of the accompanying fever. Treatment.—This will be more fully discussed in the Chapter on Dissection Wounds (Part iii.ch. 9). It may, however, be summarily observ'ed, that leeches, hot fomentations, and free incisions,—emetics, purgatives, and enemata, followed by bark, opium, and wine, are the measures that are sanctioned by the most authoritative and experienced writers.* CHAPTER XL OF ULCERATION. SECT. I. OF THE PATHOLOGY OF ULCERATION. Pathology.—Ulceration consists in the progressive softening, and disintegration of successive layers of the ulcerating tissue. Like mortification, it may occur in two different ways. It may either be preceded by inflammation, or not. (1.) Injiammatory Ukeraiion.—Supposing the skin to ulcerate from the application of venereal poison, for instance. In the first place, its surface inflames, and exudes serum or unhealthy pus, which elevates the cuticle into a pimple or pustule. When the pustule is opened, there appears a little hollow, filled with a whitish or greyish tenacious matter, consisting of the substance of the skin itself, which has lost its vitality and is about to sepiuate, and of 13’mph or of unhealthy flaky pus with which it is infiltrated. If this is wiped off, the surface un- derneath is seen to be red, and it easily bleeds. Supposing the case to proceed, there is formed a chasm, eaten into irregular hollows, with intervening red eminences, which easily bleed if touched ; its edges * Viae two p.apcrs in tlio F.dinburgh Medical and Surgical Jonrn.al for 1825, vol. XXV.; Copland’s Diet. Art. Cellular Tis.suo ; James on Intl.ammntion ; Travers on Constitutional Irritation, and Rutter on Irritative Fever, Devon- port, 1825, which gives an account of an extraoialinary visitation of this disease in Plj-mouth dock-yard in 1S24.