438 DISEASES OF THE (ESOPUAGUS. wire—or of a piece of sponge moistened with a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and attached to a stout copper wire, as recommended by Sir C. Bell, are the remedies. The method of introducing the bougie is as follows; The patient sits upright, with the head thrown as far back as possible, and the mouth wide open. The bougie, which should be previously warmed in the hand and oiled, and gently curved, is passed down into the pharynx in such a manner that its point may slide along the vertebrae. In order that it may not excite cough by interfering with the epiglottis, the patient should be directed to pro- trude the tongue from the mouth as far as possible ; or to perform the act of deglutition just when the bougie is entering the pharynx. If it meets with an obstruction to its descent, the surgeon should slightly withdraw it, then again press it gently against the obstruction, in- creasing the pressure for a few minutes if it gives no pain. If it fail to pass, it should be taken out and its point be examined ; and if it bear the impress of a stricture, a smaller one should be tried. V. Ulceration of the oesophagus is gcnerall}' situated at its upper part, and on its posterior surface. It causes great ih/sphar/ia, and burning pain on the passage of food. If a bougie is passed, it meets with one obstruction just above the ulcer, and with another just below it, and its point returns marked with bloody pus, and presenting the ragged impression of the ulcer. Treatnvint.— Alteratives, counter-irritants, and nutrient enemata. The burning pain is sometimes relieved by swallowing small quantities of iced cream. VI. Malignant Disease.—“ Infiltrated scirrhus, deposited in a stratiform manner encircling the walls of the tube more or less com- pletely, and causing gradual diminution of its calibre,” is the most common form of malignant disease in this part.* It produces at its commencement the same symptoms as stricture, and must be treated in the same manner, by cautious dilatation. VII. Tuimours pressing on the cesophagns, whether abscesses, polypi, aneurisms, bronchocele, or enlargement of the bronchial lymphatic glands, will produce all the symptoms of organic stricture. Aneurisms and abscesses have been burst by the passage of bougies— with, of course, instant death in the former case, and relief in the latter. Before performing this operation, therefore, the chest ought to be well scrutinized by auscultation, to detect any unnatural pulsation or hndt; and any signs of embarrassed circulation or respiration should not be overlooked.+ VIII. Foreign Bodies, when fixed in the pharynx, or about the aperture of the larynx, or in the oesophagus, produce a sense of chok- * W.alslie, op. cit. p. 271. ■t Vide Sir E. Homo on Strictures, vols. i. and ii.; Monro on the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, &o.; Brodie on Local Nervous Allections {spamwdic slriclure) ; Mayo’s Pathology; Stokes in Cyclop. Pract. Med. vol. ii.; and Sir G. Bell’s Institutes of Surgory, vol. i.; Arrdwsmith’s ca.se of Polypus in ffisopha- gu.s, Med. Oaz., N. S., p. 165.