127 TREATMENT OP GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. limb; then the patient complains of pain and numbness; and the parts above those which are actually dead become slightly tumefied and dis- coloured. In the course of three or four days heat and redness super- vene, and the swelling greatlj’’ increases. The constitution now be- comes atlected with restlessness, anxiety, and fever;—the swelling ra- pidly increases, with great pain, the skin being yellowish and streaked witli bluish lines. The patient mostly sinks ;—there being but few cases in which, if the first stage has passed by, and the constitution has become affected (as indicated by the rapid extension of the gan- grenous swelling), there will be power to arrest the disease, and form a line of separation. Secondary Ilcemorrhaye.—This is the last complication of gun-shot wounds that will here require notice. It may be caused,in con- sequence of excessive arterial action, by which the coagula in the mouths of the divided vessels are displaced. This may occur at any time from the first day till the fifth. Secondly, by the separation of a slough from a large artery. This may occur from the fifth till the twentieth day; and it is this peculiar variety of secondary haemor- rhage which is generally thought to be so frequent in its occurrence, but which, as Mr. Guthrie asserts, does not happen in more than three or four out of a thousand cases. Thirdly, from ulceration of the coats of an arter}'; and this may happen at any time until the wound is healed. The fourth and most common variety is a real iniktmmutory hcBinorrhayc; the blood not being poured out from any particular trunk, but exuding from the general surface of a granulating wound. This kind of haemorrhage may be caused by everything capable of exciting the circulation;—by excess in food, drink, or muscular exer- tion, and particularly by venery;* and the same causes will, of course, tend greatly to induce either of the other varieties.—It is most liable to occur in persons of a sanguine temperament, and especially if they have been exposed to the close air of a crowded hospital. The hmmorrhage is preceded in these cases (and in the other varieties also, if partially induced by the same causes) by pain, heat, and throbbing of the wound. treatjMENt op gun-shot wounds. Of Simple Cases.—When a ball has passed completely through some common fleshy part, such as the thigh or buttock, the wound should be sponged clean;—and when the ordinary haemorrhage is • The tendency of the gi-eat excitement produced by the venereal orgasm to cause hiemorrhago is well known. Hennen (p. 18U) enumerate.s three cases; in the fir.st of wliicli, fatal liEemorrliage from the lung.s took place from this cause; in the second, “an ollicer died from uncontrollalde bleeding from an amputated ann, from the .same;” in tlie ttiird, “a young ollicer with an am- putated thigli, which was healed within half an inch, had, seven weeks after the amputation, an hiemorrhage so violent from an excess of this nature, and a subsequent opening up of the stump to such an extent, as detained him under cure for three months longer.” Instances of death in coitu are mostly to bo assigned to the same cause.