467 amussat’s operation. placed over it. In a case in which the author operated, the patient pointed beforehand with perfect accui-acy to the spot where the obstruction was found. Should the operator either fail in finding an obstruction, or in relieving it, tlie desperate resource remains of opening the bowel, as low down as possible, and stitching the opened part to the edge of the wound in the parietes so as to establish an artificial anus.* VIII. Amussat’s Operation.—When an obstruction is situated in the rectum, or sigmoid flexure ; or when the rectum is imperforate in a new-born child, and cannot be opened from below, the colon may be opened in the left lumbar region, so as to come upon it where it is uncovered by peritonmum. A transverse incision is generally made, above and parallel to the crest of the ilium, commencing two inches from the spine, and carrying it outwards for five or six, through skin and fat, and latissimus dorsi and quadratus lumborum muscles, and the fascia. When the bowel is reached, a ligature should be passed through it, to steady it, and then it should be opened with a bistomy. Mr. Hilton proposes a “vertical incision three inches or less in length, terminating below at half an inch above the crest of the ilium, parallel with, and an inch and a quarter distant from the outer edge of the erector spin®, which enables him to bring into view the outer border of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and then to expose and open the colon which lies in front of that muscle.” This latter operation was originally proposed by CaUisen; that by the transverse incision by Amussat.f IX. In a case of acute inflammatory disease of the Appendix Cffici, arising apparently from the impaction of a small mass of feculent matter, Mr. Hancock made an incision close above Poupart’s ligament into the abdominal cavity, and gave issue to some offensive serum, to the great relief of the patient, who was moribund, but recovered. He proposes a similar operation for the purpose of letting acrid effusions drain awaj', in cases of unhealthy peritonitis, and the hint is a valuable one.+ • See,a most able ami comprehensive paper by Mr. B. Pliillips, Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxxi.; an account of a case by the author in the s.ame vol.; and of others by Dr. Uoiding Bird and Mr. Hilton in vol. xx.x. ; by Mr. Fergusson, Lancet, 1850, vol. i. p. 128. Mr. Phillips's paper contains copious bibliographical notices, and a catena of opinions. t See report of cases of this operation perfonned successfully by Mr. Field and Mr. Clarkson, read before the Med. Chir. Soc., Lancet, 1850, vol. i. p. 03 ; ca.ses by Teale of I.eeds, Prov. Med. Joum. ; Evans of Derby, Aled. Chir. 'Trans, vol. xxviii.; South's Chelius, vol. ii. p. 328. t A short account of disease of the Appendi.x Coeci, cured by operation; by Henry Hancock. Loud. 1848.