345 LUMBAU ABSCESSES. that the curvature is abrupt and angular, whereas in the latter affection it is gradual and rounded, and implicates nearly the whole spine. Treatment.—1. Rest in the horizontal posture is absolutely neces- sar3’-. A water-bed or fracture-bed may be used, if easy or convenient. 13ut the patient must not be taught to lie on his back, nor must any means be used with a view of straightening the spine, as they would merely impede the natural process of recovery, by preventing the re- mains of the diseased vertebrae from falling together. A bandage con- taining strips of whalebone, and reaching from the head to the hips, is of use in keeping the trunk at perfect rest. 2. Issues should be made and kept open with caustic on each side of the spinous processes of the diseased vertebrae if there is any complaint of pain : or of irri- tation of the spinal cord. In scrofulous cases they do little good. Leeches maj' relieve occasional accessions of pain or tenderness. 3. At the same time, the constitution must be thoroughly supported bj' good diet, and by cod-liver oil, lime water, sarsaparilla and steel, and other tonics and alteratives, as directed for scrofula. III. Lu.mbar and Psuas Abscess.—These are abscesses arising commonlj' from that diseased condition of the spine which has just been described, although abscesses may occur in the same situation from constitutional debility and other causes, without spinal disease. When the connections of the various muscles and fascite to the spine are considered, the variety of courses wliich these abscesses take, are veiy intelligible. Sometimes they point in the back (constituting lumbar abscess if low down); sometimes the matter makes its way be- tween the abdominal muscles, and maj' point at any part of the abdo- minal parietes ; sometimes it enters the sheath of the psoas muscle, passes downwards in its sheath, causes absorption of that muscle, and points below Poupart's ligament, forming a tumour which diminishes or disappears when the patient lies down, and receives an impulse on coughing. This is called psoas abscess. In some few cases it does not e.xtend below Poupart’s ligament, but can be felt through the abdo- minal parietes as an oblong tumour in the situation of the psoas muscle ; in other cases it extends downwards into the thigh, on either side, or in front, of the femoral vessels. Sometimes it reaches so low as the knee ; sometimes passes backwards to the nates ; sometimes through the pelvis and sacro-sciatic notch to the nates ; and some- times it has discharged itself through the bladder or rectum.* In all cases of doubtful diagnosis the evidence of disease of the vertebra, and of rigidity of the psoas muscle, or of inability to hop on the * See Stanley, op. cit. p. 331. Mr. Stanley points out the diagno.sis between the x>seas abscess and the iliac abscess ; which latter is a coilection of matter in tho cellular tissue between the peritonteum and the fascia iliaca, or between that fascia and the iliacus muscle. It generally arise.s from cold, strains, or falls, or from general debility; sometimes from spinai disease, but it is not so regularly connected with the iast cause, as psoas abscess is. It generaily attacks adults, and often women after parturition. It usually points above Poupart’s ligament, near the anterior superior spine of tho ilium; and tho dillicuity of e.xtenUiug the thigh, so constant in psoas abscess, is absent.