CATARACT. 379 course some little diversity from the ordinary sjnnptoms. For in- stance, the patient sees best in a bright liglit, when the pupil is con- tracted ; and, moreover, he is apt to see objects double, or distorted, in consequence of irregular reflections of light from the opake streaks. 3. Soft cataract,—the lens of the consistence of soft cheese or cream, and of a gray or bluish, or pure white coloiu', without any amber tint. This variety is generally met with in congenital cases, and, in flict, in all persons under forty ; it causes a greater degree of blindness than the hard variet)''; moreover, the lens, being swelled, projects against the iris, and interferes with its motions. 4. Capsular cataract. Opacity of the capsule is said to occur in spots or streaks, with less opake intervals. It is not unfrequcntly the result of a slow inflamma- tion, which may be accompanied with pain in the eye, and signs of congestion in the head ; it may be produced also by inflammation extending from the iris or conjunctiva. Opacity of the anterior por- tion may be seen immediately behind the iris, and has a glistening, chalky, or pearly white appearance. That of the posterior appears at some little distance behind the pupil, and presents a concave striated siu’face, of a dull j'ellowish appearance. 5. Capsulo-lenticular cataract is very common,—in fact, entire opacity of the capsule is always followed by opacity of the lens. Treatment.— The cataract must be removed by operation. No other treatment is of any avail to get rid of the disease, although perhaps its progress may be retarded by counter-irritation, and sti- mulating applications to increase the flow of tears, and sternutatories. It is, however, a general rule not to operate till the cataract is mature, —that is, not whilst the degree of vision is sufficient for ordinary pur- poses ; more particularly if the patient is very old and feeble, or if one eye is already lost; because under these circumstances a failure of the operation would entail utter blindness.- Therefore the patient' should assist his vision by dropping into the eye one or two drops of a carefullj’' filtered solution of extract of belladonna (3i. ad ji.) in distilled water, night and morning, so as to dilate the pupil, and defer the operation till, despite of that aid, his blindness is complete. Projtiosis.—This will be favourable if the patient is in good health, of a spare frame and temperate habits; if the iris moves freely, and if the retina seems perfectly sensible to light. On the other hand, it will be doubtful if there are signs of vascular disturbance in the eye or head—if the iris is motionless or altered in colour, or if it is ad- herent to the capsule; or if the cataract is complicated with amaurosis, synchj'sis, or glaucoma. Preparation.—Before operating, the patient should be put into as perfect a state of health as possible.' The bowels should bo cleared, the secretions be regulated, and bleeding an;J: low diet be enjoined if i the habit is inflammatory. Moreover, the operation should always bo ( performed in mild weather. I There are three methods of operating;—1. extraction; 2. depression I (pt couchinp)) and, 3. the operation for causing absorption.