PnAQEDiENIO ULCER. 79 •swelled, and red;—others with atony and debility, the margin being ] pale, dusky, or livid. Causes. —Tliis disease may be induced either by extraordinary local i irritation, or by some peculiar constitutional disorder. It may attack ] primary or secondary venereal sores in consequence of filth, intemper- : ance, the abuse of mercury, or of a weakened and vitiated, or scrofu- 1 lous habit, or of some peculiarity in the venereal virus. Sometimes it , appears in the throat after scarlatina;—it may attack a blistered sur- I face when the constitution has greatly suft'ered from an acute and ex- I hausting disease, as measles, &c.;—sometimes it atfects the mouth or 1 genitals of children, constituting caiicrun oris, noma., &c. Treatment.—If the habit is inflammatory, and the pulse full and 1 strong, bleeding and the antiphlogistic regimen should be employed, , and opiate lotion be applied to the sore. If the condition of the system is the reverse, tonics and narcotics (F. 1, 2, 3) should be administer- ed, and the diseased surface should be destroyed by nitric acid in the manner to be presently described. X. Sloughing PiiAGEDniNA, or Hospital Gangrene, seems, says Mr. Lawrence, to be the state of phagedaena carried to its fullest I extent. Its causes are, (I) (jreut local irritation, combined with a vitiated state of the constitution. (2) Contagion ; that is, the appli- I cation of poisonous matter to a wound; and (3) infection; that is, the reception of poisonous miasmata into the blood. We shall first treat of it as it occurs sporadically in civil practice, where it bears the name of sloughing ghugedeena ; and next, of those more serious visita- tions that decimate the patients in crowded naval or military hospitals, whence it derives its other name, hosjtital gangrc7ie.* In the cases seen in civil practice, the disease is mostly seated in or near the genital organs; in the cleft of the nates, in the groin, or at the upper and inner part of the thigh. It often, but far from invariably, supervenes on syphilitic ulcers; especially in young prostitutes, who have been exposed to cold and wet, and privation of solid food, and the abuse of ardent spirits. It is especially liable to bo induced by the too free administration of mercury, or by intemperance and ex- posure to wet during a mercurial com'se. The worst cases, however, * In civil hospitals any serious attack of hospital gangrene is aimost un- heard of. Yet, it occasionally threatens to appear. Thus, Mr. Liston says in 1844, of a stump that w.as heaiing kindly in University College Hospital, that all of a sudden it assumed a carious appearance; became enonnou.sly swollen, and profuse iLannorrhago took place. “ Not many days passed before a number of other wounds as.sumed the same appearance ; the parts got putfy around tliem ; tlie discharge Ijecame slimy and tenacious, very putrid, and Ijloody feetid ga.'j filled the cellular tissue around them. Tlicy extended rapidly, presenting a circular fonn.”—Lectures in Lancet for 1845, vol. i. p. 67. Mr Arnott witnessed three cases in the Middlesex Hospital in 1835. Quoted in South’s Chelius, vol. i. p. 07. The disease appeared in St. ilartholomew’s Hospital and in St! George’s in 1847. C. Hawkins, Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. iv. p. 1020. An .account of its ravages in the IJritisli camp after tlio battle of Uerozepore, by Mr. ’Taylor, Surgeon to the 2'Jtli Rogt., is quoted by Guthrie, Lancet, 1848, vol ii p. 714.