131 TREATMENT OP GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. but by experience; and the general experience of modem military surgeons has decided that amputation when necessary ought to he primary. We may gather from Mr. Guthrie’s* works, that tlie loss after secondary operations is at least three times as great as that after primary. Hunter, however, and some surgeons before his time, advocated se- condary amputation ; the arguments in favour of their practice being, that persons in a rude state of health do not bear operations so well as those who have been labouring under some chronic Suppurating com- plaint of the part to be removed; and that if the patient is not able to support the inflammation arising from the accident, it is more than probable that he would not be able to support the amputation and its consequences;+ and further, that the patient is liable to sink sooner or later from the shock of the amputation speedily succeeding that of the injury. IMoreover, Mr. Alcock, surgeon to the Anglo-Spanish legion, found in Ms practice, that secondary was less fatal than pri- mary amputation.! But it may be seen at a glance, that there is not one reason in favour of secondary amputation that is worth much. For, in the first place, it must be evident that many will die of the inflammation of an extensive lacerated and contused wound, who would not die of the minor inflammation arising from a clean incision ; and that many will die of secondary amputation, when exhausted by suffering, and weak- ened by confinement in an hospital, who might have survived a pri- mary operation. In the second place, IMr. Alcock’s experience in Spain is neutralized by another isolated set of cases, viz., the second- ary amputations after the battle of Navarino, all of which proved fatal.§ And lastly, it must be recollected that the question is,— not whether a hundred men just wounded and requiring amputa- tion are more likely to survive it than a hundred who have gone through the ordeal of six weeks in an hospital ;—but whether the first hundred would live to that period ; which most probably they would not. When amputation is decided upon, it should then be primary. But there are two errors as to time, that even here must be avoided. The first is, that of amputatim) too soon ;—of “ letting the knife follow the shot,” before the patient is in any measure recovered from the im- mediate shock and collapse ; the second is, that of waiting too long, so that he becomes exhausted by pain. Therefore, when a patient is brought to the surgeon with a limb knocked off, and with a low pulse, cold skin, hiccup, fainting, or other symptoms of extreme collapse, the first endeavour should be to comfort him ; to explain the nature of his • Gattirio, op. cit. p. 224. See also Clinical Lecture in Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 622. flSIunter on Gun-shot tVounds. ! Notes on the Medical History of the British Legion in Spain, by Rutherford Alcock, K.T.S. Lond. 1838. ^ Lizars’ Practical Surgery.