n "Vvwu*- ? ■ ■' ' ■ I 434 DISEASES OF THE GUMS.—EPULIS. teeth loosen, and at last fall out. These consequences are sometimes speedy, and are attended with suppuration in the alveoli, but more frequently they are slow, the teeth dropping out one by one in the course of years. Treatment.—The gums should be imloaded by deep and free scari- fications and repeated leechings; the bowels should be well cleared by a course of purgatives ; and gargles should be employed to correct the secretions of the mouth, and excite the vessels to contract. Whilst there is much pain and soreness, dec. papav. vel anthemid., or three drachms of nitre dissolved in a pint of barley-water will answer best. Subsequently, recourse may be had to F. 109,-111, &c. XVI. Gum Boil {alveolar abscess, parulis) is a small abscess com- mencing in the socket of a tooth, and bursting through the gum, or sometimes through the cheek. It is usually caused by the irritation of a dead or carious tooth. Treatment. — Fomentations; removal of the tooth, if much de- cayed ; and a puncture as soon as matter can be detected. If the tooth is extracted soon, the sac of the abscess very often comes away with it. Xyil. Epulis signifies a tumour formed by an hypertrophy of the gum, without any apparent alteration in its structure. It generally commences between two teeth, which it gradually separates, then loosens, and finally displaces, and may spread so as to involve several of them. This tumour is indolent, painless, and of slow growth ; but it ought always to be extirpated without dela}', because it is sure to increase, and might become the seat of offensive ulceration, or even of malignant disease. Treatment.—The tooth on either side must be extracted, and the tumour entirely cut out. A portion of the alveolar process must be removed likewise, if necessaiy, in order to render the extirpation complete. A similar tumour is sometimes formed when a dead portion of the root of a tooth remains in its socket, .and the gum has healed over it. The tumour should be entirely removed with the knife, and the extraneous body should be sought for, and be extracted if possible. Malignant tumours of the gums are exceedingly rare ; they will, how- ever, be recognised by their rapid growth, and tendency to haimor-