421 FISSURE OP TUE PALATE., mouth to tlie angular process of the frontal bone. The flap is then dissected up, the infraorbital nerve divided, the inferior oblique muscle and other parts separated from the floor of the orbit, and supported with a narrow bent copper spatula; the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and its junction with the malar, are divided with strong bone forceps (or, if the malar is to be removed, its junction with the frontal and zygoma must be divided instead) a notch must be made with strong scissors in the alveolar process of the middle incisor tooth (which should be extracted before the operation); then the anterior half of the roof of the mouth must be divided with a pair of strong cutting forceps, one blade being put into the nostrils, the other into the mouth. The tumour, being thus loosened, is then to be forcibly moved, and its remaining attachments are to be divided with the knife, carefully preserving the velum palati. If the floor of the orbit is not implicated, it should be permitted to remain: and for this purpose, instead of cutting through the nasal process of the supe- rior maxilla, the bone must be sawn horizontally just below the orbit. During the operation, the common carotid is to be compressed, to prevent haimorrhage. After it, the facial, and any other arteries that require it, are to be tied, the chasm to be filled with lint, and the wound closed with sutures.* V. Fissure of the Palate.—As the upper lip may be fissured, through defective development, so also may the various parts con- stituting the hard and soft palate. In some cases the uvula merely is fissured ; in others the cleft extends forwards as far as the lips, and may be combined with a hare-lip. The fissure in the hard and soft jialates is invariably in the mesial line, but when it extends forwards through the alveoli, it diverges somewhat to one side. In a few cases the fissure is double m front, so that it may, as a whole, be compared to the letter Y, the two lines in front having the intermaxillary bone between them. This alTection, when extensive, necessarily causes very great diffi- culty in sucking and swallowing ; and if the child grows up, it causes a ver}' serious impediment to articulation. Treatment.—\VTien the fissure extends from back to front entirely through the hard and soft palate and lip, the lip should be operated upon early, in the manner described when speaking of hare-lip. The fissure in tlie soft palate may at puberty be united by a somewhat similar ope- ration, which is known by the name of Staphyloraphy, and which has lately been very greatly improved by Mr. AV. Fergusson, who for the first time has submitted the malformed parts to dissection, and thus has enabled us clearly to understand the operation, and to overcome the dilficulties which attend it. It has been often remarked that the action of the muscles upon the edges of the fissure in the soft palate was difficult of explanation. If • Vide Forgussou’s Practical Surgery, 2ik1 edit. p. 507; also Lancet, Feb. and March, 1812, .also Liston on Tumours of the Face, Med. Cliir. Trans. VOl. XX.