DISEASES OP THE EAR. 406 SECTION III.—OF AFFECTIONS OF THE TYMPANUM AND INTERNAL EAR, AND OF THE CAUSES OF DEAFNESS. I. Acute Inflaaimation of the raembrana tympani* and tympanal cavity may be caused by cold, by sea-bathing, or by mechanical injury. Symptoms.—Sudden and intense pain in the ear ; often so excrucia- ting as to produce delirium ; increased by coughing, sneezing, or swallowing; and generally coming on first at night, and alwjiys worse at night; feeling of fulness in the ear ; tenderness and soreness in its vicinity ; tinnitus aurium, that is, unnatural noises of various sorts, heard by the patient; deafness, partial or complete (except that in some rare cases there is morbid sensibility to sound), and violent fever. On examination during the first stage the meatus is found more or less red, swelled and tender, and dr}'-; the membrana tym- pani, dull, opake, and vascular. If the disease goes on from bad to worse, the mastoid cells, petrous bone and dura-mater may be involved, and death result from suppuration on the brain or cerebellum. In other cases suppuration may occur in the tympanum, and ulceration or sloughing of the membrane, which gives great relief by permitting the escape of matter pent up in the cavity ; or in others of less severity, the membrane may be left thickened and opake, from infiltration with lymph, and with adhesions blocking up the tympanum ; or it may ulcerate and suppurate, and give rise to protracted otorrhoea. Treatment.—Leeches repeatedly applied with a leech-glass around and within the meatus, and before and behind the auricle ; fomenta- tions, poultices, and steam-bath; purgatives ; mercury, so as to affect the system gently ; subsequent!}' blisters behind the ear, and to the nape, and iodide of potassium. F. 94, 95, &c., or F. 63, 87. Should the acute symptoms be unmitigated by ordinary measures, and especially if there is fulness or tumefaction, or obscure sense of fluc- tuation over the mastoid process, j\Ir. Wilde recommends an incision, an inch long, to be made with a stout scalpel through the periosteum, down to the bone. It is most generally required parallel to and an inch from the attachment of the auricle. II. Chronic Inflammation.—The researches of Mr. Toynbee have shown most conclusively, that by far the majority of cases of deafness depend on changes wrought in the tympanic cavity by chronic inflammation. Mr. Toynbee divides the diseased appearances in the tympanic cavity into three stages. In the first stage, the lining mem- brane retains its natural delicacy of structure, but its vessels are en- larged and tortuous ; blood is sometimes effused into its substance, or on its attached surface, or sometimes between it and the membrane of the fenestra rotunda ; and sometimes lymph is effused on its free • Mi/rinoiiis of Wilde. Vide Contril)utious to Aural Surgery, by W. R. Wilde, from Rub. Jourii. Med. Sc., No. ix.