CONTRACTION OK TIIK URETHRA. oil syniptoms will be pretty eviflent. The piitient will be unable to make water; or if he atternpta it, the urine will U; extravaftaterl into the perin.-eiirn and serotiirn. 'I'he treatment consists in retaining a catheter in the urethra, and incising the [>erinfcum if urine has b^:cn extra vasji ted. 111. b'lSTU/.A IV I’khiV/Ko, or llrinary signifies an ojien- ing from the [lerin.'eurn into the urethra, through which the urine dribbles when the patient makes water. It is a frequent coiis<;quence of urinary abscess and extravasation. Trcnlmi’.til.—The first and most essential measure is, to restore the urethra to a healthy state, and to dilate any strictures that may haji- pen to exist, by the bougie. When this has liecn done, the fistula should be stimulated to granulate by injections of arg, nit., or by fiasv ing a heated wire into it; and the external orifice should fie fK;casiori- ally touched with potass, s/, as not to allow it to heal ficfore the whole track is closed—otherwise fresh abscesses will fonn. fn extreme ctises the urethra must be laid open, as before direcU'd. .Sometimes there is a UM fistula in perinreo ; that is, a small nar- row fistula, opening inUi the urethra, but not exU-mally. It is fK;ca- sionally inflamed and tender; and may be felt as a small tumour in the perin.'eurn ; [Krrhaps the size of a hors/;-bean. It is attended with more or less discharge from the urethra. The trfsstrnent consists in laying the tumour op<-n, and dilating any strictures that exist, .S<imetimes a fistulous communication fonns between the urethra and rectum. 'J'his may Ik: known by air passing through the urethra. It is to be treaUul by dilating the urethra, and then perhaps a hiated wire may be introduced into the fistula from the rectum, in order to clos/; it by the adhesive inflammation. HBCTION IV.—OR HOME f/THKIl ARRKC.TIOV.S OF TIIK .MAI.F. nilF.TIIRA. I. Co.VTRACTIOV OF THE I.TiF.THHA FOI.I.OWIVO IVJI.TIIKH, Slicll as blows on the [lerinaium, must fx; trcfited in the same way as per- manent stricture. II. 1''ai,se I'ahhaok.— 'I'his may be produced by using too small a sound, and pushing it out of the urethra, or by the misuse of caustic bougies. 'I'here is nothing to be done for the falv: passage, but the stricture which was the origin of it must be treaUrd either with the meuillic sound, or by keeping in a small c.atheter. Wben the surgeon suspects that he has pushed an instnirnent out of the right pass.'ige, he ought to leave the urethra untouched for at least a week. HI. II/KMOitiiiiAOF. FROM THF. L'kf.tiira may U; CJiiiscd by the rude introduction of bougies, or by injj)ries from without, or by the sepanation of a slough formed by the caustic bougie ; or, lastly, by a nipture of blood-vessels during acute chordee. If the application of cold does not check it, pressure may be tried. A flat piece of cork should be pressed by the patient against the pcrinaium far back, and