SQUINTING. 396 the left. If, however, they were by accident to persist in using one only, it would become stronger by use, and the other weaker by disuse; and the weaker might squint. In this manner, squinting has b^en known to occur after one eye has been for along”time shaded in consequence of an inflammatory attack ; which shows the expediency of always covering both eyes when a shade is necessary. 4. If there happens to bo an opacity on the cornea of one c}'e, and that eye is the better one, the patient will sometimes continue to use it for ordinary vision, but for that puqiose is obliged to distort it so as to remove the corneal opacitj' from the visual axis. 5. Squinting, like almost every other conceivable consequence of defect of nervous in- fluence, is sometimes a religue of fevers and the exanthemata. 6. It may be induced by irritation or disorder of the stomach and bowels, teething, worms, constipation, and so forth; it may, moreover, be ■ caused by fright or violent fits of passion ; and in some children it ^always appears when the health is out of order, and disappears when jit is restored. Lastly, it may be caused by some disorder of the 'circulation in the brain. Thus it is pretty frequently the precursor ' of acute hydrocephalus or convulsions in children; and when it is associated with dropping of one or both eyelids, and with unusual sleepiness, or torpor of the intellect, or faltering in the gait, some ' mischief within the head may faudy be anticipated. Treatment.—If the aiTection be recent, it may perhaps be removed by judicious medical treatment. The patient should be secluded from the society of every squinting person who might be imitated. Any disorder in the stomach or bowels should be removed by purgatives, antacids, and tonics; and if the patient is a weakly child, and if the squinting has followed a severe illness, a course of steel wine, or small doses of sulphate of zinc, may be of service. An endeavour shoidd be made to strengthen and exercise the squinting eye, bj" covering the tsound one with a light shade for one or two hours every day; but this must be done with moderation, because it has happened, that .whilst a squinting ej’e has been cured by this means, the sound one jhas been we.akened by seclusion, and has been made to squint instead. It is a useful plan to make the patient exercise his eye before a glass in the following manner. He should be told to close the sound eye, and look at a particular point with the squinting one. Then let him open the sound eye. Upon this, the squinting eye will immediately diverge ; but by perseverance the patient may educate it, till he can command it, and keep it panallel with the other. If a child is begin- ning to squint, close application to study should be interdicted; plenty of exercise should bo taken in the open air ; and if the sight is short, a pair of shallow concave spectacles should be used. But if the squii^is of long standing and is habitual, very little good can be done unl^5 lit® internal rectus muscle is divided; or the external rectus, if the squint is divergent. Ibis operation will be of equal efficacy, whether the squint is produced by spasm of one muscle, or by weakness of its antagonist. It is easily performed in the follow-