AMPUTATION OF TUB FOOT. .5<)2 first making a transverse incision along the dorsal aspect of the meta- tarsal bones, dividing the tendons and lateral ligaments of each joint in succession; and then, the phalanges being dislocated upwards, the knife is placed beneath their metatarsal extremities, and made to cut out a flap from the skin on the plantar surface, sufficient to cover the heads of the metatarsal bones. The arteries are to be tied, and the foot laid on its outer side, so that the discharge may escape more readily. 3. Amputation of the metatarsal hone of the great toe is performed precisely like the operation for the removal of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. It is better, if circumstances permit, to cut through the bone, than to disarticulate it from the internal cuneiform bone, and it may be observed that, in dividing the metatarsal bones of the great or little toes, or the metacarpal bones of the fore or little finger, the forceps should be held obliquely, so as not to leave any prominent angle. 4. Amputation of all the nwiatarsal hones is performed in the fol- lowing manner: The exact situation of the articulation of the great toe to the inner cuneiform bone (to which the tendon of the tibialis anticus may serve as a guide) being ascertained, a semi-lunar incision, with the convexity forwards, is made down to the bone, across the instep, fi'om a point just in front of it, to the outside of the tubero- sity of the fifth metatarsal bone. The flap of skin thus formed being turned back, the bistoury is to be passed round behind the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone, so .'>s to divide the external ligaments which connect it with the cuboid. The dorsal ligaments are next to be cut through, and then the remaining ones, the bone being depressed. The fourth and third metatarsal bones are to be disarticulated in a similar manner, dividing their ligaments with the point of the knife, and taking care not to let the instrument become locked between the bones. The first metatarsal is next to be attacked, and lastly the second, the extremity of which, being locked in between the three cuneiform, will be more difficult to dislodge. Perhaps it may be con- venient to saw it across. ^V'hcn all the five bones are detached, the surgeon completes the division of their plantar ligaments, and slightly separates the textures which adhere to their under surface with the point of the knife, and then, the foot being placed horizontally, he puts the blade under the five bones, and carries it forwards along their in- ferior surface, so as to form a flap from the sole of the foot sufficient to cover the denuded tarsal bones. The flap should be about two inches wide on the inner side and one on the outer. 5. Amputation may be performed through the tarsus, so as to remove the navicular and cuboid bones, with all the parts in front of them. This is commonly called Chnpurt's operation. In the first place, the articulation of the cuboid with the os calcis (which lies about mid- way between the external malleolus and the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone), and that of the navicular with the astragalus— (which will be found just behind the prominence of the navicular bone