AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. 587 lastly swept round the bone, to divide any remaining fibres. The division of the bone, ligature of the arteries, and treatment of the stump as before. V. Amputation at the Shoulder may be perfomied in several manners. 1. The patient being seated in a chair and well supported, or, which is better, being placed on a firm table, with the shoulder elevated, and projecting beyond its edge, and the subclavian artery being compressed, the surgeon enters a long straight knife at the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle, an inch below the acromion. From this point, he thrusts it through the muscle, across the outside of the joint, and brings out the knife at the posterior margin of the a.villa. If the left side is operated on, the knife must be entered at the posterior margin of the axilla, and be brouglit out at the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle. Then, by cutting downwards and out- wards, the external flap is made. The origins of the biceps and triceps, and insertions of the infra and supra spinatus, are next cut through, and the joint is laid open. Finally, the blade of the knife, being placed on the inner side of the head of the bone, must be made to cut the inner flap. 2. The covering for the exposed part of the scapula, in the pre- ceding operation, was obtained from the deltoid. But it may also be obtained from the muscles in front or behind, supposing the deltoid to be implicated in the disease or injury which demands the operation. One elliptical incision may be carried from beneath the middle of the acromion to the posterior border of the axilla, and another to the anterior border. These flaps being dissected up, the head of the bone may be turned out of the socket, and the remaining soft parts be divided ; or the bone may be sawn through just beneath its neck. An assistant should be directed to grasp the flap which contains tlie axillary artery as soon as it is divided ; because the pressure above the clavicle is generally not sufficient to stop the circulation. VI. Amputation at the Elbow is performed by passing the knife through the muscles in front of the joint, and cutting upwards and forwards, so as to make a flap of them. Then the operator (who stands on the inner side for the right arm, and vice versa) makes a transverse incision behind the joint. He next cuts through the external lateral ligament, and enters the joint between the head of the radius and external condyle, then divides the internal lateral ligament, and, lastly, saws through the oleeranon, the apex of which, with the triceps attached to it, is of course left in the stump. VII. Amputation of the Fore-arm should always be performed as near the wrist as possible. 1. Circular.— The limb being supported with the thumb upper- most, and an assistant drawing up the skin, a circular incision is made through it down to the fascia. When the skin has again been re- tracted as much as possible, the muscles are divided liy a second circular incision ; the interosseous parts and the remaining fibres are next cut through with a catline ; the flesh is drawn up with a three-