N^EVUS. 314 towards them. The large ones pulsate synchronous with the heart’s action. They are much increased in size by anything that increases the activity of the circulation; as the cries of children, and the violent exertion of adults. On the application of the stethoscope, pulsation is heard as in common aneurismal tumours, and a sound which differs from that of the common aneurism, being loud, rough, and whizzing, and which being once heard can never be mistaken.” Their course and termination are also the same. Sometimes they remain for a long time stationary; but in general, gradually enlarge, and distend the skin, and at last ulcerate or slough, and cause the patient’s death by repeated hfemorrhage. Treatment.—The cure of these diseases may be effected either by exciting the adhesive inflammation in the diseased structure, so as to obliterate the distended vessels, or by extirpation wdth the ligature or knife: the former class of remedies being best adapted for nsevi under the skin, the latter for those which implicate the skin itself. Of the former class, the best remedy is the scton; and the best way of using it, is to pass two or three threads, with a common sewing needle, in different directions across the tumour, withdraw them as soon as they have excited suppuration, and then pass others through other parts of the tumour. If a larger needle is used, it should be straight and flat, with sharp edges, and should be made to drag as much silk as it can possibly carry, so as to fill the w'ound, and pre- vent haemorrhage. Some surgeons dip the threads in croton oil or in a solution of lunar caustic, but this seems unnecessary. On a similar principle the naevus may be pimctwred with the point of a lancet, and a fine probe which has been dipped in melted nitrate of silver, or a needle heated to a black heat, may be passed through it in various directions ; or its substance may be simply broken up with a cataract needle. Pressure by means of a smooth surface of ivory or sheet-lead, confined by strips of plaster and a bandage, is a good remedy, if the naevus is small, and situated over a bone, so that it can be applied uni- formly and effectually. The injection of an astringent fluid by means of Anel’s syringe, has been proposed, but has caused the death of a child by convulsions. Vaccination has also been used for this disease; but it requires that the whole surface of the tumour and some of the skin around should be inoculated, so as to cover it with a confluent vesicle, which excites great fever, and the opportunity of doing so must be rare. A verj^ small nrevus may also be destroyed by punc- turing it, and inserting into the puncture a glass pen dipped in nitric acid; this is also a good method of removing little red spots on the face, formed by a distended vessel with radiating branches; but immediately after applying the acid, the part should be sponged with a solution of carbonate of soda, to prevent any scar on the skin. Mr. Fcrgusson sometimes passes a needle under a small najvus, and twists a thread over it, so as to cause considerable pressure, allow- ing it to remain for forty-eight hours or longer, after the manner used for the relief of varicose veins.