369 DISEASES OP THE CORNEA. surface, of the frothy mucus or sud which the movements of the lid furnish. “ The opacity thus produced is often very opake, and unless you were aware of its cause, might seem more serious than it really is. A lens, or the point of a needle, will inform you of its real nature. “ There is another form of opacity, which I believe to have its seat in the anterior elastic lamina, although it is vain to endeavour to prove it, e.xcept by a section of the parts. It has a silvery lustre, and a very fine texture of interweaving striae, and it creeps veiy gradually from near the border, over the surface of the cornea, towards the centre. The epithelial surface retains its smoothness and lustre, and the opacity does not appear to have much depth. Other varieties of opaciy, very chronic in their course, and evidently not inflammatory, are liable to form, as I believe, in the same tissue. They may be of a brown tint, with an indefinite margm, and may affect both corneae at the same time.” Mr. Bowman relates two cases, one treated by himself, the other by Mr. DixonJ^in which superficial opacity, caused by a thin film of earthy matter, was successfully removed by operation.* V. Onyx signifies a suppuration between the layers of the cornea, and is an occasional result of acute ophthalmia, especially of the ca- tarrho-rheumatic. It derives its name from its resemblance in shape to the white spot at the root of the finger-nail. It mostly disappears with proper antiphlogistic treatment. If it extend very fast, it may be necessary to puncture the external layers of the cornea, to relieve the great pain, but the sight will be lost. VI. Ulcers of the cornea may be results of the jMycteimlec of scrofulous ophthalmia, or they may arise from mechanical injury, or from any form of conjunctival inflammation. They may likewise commence as mere abrasions, or as little nebulous spots, independently of any other affection. When a consequence of the scrofulous phlyc- tenula, they are generally deep, and tend to perforate the cornea, and leave an opake cicatrix ; when arising from other causes, thej' are often superficial, and heal with a semitransparent cicatrix, which gradually becomes clear. These ulcers may, as Mr. T3'rrell observes, exist in three states. “ First, that which we may term healthy, when the surface and cir- I cumference exhibit a degree of haziness or opacity of a whitish or gray i aspect, which is owing to the effusion of adhesive matter on the sur- 1 face, and in the surrounding texture, which is essential to the healing • Op. cit. pp. 37,117. t This figure exhibits the healing stage of an ulcer of tlic cornea. It is ccopied by Mr. W. llagg from a drawing for wliich tlie autlior lias to tliank Mr. 1 Partridge. * B B