•293 DISLOCATION OP THE ANKLE. moved by the finger. The pad of a tourniquet was employed to keep it in its place. X. Dislocation op the Ankle is generally caused by jumps from great heights or from carriages in motion, and may occur in four directions. 1. Dislocation of the tibia inwards is the most common. It is attended with fracture of the lower third of the fibula, and may be easily known by the sole of the foot turning outwards; its inner edge turning downwards ; and great projection of the internal mal- leolus. '2. Dislocation of the tibia and fibula outwards is attended with fracture of the internal malleolus, and may be known b}^ the sole of the foot turning inwards. 3. In tlie dislocation fonvards, the foot appears shortened, and the heel lengthened, and the toes pointed downwards. Tlierc is also a partial dislocation forwards, in which the tibia is only half displaced from its articulation with the astraga- lus, the fibula being also broken ; the foot appears shortened, and immovable, and tlie heel cannot be brought to the ground. 4. A dislocation backwards has been described; but it must be e.vcessively rare, as Sir A. Cooper never saw it. There is a case of it described by iSIr. Colles, which, however, was probably one of transverse frac- ture of the tibia and fibula just above the joint, with displacement backwards. Tlie fracture of the fibula about three inches above the outer malleolus, which accompanies the dislocation inwards, is com- monly called Pott’s fracture. Treatment.—The patient must be laid on the affected side, and the knee must be bent (to relax the gastrocnemius), and be firmly held by an assistant. The surgeon must then grasp the instep with one hand, and the heel with the other, and make e.xtcnsion (aided by pressure on the head of the tibia), till he has restored the natural shape and mobility of the parts. Then the limb must be put up with a splint on each side, in the same manner as a fracture of the lower part of the leg, taking care to keep the great toe in its proper line with the patella. Co.iiPOUND Dislocation of the ankle joint is by far the most frequent example of that kind of injury. If the wound in the in- teguments does not heal by the first intention, the joint inflames ; sup- puration occurs in about five days; much of the cartilage is destroyed by ulceration ; at last the wound is filled with granulations, and the patient recovers a tolerably good use of the foot in from two to twelve months. The first thing to be done is, to wash away all dirt with warm water; to remove any shattered pieces of bone gently with the fingers,and then to reduce the bone to its place; slightly enlarging the wound in the skin if necessary, in order to effect this without violence. If it is very difficult to return the end of the tibia, or if it is fractured obliquely, or much shattered, it is better to saw it off; as the patient will have quite as good use of the limb afterwards. Then the exter- nal wound should be closed with a bit of lint dipped in the ]iatient’s blood, and the leg be secured with a tailed bandage and splints, and be wetted with an evaporating lotion. Care must be taken not to let