URINARY ABSCESS. 509’ the blade, for the director, pushes the point into the groove behind the stricture, and runs the knife forward so as to divide the whole of the thickened texture at the contracted part of the canal. A full-sized catheter should be retained for twenty-four hours after- wards.* In whatever manner a stricture has been cured, the bougie should still be used at intervals, to prevent a fresh contraction. Contraction of the Orifice of the urethra may be a congenital .affection, or niaj^ be caused by the cicatrization of ulcers. It must be counteracted by the daily passage of a short bougie, otherwise it may produce all the evil conseipiences of stricture further back. If the contraction is verj' great, and causes retention of urine, one of Anel’s probes, a common probe, and a director may be introduced in succes- sion, and then when the bladder is emptied, the orifice must be dilated by a slight incision downwards; any subsequent contraction being obviated by the bougie. SECTION III. OF URINARY ABSCESS, EXTRAVASATION OF URINE, AND FISTULA IN I'EllI.NAiO. I. Urinary Abscess is a frequent consequence of stricture. Either an abscess forms in the cellular tissue close to the urethra, and after a time opens into that canal; or, perhaps, one or two drops of urine escape into the cellular tissue, in consequence of a slight ulcera- tion of the urethra behind the stricture; and this small quantity of urine produces inflaraination, so that an abscess forms, filled with dark-coloured putrid pus.-|- Symptoms.—A patient with old stricture complains of rather more difficulty of micturition than usual; he is seized with shivering, the skin becomes hot, the tongue brown, .and the pulse faltering; and on examination, a deep, hard, and painful, but not prominent, swell- ing will be detected in the perinamra. Perhaps the scrotum is cedematous. Treatment.—The abscess should be opened immediately, and the patient will soon be brought from the gates of de.ath to compar.ative health. It will also be expedient to cut through the stricture as directed in the last section, and pass a catheter into the bladder. II. Rupture of the Urethra and Extravasation of Urine. —This is another consequence of old stricture, and it generally hap- pens in the following way: The patient, who has long been labouring under difficulty of micturition, has a fit of spasmodic retention more obstinate than usual. lie is repeatedly getting out of bod, and * On Stricture of the Urethra and Fistula in I’erimeo, by James Syme F.R.S.E., Fdin. 1849. + In tlie same manner, a little urine may escape from a minute aperture in the bladder, and give rise to abscess behind the pubes, or between the bladder and rectum; which may point above the pubes ; or in tlie groins, or may buri-ow amongst the muscles of the thigh.