384 CATARACT. Care must be taken not to dislocate the lens in this first operation. The cataract will be more or less dissolved by the aqueous humour, and be absorbed. After the lapse of a few weeks, the operation may be repeated, the capsule may be lacerated more extensively, and the lens be cut up into fragments, which, if perfectly soft, may be pushed through the pupil into the anterior chamber, where absorption is more brisk. This operation may be repeated again and again if necessary. But if a hard fragment be pushed into the anterior chamber, it may probably excite great inflammation, and require to be removed by operation ; so that the surgeon had better avoid attempting to do too much at once. 2. Or the needle may be introduced through the cornea, an oper- ation styled Iceraionyxis. It is safer than the first mentioned, inas- much as a wound of the cornea alone is less serious than one implicating vitreous humour, sclerotic, conjunctiva, and perhaps retina or ciliary processes. The pupil must be well dilated. Then the needle is passed through the cornea about an eighth of an inch from its margin, and is made to lacerate the capsule to the extent of the pupil. It should be of such a shape as to prevent the escape of the aqueous humour. 3. There is a third modification of this operation, which Mr. Tj'rrell tenns the operation by drilliny. It is particularly adapted for cases of capsular or capsulo-lenticular cataract with adhesion of the pupil, caused by iritis. It is performed by introducing a fine straight needle through the cornea near its margin, and passing it through the pupil to the lens. It is then to be made to enter the substance of the lens to the depth of about one-sixteenth of an inch, and to be freely rotated. This operation may be repeated at intervals of three, four, or five weeks ; .and if the puncture be made in a fresh place at each operation, that portion of the capsule which is behind the pupil will become loosened and detached, and the lens absorbed. This operation may also be occasionally resorted to in order to diminish the size of the lens, previously to depression or extoction. Operations on Infants.—Congenital cataracts should be ope- rated on early—within four months if possible, lest the eye, which when born blind habitually oscillates from side to side, may never acquire the power of being directed to one particular object. The pupil being well dilated, the child should be placed on a table—the he.ad on a pillow, and r.athcr hanging over it—one assistant holding the legs and trunk, a second the arms and chest, a third fixing the head between his two hands, and a fourth, depressing the Imucr eye- lid with one Land, and ste.adjnng the chin with the other. The ope- rator then, seated behind the patient, performs the operation for absorption as before described ; at the same time elevates the upper lid, and fixes the globe with an elevator. Care must be taken not to dislocate the lens, and not to wound the posterior capsule or vitreous humour. This operation on children, and in fact on persons under twenty, generally excites so little inflammation, that both eyes may