212 CHAPTER IV. OF THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE LYMPHATICS. I. Acute Inflammation of lymphatic glands has already been exemplified when speaking of bubo. The inflamed gland enlarges rapidly, and forms a hard, tense swelling, with great pain and fever. If it suppurate, the matter is formed in the cellular tissue around it, or between it and the skin, and the case proceeds as an acute abscess. This affection may be caused, (1.) By constitutional disorder, like acute abscesses. (2.) By local violence, such as blows or kicks. (3.) By the irritation or absorption of acrid matter from ulcers, venereal or otherwise. (4.) By simple injuries, a clean prick, for instance, in persons whose health is deranged. (5.) By punctures inoculated with some irritant fluid, perhaps from a putrid body. When the disease arises from ulcers or punctures, the inflamma- tion generally' begins in the lymphatic vessels leading to the glands, which appear as red lines under the skin, and feel hard, cordy', and tender. Inflammation of the lymphatics, when a consequence of dissection wounds, may be distinguished from the diffuse cellular inflammation arising from the same cause, (Part iii. chap, ix.) by the simple inflam- matory character of the constitutional symptoms. It begins with swelling and festering of the original wound, from which red lines extend up the arm. In trivial cases, these may stop at, or may not even reach, the elbow; and there may be very little or no febrile dis- turbance. But, in severe cases, the glands in the axilla swell and be- come exquisitely' painful;—there is great fever; the pulse is rapid, full, and hard;—matter is fonned; and if it be confined by fasciae, and not evacuated by art, the nervous system may sink under the excruciating pain, and the patient may die. If the matter is discharged, he re- covers his health without much difficulty'. A comparison of these sy'mptoms with those of the other affection will readily show their in- trinsic difference,—although, as was before said, it is very possible that both may be combined. Treatment.—Acute inflammation of the lyunphatics arising from local injury, from constitutional causes, or from the irritation of ordi- nary ulcers, must be treated by leeches, fomentations, purgatives, and the other local and general antiphlogistic measures, that require no comment. If it be produced by slight injuries, whether in dissection or otherwise, the original wound should be assiduously' fomented, and the bowels should be cleared. If the axillary' glands are affected, and the pulse is full and hard, the swelled parts should bo covered with leeches and fomentations. Incisions should bo made early' wherever matter is suspected to exist, or is likely to be formed—and when fever abates, the patient’s health should be recruited by tonics and