DISLOCATION OR LUXATION GENERALLY. 278 SECTION IX.—OF DISLOCATION OR LUXATION GENF.RALLY. S^m2^toms.—The symptoms of dislocation are two: — 1. Defor- mity ; there being an alteration in the form of the joint; an unnatural prominence at one part and a depression at another, together with lengthening or shortening of the limb. 2. Loss of the proper mo- tions of the joint. Causes.—Dislocation may be caused by external violence, or by muscular action. And the circumstances that enable muscular action to produce it are,—a peculiar position (as when the jaw is very much depressed) ; paralysis of an antagonist set of muscles; elongation of ligaments ; or fracture or ulceration of some process of bone. Thus ulceration of the acetabulum permits the head of the femur to be dis- located upwards, and fracture of the coronoid process permits the ulna to be dislocated backwards. Morbid Anatomy.—Dislocation is almost of necessity attended with some rupture of ligaments, which, however, readily unite and heal. If the dislocation be left unreduced, the lymph thrown out around the head of the bone in its new situation becomes converted into new liga- ments, and into a new socket, which is lined with a smooth ivory sub- stance, and not with cartilage ; and a very useful degree of motion is often acquired. Meanwhile the old socket graduall}' becomes filled up. Diagnosis.—Dislocation may be distinguished from fracture, 1. bj’ th.0 absemce of crepitus. For although a slight crackling is often per- ceptible, owing to an effusion of serum into the cellular tissue, it can hardly be' mistaken for the gratuig of fracture. 2. By the circum- stance, that the surgeon can move a fractured bone more freely than is natural, and a dislocated one less so. 3. By measurement of the bone supposed to be broken, which, if broken, will be most probably shortened. 4. If a fractured bone be drawn into its proper shape, the distortion wall return so soon as the extension is discontinued: if a dislocated bone be drawn into its proper place, it will remain there. Treatment.—The reduction of dislocations ma}' be effected by fixing the part from which the bone has been dislodged, and extending the dislocated bone in such a manner that the muscles may draw it into its socket.* The extension should be made in such a position as to relax as many of the opposing muscles as possible. After reduction, leeches, fomentations, and purging, must be used if required, to pre- vent inflammation, and the joint should be kept at rest till any lacera- tion of its ligaments may have healed, otherwise the dislocation may be perpetually recurring. Dislocations should always be reduced as quickly as possible, before the patient has recovered from the shock of the injury, and before the muscles have had time to contract and fix the bone in its new situa- * Mr. 'Vincent advises, especially in dislocations of long standing, that the extension be made not from a fixed point, but from various points in a circle of some magnitude.