243 FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. to swinu the arm gently backwards and forwards, and gradually to bring it into use-* Fracture of the lower extremiti/ of the Humerus may present many varieties. 1. There may be an oblique fracture above the con- dyles ;—which usually happens to children. The radius and ulna, with the lower fragment, are drawn upwards and backwards, as in dislocation :—but the natural appearance of the parts is restored by extension. 2. Either condyle may be broken off; and the fracture ma}’ or inaj' not extend into the joint. 3. There may be one fracture betu'cen the two condyles, and another separating them both from the shaft. All these injuries may be distinguished from dislocation of the elbow by noticing that the motions of the joint are free, and are at- tended with crepitus above the elbow ; and that the length of the fore-ann, measured between the condyles of the humerus and the lower extremities of the radius and ulna, is the same as on the sound side. The patient should be warned that it is very difficult to avoid all deformity and loss of motion. Treatment.—The fore and upper arm should be bandaged, and a piece of pasteboard, gummed sheeting, or leather softened in water, should be cut to a right angle, like the letter L, so as to fit the elbow when bent, and should be applied on the inner and outer sides, and be retained by another bandage. Resides this, an unyular sjilint may be employed. It is composed of two pieces joined at a right angle; one of wliich is placed behind the upper arm, and the other below the forearm. Rut if the injur3' was attended with much violence, the patient must he confined to his bed for some da^’s with the arm on a pillow, and leeches and lotions be employed to reduce the inflamma- tion and swelling. VI. Fractures of the Forear.m.—Fracture of the olecranon maj' be caused by direct force, or by violent action of the triceps muscle. S’pniiloms.—The patient easilj^ bends his limb, but has great pain and iiudnlitj- in straightening it. A hollow is felt at the back of the joint, because the broken jiart is drawn from half an inch to two inches up the arm; but sometimes, when the ligaments are not torn through, this displacement may be very trifling, or altogether absent. Treatment.— The limb should be placed in a straight position, and leeches and eva]iorating lotions be used till swelling and tenderness subside. Then the forearm having been bandaged, the olecranon should be drawn down as much as possible, and the roller, continued from the forearm, should be passed round above it, and then back again about the elbow in a figure of 8 form. Then the whole upper ann should be rolled, in order to prevent contraction of the triceps; * Mr. Vincout. op. cit. p. 04, strongly objects to the emplo}anent of passive motion, believing that time ami the natural action of tho imisclcs will ilo with- out any risk all that can be dune for tho restoration of the motions; whilst passive- motion may continue or set up inllanmiation.