410 CHAPTER XIV. OF THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE FACE AND NOSE. SECTION I.—AFFECTIONS OP THE OUTER PARTS OF THE FACE, NOSE, AND LIPS. I. Salivary Fistula is said to exist when the stcnonian duct has been perforated by a wound or ulcer, so that the saliva dribbles out on the cheek. Treatment.—In the first place, a good passage must be established from the duct into the mouth. This may be done by puncturing the mouth through the fistula in two places, passing a small skein of silk, or, still better, a piece of very flexible wire, through the apertures, and securing the two ends in the mouth by a knot. After a few days the edges of the fistula must be pared, and be brought into contact by sutures, in order that they maj’’ unite by adhesion. When there has been a loss of substance, it may be necessary to apply the actual cautery to the margin of the aperture, in order that the fungous granulations succeeding the bum may supply the deficiency ; or to cover it with a flap of skin raised from the adjoining parts. II. Hypertrophy.—The nose sometimes becomes prodigiously en- larged through an hypertrophy of the cellular tissue and skin, especially in persons who have been addicted to the pleasures of the table. Such tumours are very inconvenient and unsightly, but not malignant. They grow slowly—are indolent and painless—the sebaceous follicles are much enlarged, and secrete profusely, and the skin is more or less mottled with veins. Treatment.—If the 'patient desires it, the tumour may be removed with the knife ; but he must observe rigid abstemiousness, and have his bowels well cleared for a fortnight previously'. An incision may be made in the median line nearly down to the cartilage. Then an assistant distends the nostrils with his fore-finger, whilst the surgeon seizes the morbid growth, and shaves it clean off, close to the carti- lage. After the operation, there will be considerable hmmorrhage from numerous vessels. Some of these may be tied, some may be pinched with a forceps, some may be secured with a very fine cambric needle and thread; and any general oozing may be restrained by the applica- tion of a cloth dipped in cold water, or, if it be obstinate, by plugging the nostrils, and making pressure with strips of plaster. III. Rhino-plastic, or Taliacotian Oper.\tions.—When a portion or the whole of the nose has been destroyed by disease or accident, the deficiency may be restored by a transplantation of skin from an adjoining part, the operation being varied according to the e.xtent of the deformity. 1. When the whole or greater part of the nose a tri-