457 CHAPTER XVII. OF THE SURGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. I. Paracentesis Abdominis is an operation performed in ascites and ovarian drojisy, when the abdomen has become so distended that the breathing and the circulation of the lower extremities are seriously impeded. Diagnosis.—Ascites is known by the abdomen being equably en- larged and fluctuating, not feeling harder at one part than at another, whilst in ovarian dropsy, the swelling fluctuates less distinctljs and is evidently composed of distinct cysts, some of which feel more distended than others. A second means of distinguishing the two affections is afforded by percussion. In ascites, the bowels, as they contain air, float up through the serum ; and, in whatever position the patient may be placed, they tend to occupy the uppermost part, and the serum the lowest ; and a clear sound may be elicited by percussion over the bowels, but a dull sound over the serum. Thus, if the patient be placed on his back, a clear sound will be produced over the anterior surface of the abdominal parietes, but a dull sound towards the sides and back. In ovarian dropsy, on the contrary, the abdomen is dis- tended by a tumour which occupies its front part, the bowels being behind and on either side of it. Consequently, when the patient lies on her back, percussion of the anterior surface produces a dull sound ; whilst a clear sound may be produced towards the back part and sides. In doubtful cases a puncture may be made with a small trocar, to examine the fluid that issues ; which, in ascites is a clear serum, but in ovarian dropsy displays under the miscroscope numerous small grtmules and cells.* Ojicration.—The patient must be seated in a chair. Abroad towel must then be passed romid the lower part of the abdomen, and its ends be crossed behind and entrusted to two assistants, who are to be instructed to draw it tight and support the belly as the fluid escapes ; otherwise, the removal of the compression to which the ab- dominal veins have been habituated would cause the blood to gravitate into them from the heart, and induce syncope, or perhaps they might burst, and occasion a fatal hamiorrhage. A piece of flannel broad enough to cover the whole abdomen, and having a notch cut out of it above and below (and the edges sewn together afterwards), is a good substitude for the towel. The surgeon then holding a trocar in a canula in his right hand, with the end of his forefinger about two inches from the point of the instrument, plunges it througli the linea allia, two inches below the umbilicus, then steadying the canula witli his left hand, he pulls out the trocar with his right ; the fluid, • Bennett, EiUn. Med. and Surg. Journal, April, 1S4C.