DISEASES OF TDE URINARY ORGANS. 508 readily the caustic should he used for the shortest time on the first trial.” Slight heat, and slight muco-purulent discharge, perhaps tinged with blood, are the effects which the patient is to expect ; but they soon pass off, and it is to be remembered that it is an alterative and absorbefacient effect, not a mechanical destruction, which is to be wrought on the stricture. The caustic bougie may be used once in from three to five days, but never till the irritation caused by a pre- vious employment of it, has quite subsided.* 4. Ptincturaiion, or division of the stricture by means of the lanccted stilellcs f invented by Mr. Stafford, or of Mr. Fergusson’s ure- throtome,X niay be resorted to in some cases of old stricture, at the anterior part of the urethra. 5. The operation of Opening the Urethra from the Peri- N.EUM is absolutel}' requisite in all cases of rupture of the urethra with extravasation of urine, and is expedient in cases of very old stricture with extensive urinary fistula;, when the health is giving way, and other means fail of affording relief. It is performed thus :— the patient is placed in the lithotomy position; a grooved staff is passed down to the stricture, and the left forefinger, introduced into the rectum, is to feel for the urethra, and serve as a guide to the incisions. Then a straight bistoury is to be plunged in just above the anus to the depth of an inch, and made to cut its waj’ out upwards in the middle line of the perinasum. The end of the sound should next be felt for and cut open, and the knife is then to be carried backwards through the stricture into the urethra beyond it, which is always more or less dilated and prominent, especially if the patient is told to strain and try to pass urine. The stricture should be thoroughly divided, and all sinuses laid open. A gum catheter should then be passed into the bladder, and be retained there, so that the wound may heal over it, and form a new passage. It should, however, be changed once in three or four dax's. Professor Syme has recommended a new operation, not merely for cases in which incision is commonly considered necessary, but for others in which, spite of the common treatment by dilatation, the stricture contracts again perpetually, and is wearing out the patient's health by pain, rigors, and other signs of irritation. The patient having been put under the influence of chloroform, and held in the lithotomy position at the edge of a bed, “ a grooved director, slightly curved, and small enough to pass readily through the stricture, is in- troduced and confided to one of the assistants. The surgeon, sitting or kneeling on one knee, now makes an incision in the middle line of the perinaeum or penis, wherever the stricture is seated.” It should be about an inch and a half long, and extend through the skin and textures external to the urethra. The operator then taking the handle of the director in his left, and the knife, which should be a small straight bistoury, in his right hand, feels, with his forefinger guarding • Vide Rol)crt Wade, on Stricture of the Urethra, 2nd ed., Lond. 1849. t Stailord on Stricture, Lond. 1829. t Lancet, 1850 ,vol. ii. p. 304.