320 ACUTE PHLEBITIS. 2ndlJ^ Ijocal circumstances disturbing the coaguhim in a wounded vein, or breaking up the priinar}' adliesion ; such as exercise of an arm after venesection ; imprudent movements soon after parturition ; local circumstances interfering with the closure of veins, such as the patu- lous condition of the veins of bone, of the liver, and of the sinuses in the dura-mater. A very large proportion of cases of phlebitis are found to follow injuries and operations on the bones. 3rdly. We must mention the operation of that peculiar poison which, whether generated by putrid miasmata, and floating in the air, or by putre- iying coagula in the womb ; or by accumulation of noisome fmces in the colon ; or whether communicated by direct infection, or bj' inocu- lation, is capable of generating anj^ one of that closely-allied group of erysipelatous diseases, of which, that imder consideration is one of the most formidable.* Treatment.—In a disease so difficult to remedy, a correct knowledge of its causes may at least be of service in pointing to rational means of prevention. Thus, patients who have undergone a severe injury or operation, and women who have been recently delivered, should not be further debilitated bj' too low a diet; and if they have lost much blood, its place should be supplied by good beef-tea in prefer- ence to gruel and other slops. The advantage of moderate support by bandages, and of perfect quiescence of body and mind (which may be secured by small repeated doses of opium) must also be obvious. When the actual symptoms have come on, the two leading indica- tions are 1st. to assist the liver in its task of purifying the blood ; 2ndly. to keep up the strength. For the first purpose, it is well to give one ten-grain dose of calomel, and to follow it by purgatives; saline purgatives F. 33, 34, 35, 42, if the bowels are torpid—milder ones, as rhubarb and castor-oil, if they are inclined to diarrhoea ; en- deavouring to bring away black or yellow fetid stools, not mere water or slime. An emetic may sometimes be of service. For the second purpose, good beef-tea and port wine are of most value ; but it will be very desirable to consult the patient’s taste. Some patients crave for bottled beer ; others for soda-water, with or without brandy; or milk, or lemonade, or nitro-rauriatic jicid, F. 22, or simple effervescing draughts ; and in almost all cases the dictates of nature may be safely yielded to. Pain and restlessness maj' be allayed by regular doses of opium, administered in sufficient quantity to produce sleep at night, and to tranquillize the nerves. In other respects, the practitioner must treat symptoms ; local pain and tenderness by a few leeches and fomentations ; congestion in the chest by leeches and blisters, or bran or mustard poultices ; abscesses must be opened at once ; di.ar- rhoea, if exhausting, be moderated by chalk or bismuth mixture ; and * See a very interesting paper by Mr. Henry Lee. in wliich lie gives tlie details of twenty-three fatal cases of secondarj’ inflammation, which occurred in St. George’s Hospital in 1845. Med. Gaz. vol. xxxviii.; and a very able paper on Phlebitis, with experiments and coiiious records of cases, by the same author, in London Jounial of hledicine, March and July, 1850.