SQUINI'ING. 395 restore the faculty of reading at the distance of from sixteen to twenty inches. The sight should be spared by candle-light as much as pos- ^le. The glasses should cause minute objects near the ej'e to appear | bright and distinct, but not larger than natural. If they do, they are j too convex.* SECTION XVI.—OF SQUINTING. Squinting, or Strabisjius, may be defined to be a want of paral- lelism in the position and motion of the eyes. The essential cause of the affection appears, in most instances, to be some weakness of sight, or some want of adjustment in the visual axis of one eye in consequence of which it is involuntarily turned aside,in order to avoid the double or distorted vision that would re- sult from looking at objects with two e}’es of different powers. The immediate mechanism by which the squint is produced, is most pro- bably a relaxed or inactive state of the external rectus muscle, so that its antagonist muscle, the internal rectus, preponderates in force, and draws the eye inwards.+ Sometimes, although more rarely, it may be supposed that the afi'ection commences by an original spasm of the internal rectus. The ordinary form of squint is the convergent, or that in which the eye is turned inwards; the divenjeni, or that in which the eye is turned outwards, is more rare. It occasionally happens that both eyes squint; but it must be remarked that they do not both squint at the same time, but alternately; occasionally, however, both ejms con- verge at the same time. When one eye is distorted and ^ed, the affection is called luscitas. Causes.—1. Squinting maj’' be caused bj’’ congenital malformation. 2. It may be induced by bad habits; such as the imitation of parents, nurses, or schoolfellows, if they happen to squint; or by constantly looking at spots and pimples on the nose; or it may follow affections (such as hordeolum) which render motion of the eye pain- ful, and during which the patient turns the eye inwards and keeps it motionless. 3. It ma}' be caused by using one eye constantlj^ to the neglect of the other. It may be observed that all shortsighted per- sons have more or less tendency to squint, for the following reason. They never use both eyes whilst they are reading or examining small objects near the eye; but sometimes use the right eye, and sometimes * An elderly gentleman, who had been some time presbyopic, met with a violent fall and contusion of the eyes ; which doubtless produced an increased secretion of aqueous humour, and restored his power of seeing at the ordinary focal distance. Presbyopia occurring in young persons generally arises from intestinal irritation, and may be a precursor of amaurosis. t This is shown by the results of the operation of dividing the internal rectus, after which the eye is merely drawn by the external rectus into its natural position; whereas, when (in various accidents) one of the recti of a sound eye has been severed, its antagonist has drawn it completely over to its own side. Vide Sir C. Bell, Practical Essays, 1841.