PEIOIANEST STRICTURE. 505 is smaller than usual, and forked, or scattered, or twisted, and that he requires a longer time and greater effort th.an usual to pass it. Itching of the end of the penis and gleety discharge are not unfrequent con- comitants if the stricture is near the anterior e.Ytremity of the urethra. If the disease proceeds to its second stayc, the bladder becomes irritable, obliging tlie patient to rise in the night to void his urine. He is liable to attacks of spasms with complete retention, as was described in the preceding section. In one of these, the urethra may ulcerate or burst, giving rise to urinary abscess, or to e.xtravasation of urine, as will be described in the ne.\t section. Rigors occurring in paroxysms like ague fits are not uncommon. Finally, if the complaint is per- mitted to continue, the health suffers from the constiint irritation and want of sleep; the bladder and kidneys become diseased ; the com- plexion becomes wan ; the appetite fails ; the patient complains of chills and flushes, of aching and weak- ness in the back, and of great lan- guor and depression of spirits; and the urine is constantly loaded with fetid mucus. After death, the ure- thra behind the stricture is found greatly dilated ; the prostate, with its ducts dilated, and in a state of suppuration, or perhaps containing small circumscribed abscesses; the bladder, sometimes dilated,but more frequently contracted and having its muscular coat enormouslj' thick- ened ; sometimes sacculated from a protrusion of its mucous coat be- tween the fibres of the muscular; the ureters dilated, and converted into subsidiary receptacles for the urine, and the kidneys either great- ly dilated or disorganized. An en- graving illustrative of this will be found in the seventh Section of the present chapter. I reutment. In the first place, any disorder of the general health, or of the digestive organs, and any derangement of the urine, must be corrected by proper remedies. ( Vide Gleet, Chronic Inflammation of the Bladder, and Lrinary Deposits.) The patient also must avoid violent exercise, especially on horseback. But the stricture can oidy be * This drawing, from a preparation in the King’.s College Mu.seum, shows tne uietliia laid open, and a stricture in the membranous portion just in front of the verumontanum.