157 IN THE DOG. I earth, and excrement in the stomach ; or perhaps in the fauces where it may have lodged from defect in the power of deglutition.* Causes.—The cause of this malady in dogs is most frequently a bite from another animal already diseased; yet it must occasionally arise spontaneously. And the most probable sources of its origin are close conlinement, rank unwholesome food, want of the couch i/rass, the natural medicine of the dog, and deprivation of sexual intercourse. Besides the dog, it is probable that hydrophobia arises spontane- ously in the wolf, jackall, badger, and perhaps the cat. But it may be communicated to many other inammiferous animals, and there is no doubt but that every animal capable of taking the disease, can also propagate it. This is equally tnie with regard to luiman beings as to animals. MM. Magendie and Breschet inoculated two healthy dogs on the 9th of .June, 1913, with the saliva of a man who was labouring under the disease, and who died of it the same daj' at the Ilotel-Dieu. One of the dogs ran away; but the other was affected with decided rabies on the 27th of July following, and died of it;—and some other dogs, which it was made to bite, died also. M'’ell-authonticated cases are recorded, in which the disease was communicated to man by pigs and horses ;—and there is no doubt but that it would be so much more frequently, if it were the instinct of herbivorous animals to show their rage by biting. Breschet, in the course of numerous experiments on the subject, repeatedl}' infected dogs with the saliva of rabid horses and asses. One curious fact demonstrated by these experi- ments is, that when rabbits, or other rodentia, and birds, are inoculated with the saliva of rabid animals, the\- very soon die, but without ex- hibiting any of the ordinary symptoms of hydrophobia.t In the hor.fc the disease commences with great distress and terror, and profuse sweating ; he soon becomes frantic and outrageous, stamp- ing, snorting, and kicking.J In the sheep, the sj'inptoms are similar. An instance is recorded in which eight sheep were bitten, and became rabid ; they were e.xceedingly furious, running and butting at every person and thing, but did not bite. They drank freely.§ There are several points connected with the propagation of hydro- phobia, which are still involved in great uncertainty. It is not known whether the saliva is the poisonous agent, or whether some poisonous matter may be secreted by the mouth, fauces, or lungs, and mixed with it. Ihis, however, is not a point of much consequence ; but again, it is uncertain whether the whole solids and fluids of the ani- mal are not poisonous also. In fact, there is some reason for believ- ing that the disease may be communicated by the mother’s milk.ll • Vide The Doy by W. Youatt, Loud. 18 J5. t Bre.schet sur (luelques Heclierches experimentalcs sur la Haae. L'Exptri- ence, Oct. 8tli, 1840. t Blaino'.s Outlines of the VctcrinaiT Art. 2nd edit. Lend. 1810. I) Lancet, 1820—30, vol. ii. )>. 511. II I wo ewes were bitten by a mad dog, and died liydroi)bobic. One bad two lambs, the other one; all three of which wore seized with the disease a week