251 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. and debility of the patients; the atrophy of the part injured; the imperfect nourishment of the upper fragment, and the general indis- position of bones covered with synovial membrane to throw out callus. Diagnosis.—The surgeon should be aware that a fall on the hip is apt to produce interstitial absorption and shortening of the neck of the femur, with disappearance of the cartilage, eburnation of the articular surfaces, and irregular deposit of bone around the cervix (the same series of changes which the part undergoes in chronic rheumatic arthritis) with shortening of the limb, and wasting of the muscles ; with most of the conditions, in fact, that follow a fracture. Thus the patient on recovering from the immediate effects of the injury, finding the limb lame and shortened, may accuse the surgeon of having over- looked a dislocation or fracture. Of course the surgeon must defend himself by proving the absence of the symptoms of these injuries immediately after the accident, and by reference to authenticated cases in which the same ill consequences have followed bruises with- out fracture.* Trcaiment—It is of no use to sacrifice the patient’s little remnant of health and strength, and run the risk of producing sloughing of the nates by long confinement to bed, in the hope of procuring union by bone. But he should be kept in bed for a fortnight, till pain and tenderness abate ; with one pillow under the whole length of the limb, and another rolled up and placed under the knee. Then he may get up and sit in a high chair, and shortly begin to crawl about with crutches ; and in time he will regain a tolerable use of the limb, I especially if not very corpulent. The sole of the shoe must be made 1 thick enough to counteract the shortness of the limb. It must be : added that this injury I often proves fatal dur- i ing thefirst threeweeks, 64.,.' 1 from the shock to the ( constitution, or from the I bruises inflicted on the 1 limb. ' (2.) Fracture external ito the capsular ligament I is caused by direct vio- 1 lence, such as falls or I blows on the hip; by \which the neck of the f femur is broken off, and ddriven into the cancel- lous structure of the .great trochanter ; and •at the same time one * Smith, op. cit.; Canton, on Interstitial absorption of the Neck of tlio Keinur roin 13rui.se, 4ic. Med. Gaz., Aug. 11, 1S48.