LATERAL CURVATURE. 341 tion under the head of treatment such as are most common in children, but we may add, that there are some circumstances which almost in- fallibly cause distortion even in the healthiest adult ; such as one leg being shorter than the other, or walking with a wooden leg. Why one-sided postures should cause distortion must be evident, when it is considered that the intervertebral substance is compressible, to such an extent, that an adult man of middle stature loses about an inch of his height after having been in the erect posture during the day, and does not regain it till after some hours of rest. “ Since the united thickness of the intervertebral substance in an adult man is about 3‘875 inches,” we see that they lose nearly one-fourth by compres- sion, which they do not recover till after some hours of rest. But if the weight of the body falls unequally on the spine day after day, it must be evident that they will become compressed on one side more than on the other ; and that if their elasticitj’' be impaired, and the muscles and ligaments be weak, and the bones soft, as they are in young persons who have not a sufticiency of fresh air, wholesome food, and active exercise, this lateral distortion will become pemianent.* Treatment.—Attention must be paid to the following circumstances: —viz. position, exorcise, and rest. 1. In the first place, the patient must be watched, in order to find out from what particular attitude or habit the distortion takes its rise. Standing on the right leg is the most frequent, for in this posture the left side of the loins is thrown upwards, and the patient is obliged to raise the right shoulder to keep the bod)’ perpendicular. A habit of raising the right shoulder whilst writing, or drawing, or playing the harp, or riding on horseback, or of sleeping constantly on one side with too high a pillow,— the custom of lotting girls’ dresses be made low on the chest, so that the patient is perpetually inclined to hitch up the shoulder-strap on one side and let it fall off the other, are also occasional causes. And all these, and every other one-sided posUno, should be vigilantly prohibited.f 2. The patient should take free exercise in the open air, whether walking or riding, or indulging in any games or sports, such as the dumb-bells, the skipping-rope, drawing a light garden roller, hopping, or carrying weights in the hands. The club exercise, introduced by Mr. Angelo into the regular cavalry training, is extremely advan- tageous.+ It consists in a series of exercises for the arms, whilst a * See some judicious observations on tliis point by Mr. Bishop, in the Lancet for 1846, voi. i. p. 215. + Jackson, tbo pugilist, used to .s.ay tliat lie knew an infallililo plan for making any child crooked; viz.. Let it bolt its victuals and stand on one leg. (Vide .Mayo's I’hilosophy of Living.) Whilst on the subject oibellimj food, tlie author may liint to liis junior readers, that tliOre is generally some cause for tliis habit. Eitlier tlie appetite is morbidly ravenous, tlirough an iinlieallliy state of the secretions of the stomacli, or else tlie gums are tender, or tlie teeth carious, so tliat iiiastication gives pain. Tliese states may easily lie relieved, and tiicii the bad liabit may be attacked witli some cliance of success. t Vide [iroposed Kcgulations for tlie instruction &c. of tlie Cavalry. Bart 1. Published by Authority. Loud. 1832, page 11.