GLAtrCOMA. 385 be operated on at once ; but the bowels must be kept open, and leeches should be applied if there be pain. Capsular Cataract.—When congenital cataract is left to itself, the lens becomes absorbed, and the capsule remains tough and opake. And it sometimes happens that an opake capsule is left, or that it becomes opake after one of the operations for cataract. There are three plans of treatment. 1. A needle with cutting edges maybe introduced, as for depression ; and then may be made to cut crucially through the opake capsule, which then may shrink and leave the pupil clear. 2. The upper part of the capside, for four-fifths of its circumference, may be detached by the needle from the ciliary pro- cesses, and then be pushed down below the pupil. 3. If no other plan succeed in removing a detached piece of capsule, an opening may be made in the cornea, through which it may be extracted by means of a small hook or forceps. Mr. Middlemore has proposed a plan for removing such bodies through the sclerotic. There is great uncertainty of clearing the pupil of capsule by any other mode but extracting it, j’et so dangerous has that operation been deemed, from the escape of the vitreous humour, which is almost sure to occur, when previous operations have been done within the eye, that the extraction is seldom attempted. To meet this difficulty, Mr. Haynes Walton has introduced into practice a peculiar sort of forceps for the removal of the capsule. The instrument is no larger than a needle, so that the opening in the cornea need not be larger than necessaiy to allow of the exit of the strip of capsule to be removed, and all the objections to extraction are overcome. SECTION XI.—OF GLAUCOMA. Glaucoma signifies a state of impaired vision, accompanied with a greenish discoloration of the pupil. It was formerly supposed to be dependent on a turbidity of the vitreous humour ; dissection, however, has shown that this opinion is not correct ; but that the organization of all the central portions of the eye is impaired. The lens is found still transparent, or nearly so, but yellowish or reddish in colour; the vitreous humour yellowish, but nearly pellucid and quite fluid, owing to an atrophy of the hyaloid membrane ; the choroid mem- brane of a light brown colour, from a deficiency of the black pigment; and no remains of the central spot in the retina. The greenish discoloration which appears deep in the eye, is owing partly to the deficiency of black pigment, partly to the change of colour in the lens which reflects the light of a greenish colour, and absorbs the other rays. Symiiloms and Diagnosis.—The patient complains of gradually in- creasing dimness of sight, attended with more or less rheumatic pain * Middlemore, Med. Gaz., April 7, 1838 ; Hajaies Walton’s Lectures in the Medical Times, 1848—60.