77 FISTULOUS ULCER. stated periods ; and those attacks similar to what the patient has ex- perienced from gout in other parts.” 2. If an ulcer habituallj" occur whenever the constitution is disordered. 3. If the patient be very infirm and old; for under these circumstances the removal of an ha- bitual source of irritation, or the diversion of an habitual afflux of blood, maj' prove fatal;—more especially as very old ulcers have been known to heal spontaneously a short time before death. To these cases must be added that of ulcers on the legs of stout women, about the critical time of life, and displaying a tendency to discharge copiously as the periodic uterine flux diminishes. In any case we may observe, 1, that even if an habitual ulcer has not displayed any connexion with constitutional disorder, the secretions of the liver and kidney should be well kept up during the cure and for some time after it. 2. That if, spite of this, there be symptoms of congestion in the head, an issue or a seton in a convenient situation will answer the purpose of an ulcer in an inconvenient one ; and, there- fore, that with these safeguards ulcers on the legs may always be healed, if possible. Whately* mentions a case in which an ulcer was healed, but some time afterwards it reappeared of itself, and soon after that the patient died suddenly ; and, he observes, if his death had happened before the second breaking out of the ulcer, it would infallibly have been attri- buted to the healing of it. VI. The Fistulous Ulcer {Fistula or Sinus) is a variety of the indolent, and consists of a narrow channel lined by a pale pseudo- mucous membrane, which may or may not lead to a suppurating cavity. In old cases the pai’ietes of the tube are often dense and semi-cartilaginous. Causes.—Fistulm are produced when abscesses are not thoroughly healed from the bottom, when there has been a defect in the bandaging or in providing proper outlets for the discharge; or when there is some standing cause of irritation, as a ligature, or a piece of dead bone, which keeps up a discharge of pus. Treatment.—The first indication is to remove any source of irrita- tion—diseased bone, for example—that may happen to exist, and dis- eased bone should always be looked for. The second, to prevent the lodgment of matter ; for which purpose it may perhaps be necessary to make another opening. The third indication is to produce the ad- hesive inflammation. The means to be adopted are, stimulating injec- tions, tents smeared with irritating ointments ; the caustic bougie ; or a seton consisting of a few threads of silk, which may be passed through the fistula, and may be graduall}' diminished as the passage contracts. At the same time, the sides of the fistula should be kept constantly pressed together with compress and bandage. If these means fail, the fistula should be slit up with a bistoury ; and then a * tVliateley, T., Practical Observations on the Cure of Wounds and Ulcere 'lond. 1810, p. 144.