169 mSTORY AND PATUOLOGY. Another potent line of reasoning is founded on the circumstance, that many ancient authors state the leprosy of their times as being conta- gious ;—and that ulcers of the penis and heat of urine were contracted by men who lay with leprous women. But it is reasonable to infer, that what they called leprosy was in reality venereal disease. Because, in the_/irs< place (its Bateman says), “ there is little doubt that every species of cachectic disease accompanied with ulceration, gangrene, or anj'’ superficial derangement, was formerly termed leprous —and because, in the second place, there is no ground for believing that elephantiasis (the real tubercular leprosy) is contagious at all;—and because that disease is never communicated by contact in modern times, whether in carnal conversation or otherwise ;—a fact which has been ascertained by ample experience, especially at Madeira.t Mr. Beckett further mentions the occurrence of nodes on the bones at those early periods ; and shows that some of the so-called leprous diseases were cured by mercury, whilst real leprosy is not. Therefore they who believe in the antiquity of the venereal disease contend, that dis- charges from the urethra and syphilitic ulcers on the genitals were known in the earlier ages ; and that they were known to proceed from fornication; although the secondary symptoms which followed them, were for the most part npt known to be venereal, but were (like most other chronic skin-diseases) confounded with the leprosy. We may further remark that syphilis appears to have been known from time immemorial in China. (6) Arguments agauisl its antiquity.—On the other hand, the op- ponents of its antiquity contend, that although ulcers nr pustides on the genital organs and sundry discharges wore not unknown ; still that neither in Colsus, nor in any other ancient writer, do we find mention that such maladies were solely, or even frequently, the produce of sexual commerce ; or that they were peculiarly difficult to heal ; or that thej' were frequently, or indeed ever, followed by constitutional diseases. But the most potent argument of all is this namely, that all at once, whilst the French army, between the years 1494 and 1496, under Charles VIII., was besieging Naples, a new and terrible dis- ease sprang up, rebellious to every known method of treatment; at- tacking high and low, rich and poor; sparing neither o^enorsex; consisting of ulcers on the parts of generation in both sexes, which were speedily followed by affections of the throat and nose ; by cor- roding ulcers over the whole body ; by excruciating nocturnal pains, and frequently by death. ^V’horeas “ not one word that can bo con- strued into any similar affection, is to be met with distinctly stated in any writer before that period.” They, therefore, who are in favour of its antiquity, must hold one of these three opinions concerning that virulent disease of the fifteenth century:—viz. 1st, that it was a new kind of venereal disease;—or, • natomaii on Cutanoou.s 7)isoase.s, Stli cd. pp. 304 d soj. t Mr. Uacot and oUiors wlio oppose tlie antiquity of tlie venereal disease, Assert tiiat leprosy i.s UialoiiJAtdl^ co/Uagious.”