NEURALGIA. 328 cause ; or perhaps from some strong impression on the nerves ; or perhaps the patient may seek relief in religious fanaticism, or in a runaway marriage. Sometimes the patient labours under an obsti- nate contraction of some joint; perhaps the hip, or the finger ; which very likely goes olf quite suddenly, and transfers itself to another joint. A more disastrous thing can hardly happen to a patient than to have one of these hysterical affections treated as a genuine disease, by issues, leeches, and confinement to bed ; more especially, if the organ which is the alleged seat of disorder is the uterus, and if the speculum and various local applications are resorted to, to the infinite detriment of the patient’s mind and morals. But the surgeon must be equally careful not to make the opposite mistake, and not to treat an ulcerated joint as if it were mere hysteria; and the author would urge young surgeons to be most careful in their diagnosis, as he knows that mistakes of both these kinds have occurred even to very experienced practitioners. Treatvmit.—Any detectable disorder of the digestive or uterine systems should be removed. The patient should have fresh air, gene- rous living, and plenty of occupation for body and mind ; she should be encouraged to take exercise, notwithstanding pain and weakness; and to resume as far as possible the habits of a healthy person. Fric- tion of the surface ; the shower bath ; the mistura ferri, or the ammonio-chloride in doses of gr. ii.; the sulphate of zinc in small doses with ext. anthemidis—or the ammonio-sulphate of copper in doses of gr. ^ ter die, may be given with benefit if the circulation is languid; and quinine may be of use if the pain is periodic. The bowels should be kept open by nightly doses of the warmer aperients, such as aloes, or colocynth, with asafoetida, cajuput oil, or the com- pound galbanum pill. Acidity of the stomach must be counteracted by soda or magnesia; and inaction of the liver by occasional doses of the blue pill. Deficiency or excess in menstruation sliould be pro- perly looked after. “ Sometimes,” observes Sir B. Brodie, “ the symptoms have abated under the use of active purgatives ; or of vale- rian combined with bark and ammonia, or of injections of asafoetida.” F. 15 is one of his prescriptions for these cases. He also recommends warm fomentations, especially one composed of sp. rosmarin. 5iss and mist, camph. 3viss, or of lin. camph. ^iv., with ext. belladon. 5ii. Occasional leeching may be of service, but counter-irritants should be avoided. If the limb at any time become very hot, it should be sponged with tepid lotions ; but if cold, it should be wrapped up warmly in flannel and oiled silk. Amputation in these cases is use- less and cruel.* • Vide Brodie on the .Toints, 4th ed. p. 311. Brodie on Local Nervous Affections, Lond. 1837. Rowland on Neuralgia, Lend. 1838.