534 LITHOTOMY. tressing and weakening ; it will be well to guard against their recur- rence—the best way of doing which is to cover the patient well up in warm blankets, to give him a full opiate, or a glass of hot brandy and water. Above all things, in order to ensure safety, it is necessary to keep the patient in perfect quietness during the time he is under treatment; he should not be allowed to walk out, if the smallest fragment of stone be still in his bladder. SECTION XIII.—OP LITHOTOMY. Contra-indications,—The surgeon must, in the first place, ascertain that the patient is free from serious organic disease—which would render him liable to sink under the operation. Languor, depression, loss of strength and flesh and appetite, irregular shiverings, pain and tenderness in the loins, purulent or highly albuminous or bloody urine, indicating organic disease of the kidneys; excessively' frequent and painful micturition, with the urine constantly bloody and purulent, in- dicating serious organic disease or ulceration of the prostate or bladder —the existence of hectic or pulmonary consumption, or of any other extensive disease, require the surgeon to decline the operation—or at least to perform it only at the urgent and repeated request of the patient, who should be informed of its probable result. Preparatory Treatment.— In the second place, the patient must be well prepared by measures calculated to improve the general health, and to remove all disorder of the urine and irritability or congestion of the bladder. Pie should not even be sounded whilst labouring under any local or general vascular excitement. There are four methods in which lithotomy may be performed, viz. the lateral operation in the perimeura—the bilateral—the recto-vesical —and the high operation. The lateral is that which common consent has decided to be the best, except in a few rare instances. There are an infinity of minute variations in the manner of performing it, and in the instniments employed by different surgeons. In the following description the author avails himself principally of the directions given by Sir B. Brodie, Mr. Liston, and hir. Fergusson. Lateral Operation.— It is advisable that the bowels should be cleared on the morning of the operation with a simple enema. The bladder should be moderately full, and if the patient has recently emptied it, a few ounces of water may be injected. The patient should be under the influence of chloroform. It is desirable that the ex- istence of the stone should be clearly demonstrated with the sound or staff, immediately before the operation. Then the proceedings may commence by introducing the staff—a. solid steel rod like a sound, with a deep groove either on its convex border, or, as some surgeons prefer it, a little on its left side. It should be as large as can be conveniently introduced. The next point is to place the patient in a convenient postiue. lie