437 DISEASES OP THE CESOPHAGDS. be formed either by a protrusion of the mucous membrane through the muscular fibres, or by the sac of an abscess which has burst into the tube. The only remedy is, to feed the patient constantly with the stomach-pump, so that the pouch may be allowed to close. IV. Permanent Stricture of the oesophagus signifies a nar- rowing produced by an inflammatory thickening of its mucous and submucous coats, which form a firm ring encroaching on the canal. It is generally found just below the termination of the pharynx ; that is, opposite the cricoid cartilage, and is most frequent in females. The Symptoms are, difficulty of swallowing, noticed probably for j'ears—gradually increasing—never absent—and occasionally aggra- vated by fits of spasm. The act of swallowing frequently produces pain in the chest, which shoots between the shoulders, and up to the head. When a bougie is passed, it meets with an obstruction, and displays the impression of the stric- ture on its extremity. The causes of this affection are generally un- known : sometimes, however, it appears to be a sequel of repeated quins}", or to be caused by swallow- ing boiling or corrosive liquids ; in one case it appeared to be induced by violent retching in sea-sickness. The prognosis is always serious, especially if the complaint is of long duration. If unrelieved, its conse- queyiccs will be ulceration of the oesophagus, either above or below the stricture, with salivation, vomit- ing of purulent matter, and impossi- bility of deglutition, which in no long time will be followed by death. The fatal termination may be owing either to sheer starvation, or to the irritation of the local disease, or the extension of ulceration to the lungs. Treatment. — A mild course of mercury, so as just to affect the gums, occasional leeching, to relieve exacerbations of pain or spasm, com- bined with hyoscyamus or conium, if there be much irritability, a seton between the scapukc, and the occasional passage of a bougie, or of a hall prohang an ivory ball attached to a piece of whalebone or flexible ^ stricture of the cesophagus. From the Museum of the Miuulesex Hospital.