WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 454 a little behind their middle. The intercostal muscles are then to be cautiously divided, and the point of the bistoury to be passed through the pleura. If fluid escapes from this puncture, a trocar may be plunged in. When performed for the relief of empyema, this operation is liable to be followed by many of the mischiefs that result from the opening of large chronic abscesses. The pleural cavity is incapable of contracting as the pus escapes; air consequently enters to supply its place, and causes irritation of the cyst, and putrefaction of its contents. The discharge becomes profuse and fetid, and the patient suffers severely from irritative fever, under which he may sink. It is, there- fore, advisable to place the patient on the diseased side immediately after the puncture, so that the matter may flow out without the in- gress of air—to close the wound with lint and plaster before too much has escaped, to press the abdominal viscera upwards whilst the fluid is escaping, to bandage the chest afterwards, and to repeat the opera- tion in a few days, if necessary, instead of leaving the wound open. VI. Hydrops Pericardii may occur under the same pathological conditions as hydrothorax, and may be combined with it. Its diag- nosis is obscure. It may be suspected to exist if the patient complain of constant weight in the prajcordia, great dyspncea, especially when lying on the back, and faintness upon exertion; if there is great dulness on percussion, and manifest fulness over the region of the heart—if its pulsations are tremulous—and the circulation embar- rassed. The operation of paracentesis pericardii has been practised, although it can rarel}’- be of much beneht. It has been attempted in sundry cases of hydrothorax, which were mistaken for hydrops peri- cardii ; but by a second lucky mistake the pleura was opened instead. It may (if thought advisable) be performed, either by making an incision opposite the heart’s apex, and dividing the muscles and peri- cardium with the same precautions as in paracentesis thoracis—or by first making an opening into the pleura, opposite the junction of the fifth or sixth rib with its cartilage—and then introducing the finger, feeling for the distended pericardium, and cutting into it with curved scissors. VII. Wounds and Contusions of the Pariete.s of the chest require the same treatment, whether the ribs are fractured or not. A firm bandage (having an aperture to admit of the dressing of any wounds) must be applied to prevent motion of the ribs. Free vene- section must be employed to prevent inflammation ; the bowels must be opened, the diet low, and cough and irritation be allayed by opiates. V’lII. Penetrating Wounds of the thorax, unattended with wound of the lungs, are exceedingly rare. In some cases when the chest is laid open, the lung collapses, just as it would in a dead body ; in others, on the contrary, it does not recede from, or it even may protrude out of the wound. Treatment.— Bleeding must be restrained; foreign bodies and splinters of bone must be removed, and the wound be closed; then