572 ISSUES.—CAUTERY. — SETONS.—MOXA. distended ; and we have spoken of its utility in hydrocele, ganglion, hydrothorax, and ascites, for the pui-pose of permitting the serum to exude into the cellular tissue. ^'^I. Issues may be made bj’’ caustic or by incision, or by the actual cauter3^ The first maj' be made either by rubbing a portion of skin of the requisite extent with the potassa fiisa, or b}' making a paste with equal parts of the potass and soft soap, and laj’ing it on the skin till the latter is converted into a black slough. The parts immediatel}' around the issue should be protected with several layers of sticking plaster. After the application of the caustic, the part should be poul- ticed till the slough separates, and then the sore may be prevented from healing, either b}' binding several peas firmh’^ on its surface, or by touching it occasionally with the caustic. The second species of issue is made b_v pinching up the skin, and slitting it up with a lancet, and then introducing some peas to prevent it from healing. It maj’- be re- marked, that issues should never be made over projecting points of bones, nor over the bellies of muscles ; for they might degenerate into most obstinate sores. Thus, for diseased vertebra.', the issues should be made between the spinous and transverse processes; for disea.«ed hip, hchind the great trochanter, and not over it; for diseased knee, just below the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Issues if indolent or irritable, should be healed up. They are onlj’ of use, saj's Mr. Vincent, when the actions carried on in them are vigorous and healtliy. VII. The Actuai. Cautery is certainly a very efficient, and it is very far from being the most painful, manner of effecting counter-irri- tation. On the contrary, its effects are speedj', and not attended with ver}"^ much suffering. It is easih- effected I\y means of an iron rod with a knob of the size and shape of an olive at one end of it, and a wooden handle at the other. The knob being heated red hot, is rubbed on the skin so as to make two or three blackened lines about half an inch wide, and an inch asunder. Then the cold water dressing or a poultice ma\' be applied till the shallow eschars separate; and it appears to be better to keep the sores open by touching them occasionally with the cautery, than In’ the ordinary irritating dressings. VIII. Setonr arc introduced by pinching up a fold of the skin, and pushing a needle through it armed with a skein of silk or cotton, or a long flat piece of India-rubber. As soon as one or two inches of the thread are brought through, the needle is cut off. A fresh portion of the thread is to be pulled through the wound every daj’, so as to keep up a constant irritation and discharge. If the discharge is insufficient, the thread may be covered with some irritating ointment before it is drawn under the skin. IX. 'The Moxa is a peculiar method of counter-irritation long practised in the East, and occasionally employed in Europe, for the relief of chronic nervous and rheumatic pains, or for chronic diseases of the joints. f)nc or more small cones, formed of the fine fibres of the artemisia chinensis, or of some other porous vegetable substance—