187 TREATMENT OP SYPHILIS. unctuous applications, aperients, diaphoretics, salines, and opiates, during the early stages ;—subsequently, bark or sarsaparilla, and the mineral acids. Dr. Colles has described another and less severe form of eruption, which resembles the itch, except that the intervals be- tween the fingers are free from it ; the treatment is the same. When a patient who is disposed to these affections reveiis to the use of mercury, the doses should be small, combined with hyoscyamus, and he should carefully avoid heat, violent exercise, and everything else that excites the cutaneous circulation. 5. Erethismus mcrcurialis consists in a tendency to palsy of the heart. The symptoms are great depression of strength; anxiety about the praecordia, dyspnoea, frequent sighing, weak and tumultuous ac- tion of the heart;—frequent sense of suffocation, disturbed sleep, and faintness upon any exertion ; which faintness may prove fatal. Treat- ment. Removal to a fresh atmosphere ; stimulants ; especially the mistura moschi ; tonics ; and good living.* If during the mercurial course anj' febrile or inflammatory attack arise, it is a general rule to discontinue it until such a state has been removed. And if the patient become thin and feeble ; losing his appe- tite and strength; complaining of disturbed sleep, night sweats, cough, or any other sjunptoras indicative of debility, his diet must be gene- rous, and sarsaparilla or cinchona and other tonics must be liberally administered; and if these sj'mptoms continue, notwithstanding the mercury is given in diminished doses, it must be relinquished alto- gether. Corrosive sublimate with tincture of bark is often useful when the mineral cannot be taken in the regular way. F. 8'2—85, 87, &c. If the patient is very easily salivated, the doses must be very small, and at distant intervals, and the strength must be well supported by tonics and good living. If, on the other hand, as sometimes happens, the mercury seems to make no impression on the system, the patient should use the warm bath and live low. If very robust, he may be bled and purged. But the doses must not bo very much increased, lest they suddenly induce violent salivation, or erethismus. There are some patients whom it is scarcely advisable to subject to a mercurial course, viz., those actually labouring under consumption or scrofula; or who are extremely debilitated, or who are liable to the erethismus. For these and other cases in which mercury is unadvisable, the iodide of potassium has been proposed as a substitute; in doses of gT. i.—in. ter die. It produces a groat flow of urine. In overdoses, it causes sickness, salivation, and emaciation; with symptoms of violent cold in the head and swelling of tlie ej'es. Mr. Since has recommended tartar emetic in doses of gr. i—;}- every four or five hours, both in primary and secondary syphilis. It may be combined with iron or zinc if there is much debility.f * Vide Dr. Hateman’s case. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ix. Colics’ Lectures on Surgery, vol. 11. 2-12. t Med. Gaz., Sept. lOtli, 1842.