502 DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. Of stricture there are three varieties ; 1, the •permanent or organic stricture, in which the urethra is contracted and condensed from clironic inflammation; 2, the spasmodic stricture arising from spasm of the muscular fibres which surround the membranous portion ; and 3, this in certain cases is combined with some degree of acute inflam- mation, whence the term inflammatory stricture. Spasmodic Stricture depends on spasm of the muscular fibres* which surround the membranous portion of the urethra. It generally affects persons who are labouring under some degree of permanent stricture, or whose urethra has been rendered irritable by repeated attacks of gonorrhcea, or by a diseased condition of the urine (especi- ally a tendency to phosphatic deposits) ; these therefore are the pre- disposing causes. The usual exciting causes are, exposure to cold and wet, and indulgence in punch or champagne, or similar acid liquors, which disorder the stomach and render the urine unusually irritating. Hence an attack of spasmodic stricture generally comes on about four hours after dinner. It may also be caused by cantharides, whether taken by the mouth, or absorbed from blisters applied to the skin. Theare,—sudden Retention of Urine; that is to saj% the patient finds himself suddenly unable to pass his water, although he has a great desire and makes repeated straining efforts to do so. The bladder soon becomes distended, and can be felt as a tense round tumour above the pubes, and unless relief is given, the countenance becomes anxious, the pulse quick, and the skin hot. The straining efforts at micturition also become more frequent and violent, and the distress and restlessness are extreme. In this way, if unrelieved, the patient may perhaps go on for three or four days; a little urine pass- ing occasionally when the spasm is less urgent, but the bladder still remaining loaded ; till at last either the bladder bursts into the peri- tonteum; or, as more frequently happens, the urethra behind the stricture (which of course liecomes dilated and weakened under the pressure of the urine impelled by the whole force of the abdominal muscles) bursts into the perinanim, and gives rise to extravasation of urine, as will be described in the third section. The inflammatory stricture is a variety of the preceding, in which great pain and tenderness of the perinanim, and fever, are combined with spasm. It is generally caused b}' abuse of injections, or by exposure and intemperance during acute gonorrhma. The treatment of this and of the spasmodic variety must be the same. Treatment.—In the first place the bladder must be relieved if pos- sible. A silver catheter may first be introduced. But if that fails to pass, the surgeon may try a gum catheter of the smallest size, which has been kept for some time on a curved wire, so that it retains its curve when the wire is withdrawn. If that also fail, a catgut bougie, or a common bougie, may be tried in succession, the surgeon endeavour- ♦ Particularly descrified by Mr. Guthrie in liis work on the Urinary and Sexual Organs, 3rd ed. Lond. 1843.