LITHOTOMY. 537 and bring it down horizontallj’^. Mr. Key preferred a straight staff. Again, there are gre.at diversities in tlie manner of cutting into the bladder. Some persons use a bistouri cache, an instrument containing a blade that protrudes to a certain extent on touching a spring. Sir B. Brodie prefers a beaked knife; or, if the stone is very large, a double-edged knife with a beak in the centre, so as to divide both sides of the prostate. When the bladder is opened he directs the wound to be dilated by means of the blunt gor- get, which distends the neck of the bladder, and splits cleanly through the prostate, without any risk of haemorrhage or mischief. Many sur- geons open the bladder by means of the cutting : gorget; the beak of which being put into the groove of the staff, held horizontally in the operator’s left hand, it is pushed cautiously on, and made to cut its way into the bladder. If this instrument is employed, every precaution must be used to keep it in contact with the staff, and not to let it slip between the bladder and rectum,—an accident that has been the death of not a few. In the case of a very large stone, it will be expedient to divide both sides of the prostate. This may be done, either by cutting into the bladder i with a double-edged beaked knife—or after one side is incised in the ordinary way, by cutting through a little of the other with a probe- pointed bistoury, the edge of which should be directed towards the right tuber ischii. Lastly, there is a method which was occasionally employed by Cheselden, and which is still practised by a very expe- ; rienced and successful lithotomist, Mr. C. Mayo, of Winchester. In 1 this method, the operator, after making the usual external incisions, f“ cuts into the side of the prostate as far back as he can reach, and brings out the knife, along the groove of the staff, into the membra- nous part of the urethra;” thus making the incision into the neck of Ithe bladder from behind forwards, instead of from before backwards, as in the other varieties.f * This diagram, copied from a paper by Mr. Bryan, Lancet, Fob. 11th, 1843, ;i is useful as exhibiting an internal view of the parts at the neck of the bladder ' concerned in lithotomy; a vasa deferentia ; b vosiculaj seiniuales ; c prostate ; d ureters. t There has been very much dispute about this operation of Chcsclden’s ; because he had two manners of performing it; the first, which was described »