178 GONORRIKEA. of the urinary organs; it may be right to apply leeches to the peri- nmum, or even to take blood from the arm, and to administer opium pretty freely with antimony. It is decidedly not safe to use injections with young, delicate, irri- table subjects during the acute stage, and most especially whilst there is any tenderness of the glands of the groin, or any aching in the sper- matic cord or testicles, as they might easil}”^ produce swelled testicle, or great irritation of the neck of the bladder. And, as a general rule, it is best to refrain from them altogether, till the inflammatory symp- toms are mitigated by the antiphlogistic remedies before mentioned. Treatment of Complications.—Painful erections and chordee may be relieved by bathing the parts with tepid or cold water, and a diapho- retic, F. C3, &c., or a small dose of camphor and extract of henbane, at bedtime; F. 30; and if the chordee lasts long, a little mercurial oint- ment and extract of belladonna should be smeared on the part at bedtime. Haemorrhage may be checked by cold, and pressure on the urethra. Inflammation of the mucous glands of the urethra is to be treated by leeches and poultices. An opening must be made if the swelling obstructs the flow of urine, but not otherwise. Swelling of the glands in the groin may generally be removed by rest, and, if necessary, a few leeches. Of the third stage.—As soon as the acute stage has subsided, the patient should use the injections of nitrate of silver, followed by zinc, in the same manner as was recommended for the first stage. If the discharge does not cease entirely, or if it comes back again, other injections, F. 135—13.0, may be tried ; adapting their strength to the irritiibility of the part, and not permitting them to cause severe pain. But a gleet is often a very tedious complaint, and requires a judi- cious and long-continued course of remedies that act on the urinary organs, together with most temperate habits of living. Copaiba, either alone or combined with astringents, F. 176; and cantha- rides, especially in combination with zinc, F. 179, or steel, F. 180, are the most useful remedies. Mr. Acton has seen great benefit derived from injections of one grain of prot-ioduret of iron and an ounce of water, gradually increased in strength. The bowels should be kept properly open, but saline purgatives should be avoided. If the patient wants to make water oftener than natural, and there is an uneasy sensation in the urethra afterwards, and the urine deposits a mucous cloud, buchu and uva ursi (F. 181) will be advisable. The occasional passing of a bougie, large enough to fill the urethra without stretching it, will also be of material service. It is also highly useful in these cases to inject the urethra with cold water from an elastic bottle, twice a day. If the urine is prcternaturally acid, or loaded with the phosphates; or the digestive organs deranged ; the case should be treated as directed in the section on urinary deposits. If the health is materially enfeebled by debauchery or malpractices, affusion of cold water on the genitals, cold sea-bathing, blisters to