DISEASE OP THE CnOROID. 386 over the eyebrow, and visions of black spots, .and flashes of light. The pupil is dilated, and moves sluggishly ; the eye feels hard ; and its blood-vessels often appear dilated and varicose. The patient is generally from forty to sixty years of age, and the disease appears to partake of the nature of senile degeneration. It may be distinguished from cataract, by the greenish colour, and indistinct nature of the opacity ; which resembles, as Mr. Tyrrell observes, the reflection of the sun’s r.ays from a muddy pool, and by its being seen deep in the eye ; whereas in cataract, a definite whitish op.ike body is seen imme- diately behind the pupil. The opacity disappears, moreover, in glau- coma when looked at sideways, which is not the case in cat.aract. . Vision is assisted by a strong light in glaucoma ; but the reverse in cafaract. If the eye be examined by means of the reflection of a lighted candle, as was shown in the section on cataract, the inverted image, which is soon obliterated in cataract, is distinctly perceptible in the earlier stages of glaucoma; although not in the later st.ages; yet it continues to be formed by the circumference of the lens after it is im- perceptible at the centre.* The deep erect image, however, continues more distinct even than in the healthy eye ; whereas it is absent in cataract. Treatment.—It is of no use to adopt .any other treatment for the ordinary chronic glaucomatous degeneration of age, beyond abstinence frorii exertion of the eye ; and from anything likely to disorder the health. But if the afiection begin suddenly with acute symptoms of a gouty character, as it does sometimes, they must be combated by cupping, counter-irritation, and the other remedies proposed for the arthritic iritis. * SECTION XII. OF THE DISEASES OF THE CHOnoiD ; AND OF SYNCHYSIS AND HYDKOPTHALMIA. I. Inflammation of the Choroid, or Choroiditis, is not a common disease, and is apt to be overlooked in its early stages ; Dr. Mackenzie has generally met with it in strumous females. Symptoms.—It commences with more or less intolerance of light, and dimness of vision, together with pain in the eye, eyebrow and forehc.ad, and lachrjmation. The conjunctiva is not uniformly red, but one or more enlarged vessels are seen to proceed from the back of the eye, and to terminate in a vascular zone parti.ally surrounding the cornea. The pupil is often displaced, and brought towards the af- fected side of the choroid. If it proceed, the sclerotic becomes thin and blue, showing the choroid through it—a watery fluid is eflfused between the choroid .and retina, causing the thinned part of the sclero- tic to bulge out (staphyloma scleroticce), and finally the cornea may * When the candle is held in the axis of the eye, the inverted image is ob- scure, both in incipient cataract .and in incipient glaucoma; but when it is moved to one side, it becomes distinct in glaucoma, but remains obscure in cataract.