LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 606 found by making an incision through the same parts and for the same extent, hut an inch and a half lower down. Both these operations are extremely difficult, from the great depth to which the dissection must be carried, the unyielding nature of the surrounding parts, and the haemorrhage from the numerous blood-vessels that must necessarily he wounded. They should be attempted, however, in case of wounds ; hut for aneurisms of these arteries, it is necessary to tie the internal or common iliac. XVI. The Popliteal .artery may he tied by cutting through the skin and fascia Lata for the extent of three inches on the outer border of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle, the patient being placed on his face, with his knee straight. On pressing that tendon inward.s, the artery may be felt. Its vein, which lies superficial and rather external to it, must be c.autiouslj’ separated and drawn out- wards, and the needle be passed between them. This operation is very seldom performed. XVII. Posterior Tibial Artery.—The operation usually re- commended for tying this artery in the upper part of the leg is per- formed thus; The limb being placed on its outer side, with the knee bent and the foot extended, an incision four inches in length must be made through the skin and fascia over the inner margin of the tibia, avoiding the saphena vein. The edge of the gastrocnemius thus ex- posed is to be turned back. A director must then be insinu.ated be- neath the inner head of the solmus, and this muscle must be divided from its attachment to the tibia. The strong and tense fascia beneath it must next be divided in the same manner. Then the muscles being relaxed as much as possible by bending the knee and extend- ing the foot, the artery may be felt about an inch from the edge of the tibia. The veins are to be sep.arated from it, and an aneurism- needle passed round it from without, inwards, so as to avoid the nerve. This operation, however, is considered by Mr. Guthrie to be so “ painful, difficult, bloody, tedious, .and dangerous,” that he proposes to reach the artery by making a perpendicular incision six or seven inches in length, at the back of the leg, through the skin, gastrocne- mius, plantaris, and solmus, then the fascia will be exposed with the artery beneath it, .and the nerve to the outer side. Perhaps this ope- ration cannot be spoken of in much more complimentary terms than the preceding one. The posterior tibi.al artery m.ay be easily exposed, in the lower third of the leg, by cutting par.allel to the tendo Achillis, and on its inner side, for the extent of two or three inches, through the skin .and two layers of fascia. The cellular tissue and sheath of the vessel must next be cautiously divided, and the veme comites h.aving been sep.a- rated from it, the needle must be passed round the vessel from the outer side. This artery may also be tied behind the inner ankle. A semilunar incision, two or three inclics long, is made in the hollow between the