TUMOURS OF THE SKIN. 203 irritation ; — still that they do not appear in several remote organs simultaneously, and do not return if effectually removed, and on micro- scopical examination are said not to contain the peculiar constituents of malignant growths, although they cannot be distinguished from them by the naked eye. 1. One of the most important examples of such diseases is what is called the chimney sweeper's cancer of the scrotum, which is further treated of in Chapter XXI. Sect. 3. It may be taken as the type of a class of cancroid affections of the skin, which commence as warty growths, composed of hypertrophied epidermic scales, which grow, soften, ulcerate, throw out fungous masses, spread, and finally destroy the patient by exhaustion. Another very similar affection is that which Mr. Cmsar Hawkins has designated the ivarty tumour of cica- trices, which occasionally appears on old scars. “ There appears, in the first place, a little wart, or warty tumour in the cicatrix, which is dry and covered with a thin cuticle, but which soon becomes moist, and partially ulcerated, like the warts of mucous membranes, from which a thin and semi-purulent fluid is secreted. In this stage it gives no pain or inconvenience.” After a time the warts are con- verted into a more solid tumour like fungus haematodes, very vascular, and easily bleeding when touched. And this finally ulcerates or sloughs, forming a foul excavated ulcer, with fresh growths of warts around it, which may destroy the patient by its constant irritation and discharge. The remedy is extirpation with the knife ; or ampu- tation of the affected limb, if the diseased growth is very extensive ; and the patient may be confidently assured, that if thoroughly extir- pated it will not return.* 2. There is a class of affections hitherto thought to be cancerous, which is particularly liable to affect the skin near one of the natural orifices of the body where there is a great abundance of follicles (as the lip or glans penis), or else on some part of the face or neck. The most common forms are,—1st, A small tubercular deposit, generally of a reddish or dirty grey hue, which, after continuing perhaps for years in an indolent or slowly enlarging state, becomes irritated, and degenerates into a foul ulcer. 2nd, Infiltration of a portion of skin with scirrhous-looking matter, producing a darkish thickened appear- ance, something like a mole. This generally soon becomes covered with a crust of cuticle, resembling the bark of a tree (whence Dr. Warren applied the term lepoides to this affection); under which, in process of time, ulceration slowly proceeds. 3rd, Sometimes a chap or fissure, arising apparently' from accidental causes, assumes a hardened scir- rhous-like base, and becomes a foul ulcer. It has always been agreed that cancer of the skin is of slower ♦ Caesar Hawkins, Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xix. Yet, to show how incomplete is the separation between cancerous and cancroid growtlis, Mr. Robert W. Smith ha.s published a case in which one of these growths in the leg wa.s followed by cancerous cachexia and similar growths in the groin and death. Dub. <iuar. Jour. Med. Sc., May, 1850.