PRIMARY SYPHILIS. ]81 the second and third days it swells slightl}^ and becomes a pimple, sur- rounded by a red areola; from the third to the fourth day, the cuticle is raised by a turbid fluid into a vesicle, which displays a black spot on its summit, consisting of the dried blood of the puncture; from the fourth to the fifth day, the morbid secretion increases tind becomes purulent, and the vesicle becomes a pustide with a depressed summit. At this period the areola, which had increased, begins to fade, but the subjacent tissues become infiltrated and hardened with lymph. After the sixth day, if the cuticle and the dried pus which adheres to it be removed, there is found an ulcer, resting on a hardened base; its depth equal to the whole thickness of the true skin, its edges seeming as if cleanly cut out w'itli a punch-—its surface covered with a greyish pultaceous matter, and its mtirgin hard, elevated, and of a reddish brown or violet colour.* II. The nox-indurated chancre is most frequently found on the inner surface of the prepuce. It may be said to have four stages. In the 1st, it is a small itchingor pustule, which bursting, displays—2ndly, a foul yeUoicish or tuu-nep sore, attended with slight redness and swelling, and spreading circularly. It may or ma}' not be covered at first with a dirty brow'n scab. In the 3rd stage it throws out indolent fungous granulations, — except it be situated on the plans (for the substance of the glans jienis has no power of throwing out granulations, although its surface may), and is usually stationary for a little time after it has ceased to ulcerate, and before it begins to heal. In the 4th stage, it slowly heals; cicatriza- tion being preceded by a narrow vascular line. The cicatrix is often red and indurated ;—swelled, if on the prepuce ; but dejiressed, if on the glans, from w'ant of granulations. It is exceedingly liable to ulcerate afresh. If the ulcer be seated near the frmnum, it is almost sure to perforate it. Finally, an ea'coriaiion or a. fissure of the prepuce ma}' be infected, and may be followed by secondary symptoms. But if ulceration does not spread, it will be veiy difficult to say whether it is a venereal ulcer, or merely a common fissure or excoriation obstinate in healing; for, in both cases, it may appear yellowish and indolent. Inoculation is the test. III. Chancre complicated with Phaged/ena or Slou(;hing. (a) Phafiedcenic chancres are extremely rapid in their jirogress, and highly painful; their surface yellow and dotted with red streaks ; their shape irregular ; their edges ragged or undermined ; and the discharge profuse, thin, and sanious. The surrounding margin of skin usually looks puffy and cedematous, showing a low grade of vitality; but sometimes it is firm and of a vivid red. Sometimes the.se ulcers eat deeply into the substance of the penis ; sometimes they undermine the skin extensively; but in general they sjiread widely but not deeply. Sores of this lust description are called serjiiyinous. Hiconi, op. cit. p. 89.