503 SPASMODIC STKICTURE. ing to get them within the gripe of the stricture; after which if they are withdrawn, a stream of urine will generally follow. In introducing either of these instruments, the surgeon should he careful, 1st, to draw the penis well forwards on it, so as to stretch the urethra, and prevent the instrument from becoming entangled. 2ndly. To make the point slide along the upper surface of the urethra. 3rdly. On meeting with the obstruction, to press against it steadily, but very gently. And by one or other of these means, used with delicacy and perseverance for five or ten minutes, the strictime will in most cases be made to yield.* The size of the instruments employed should vary according to the duration of the disease ; being small if that is of long standing ; but larger if it is only of recent formation. If, however, the}’ all fail, certain remedies for relaxing the spasm must next be resorted to; such as, (a) Venaesection, or cupping from the perinEEum—if the patient is of a plethoric habit, and complains of much pain ; (6) An enema, or some purgative of speedy operation—if the attack is caused by excess at table; followed by (c) an enema of solution of starch f^iii with tinct., opii f 5 i, or by repeated doses of opium or Dover’s powder ; together with (</) immersion of the whole body in a warm bath, are the most useful. But there are many others that are often of very great service; especially (e) the tinct. ferri scsquiddoridi in doses of m^x every ten minutes—(/) affusion of cold water on the genitals—(^) large draughts of lime water—(//) and belladonna smeared on the perinmum. (i) A slight touch with the caustic bougie sometimes pro- duces immediate relief, when there is some degree of permanent stricture, which is exceedingly irritable, and liable to frequent spasm. (/.■) Quinine has cured cases in which spasmodic stricture occurred periodically. But the most generally useful remedy of all, is opium or chloro- form; either of which will allay the extreme anxiety of the patient, <ind stop his repeated strainings ; for the stricture generally relaxes when it is relieved from the constant pressure of the urine against it. Puncture oj the bladder.— If none of these means succeed, and the bladder has become exceedingly distended, it must be punctured. But this operation, although sometimes necessary to save life, is not very frequently pertormcd. The time at which it must be done must be decided by the surgeon’s judgment; sometimes, as Sir B. Brodie ob- serves, it is necessary within thirty-six hours, sometimes not for three or four days. I he puncture may be made in three places, viz. 1, by the rectum, 2, above the pubes, or 3, the urethra may be opened in the perinreum. I he first operation is preferred by some surgeons in cases of retention of urine by stricture, but is very seldom performed ; the second is ncedtul when the prostate is enlarged so as to render puncture by the rectum impossible; and the third when urine is extra- vasated, and in most cases of impassable stricture. • 'Ilie surgeon sliould always pa.s.s the instnimoiit through the palm of his hand, belore introducing it into the urethra, to make sure that it is smooth and fit for use.