4 PROSTRATION WITH EXCITEMENT. enema (F. 102), or by a mustard poultice (F. 156) to the epigastrium. —Hiccup may be relieved by small doses of sp. aetheris comp.—Con- vulsions, delirium, and coim, are to be treated according to the state of the circulation ; by ammonia and stimulants whilst it is depressed, but by a verj- cautious bleeding, or leeching, or purging, or application of cold to the head, if they remain after the circulation is restored, and the pulse has become firm.—In an extreme case it might be worth while to kill a sheep, strip off the skin immediately, and wrap the patient in it. Baron LaiTey had seen this done by certain humane Esquimaux, with the greatest benefit, to some shipwrecked French- men that were half dead with cold, fatigue, and hunger ; and he put it in practice with equal success in the case of Marshal Lannes, Due de Slontebello, when he was dangerously bruised by a fall from his horse during one of Napoleon’s Spanish campaigns. Finally, the vulgar and mischievous habit of bleeding patients im- mediately after an injury, before they have recovered from a state of faintness and depression, needs only to be mentioned to be condemned. CHAPTER II. OF PROSTRATION WITH EXCITEMENT, AND DELIRIUM TRAUMATICUM. Definition.'—“ Prostration with excitement .and excessive reac- tion,” is the term used by IMr. Travers to signify a state which some- times follows the collapse from a severe injury. Symptoms.—The symptoms varj^ extremely in different cases, although they present the uniform character of extreme and exliaustiny excitement, without genuine febrile action. There is great anxiety about the regioii'of the heart: the respiration is oppressed and sigh- ing ; the pulse exceedingly rapid and bounding, but soft and com- pressible ; the face is flushed, and there is vomiting. But, in the majority of these cases, the principal feature is the excitement of the nervous system, which is manifested by a pecidiar delirium {delirium traumaticum) precisely similar to the delirium tremens. The tongue is moist and tremulous; there is a general tremor of the muscles; the skin is covered with perspiration; the patient is totally sleepless, irrita- ble in his temper, answers questions in a snappish, or peevish, or inco- herent manner; is often anxious to call himself perfectly well; and, as the malady increases, he becomes restless, impatient, and talkative ; wishes, perhaps, to get out of bed, and attempts to injure his atten- dants, and soon becomes most furiously maniacal. In some cases, however, the delirium is of a milder cast; the patient is haunted with extravagant ideas and spectrid illusions ; or fancies himself busied in liis ordinary avocations, and talks perpetually about them.