DISEASES OP THE BLADDER. 517 may be given, i£ required for the state of the stomach ; as will be shown when speaking of the treatment of urinary deposits, p. 52G. Besides these remedies, the bladder may be acted on by certain medicines, and by injections. Of medicines, the most useful, accord- ing to Brodie, is the root of the pareira brava, an ounce of which should be boiled in three pints of water down to a pint, and the decoction be administered in doses of 3iv ier die—or the extract of pareira in doses of gr. xxx ter die may be substituted. Uva ursi, or buchu, in doses of an ounce or two of a strong infusion or decoction, F. 181 j or oil of turpentine (Tlj^xv.), or chian turpentine (gr. ii.), or cubebs (gr. XV.), or copaiba (Tl^xx.), or tinct. ferri mur. (ll(xv.)—in small doses three times a day, are also remedies of similai’ virtues. Hyoscyamus or opium, and small doses of mineral acids, if the urine is highly alkaline, may be added to any of them. The sulphate of zinc may also be highly useful, F. 9. Injections into the bladder are not to be thought of when there is acute inflammation of the bladder and blood mixed with the mucus, but they are highly serviceable in chronic cases, by relieving the irri- tability of the bladder, and washing out the organ, getting rid of the decomposed stinking urine and mucus. Injections of simple warm water are very useful; the best way of effecting them is that employed by Mr. W. Fergusson; it is, to have a catheter with a double passage, and to throw in the water in a continuous stream by means of a small syringe like that of a stomach pump. Three or four pints of water may thus be passed through the bladder daily. Decoction of poppies or laudanum ma}' be added in some cases. Moreover, injections of very dilute nitric acid (Tr(i—ii—ad 5iss aq. destil.) thrown into jthe bladder not oftener than once a day, through a double gold catheter, and allowed to remain thirty seconds, ai'e of great service when the urine is highlj’ ammoniacal. III. Irritable Bladder —Many cases described under this title are cases of chronic inflammation. Simple irritability, that is, a frequent disposition to pass the urine without any disease, may be caused by an irritating state of the urine ; the qualities of which, and the presence or otherwise of albumen should be ascertained ; or it may be the effect of mere nervousness, which is not uncommon in elderlj’' people ; or of irritation of the rectum. IV. Paraly.sis of the bladder may occur under many circumstances. It may be caused by injury or disease of the head or spine ; it is often present in typhus fever—it may be caused for a time by .any severe injury, especially of the legs—it generallj' rem.ains for a few d.ays after the bladder has been long distended, whether from prostatic disease or stricture — and it sometimes occurs suddenly to nervous sedentary people, who, if they let their bladder get filled beyond a certain point, find that they cannot empty it. The symptoms of it are, either retention of urine ; i. e., that the patient cannot make water ; or else incontinence of urine; th.at is, the water dribbles .aw.ay without his being able to hold it. The diagnosis of retention through