405 HTPERTROPHY OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. mucous membrane of the ear, particularly if the cavity of the tj-m- panum has suppurated. There is constant oiorrhcBa, and the discharge is sanious and fetid, and stains silver probes. Perhaps the meatus is choked with fungous granulations. This is a most serious disease. Death may be caused by extension of the caries to the cranial ca- vity, and suppuration on the dura-mater, or by inflammation of the brain or its membranes, through contiguous irritation,—or the side of the face may be palsied through compression of the portio-dura. Sometimes an abscess bursts behind the ear, or burrows amongst the muscles of the neck and points low down. . Treatment.—Tonics, alteratives, counter-irritants, and astringent in- jections (or F. 119), frequently repeated, to wash away the fetid dis- charge. Any portions of loose bone should be cautiously extracted. Sir P. Crampton drew from the meatus of a young lady, a piece of bone comprising the entire internal ear— vestibule, cochlea, and semicircular canals, with a small portion of the inner wall of the tympanum. The patient had urgent symptoms of inflammation of the brain, with hemi- plegia, and total deafness of one ear, but ultimately recovered. Ab- scesses near the ear should be opened as soon as possible. If the patient be labouring under secondary venereal symptoms, sarsaparilla and iodide of potassium may be given with advantage. If inflamma- tion, or symptoms of compression of the brain supervene, they must be treated as was detailed in Chapter X., recollecting that depletion and mercury must be used with the greatest moderation, as they can- not remove the exciting cause. VIII. . Earache—{otalgia). This term ought to be restricted to I signify neuralgia of the ear. Genuine neuralgia of the ear,—occur- I ring in fits of excruciating pain, shooting over the head and face, —may be distinguished from otitis by the sudden intensity of the ] pain,—which is not throbbing,—does not increase in severity,—is not I attended with fever,—and comes and goes capriciously. Its causes I are the same as those of neuralgia generally, but particularly caries of tthe teeth; and its principally consists in removing carious t teeth, or stopping them, and giving purgatives followed by quinine sand afterwards iron. What is popularly called earache is an in- tflammatory pain,—perhaps the precursor of otorrhoea, —to be treated I by fomentations and purgatives. Carious teeth, if any, should be (extracted, and gum boils be opened. IX. Hypertrophy of the External Ear.—Dr. Graves men- ttions a case in which the pendant lobes of the ears became tbickened ;and elongated through a deposit of fat into their cellular tissue ; in a npatient who died of fatty degeneration of the liver. The author has -seen one or two cases in which the whole external ear was excessively 1 enlarged and thickened ; but he would not have included them in this I (chapter, had not Dr. Graves appeared to consider the affection an un- ( (Common one.* • Graves's Clinical Medicine, p. 581.