116 PUNCTUHED WOUNDS. (a finger or part of the nose for instance) has been completely cut off, and if it be reapplied as soon as possible, and retained by plasters or sutures, and wrapped up so as to preserve its temperature, it will very probably unite again. And even if such a part have been separated for a considerable time, the attempt should not be given up ;—but it should be well washed in warm water to free it from dirt, and the stump should also be bathed, so as to remove any dry coagulated blood, before they are reapplied to each other. Part of the left fore- finger, an inch and a half long, having been cut off for twenty mi- nutes, was replaced and united perfectly in four days. The case is related by Dr. Balfour of Edinburgh, and is quoted in Sir A. Cooper’s lectures. Cure of open Wounds.—If a part has been abstracted which cannot be restored ;—or if any kind of wound cannot be covered by skin, the first plan on which it may be treated, is by endeavouring to form a scab ; by covering the wound with pledgets of soft lint soaked in blood, which are to be allowed to dry and adhere. This is the natural and simple way in which most slight accidents heal when not interfered with by art, and Mr. Wardrop has seen the large surface exposed by the removal of a diseased breast heal completely under a crust of blood in thirty days. The old-fashioned remedy, the Friar's Balsam, or Tinct. Benzoes comp., is an excellent application for wounds attended with some degree of contusion. If there is no pain, or bad smell, the wound should be allowed to remain unopened till the scabs drop off, and show a cicatrix under- neath. But if it becomes painful, and a fetid matter oozes out, warm poultices or water dressing should be applied, and the wound be treated like a common granulating sore. Or, instead of attempting to form a scab, the surgeon may apply water dressing, or poultices from the first, when, if the case proceeds favourably, the wound will become filled with a pink lymph, which forms a pliant cicatrix, without granulation, and without suppuration. CHAPTER II. OF PUNCTURED WOUNDS. General Description.—These arc justly esteemed the most dan- gerous of all wounds. (1.) Because from their depth they are liable to implicate blood-vessels, nerves, viscera, and other deep-seated parts of importance. (2.) Because the parts which they traverse are stretched and torn, and consequently are disposed to inflame and suppurate. (3.) Because matter when formed has no free exit, and is liable to burrow extensively. (4.) Because foreign bodies may be