WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 455 the surgeon must employ free bleeding, and the other measures spoken of above. The intercostal arteri/, if wounded, must, if possible, Ije tied, with a curved needle or tenaculum, the wound being enlarged for that purpose if necessary. If this cannot be done, pressure must be kept up on the bleeding orifice by the finger. If the lung pro- trudes, the rule generally given is, to return it as cpiickly as possible, unless it is injured or beginning to mortify; but Mr. Guthrie recom- mends that it should be permitted to remain, as it closes the aperture into the pleura, and speedily granulates and heals over. IX. Wounds of the Lung are known by the following symp- toms : Great dyspnoea and sense of suffocation ; the countenance pallid and extremely anxious—and expectoration of blood, which is coughed up in florid arterial mouthfuls, mi.xed with occasional clots. The dangers of these wounds are threefold. 1st. The great hcemor- rhage, which may destroy the patient by exhaustion, or may fill up the air passages and induce suffocation. 2ndlj'. Inflammation, which is sure to supervene from the injury, and may be aggravated by the irritation of clots of blood, or of other extraneous bodies. 3rdly. Pro- fuse and exhausting suppuration, with cough, debility, hectic, and all the symptoms of phthisis. Prognosis.—This of course must be extremely guarded. But there may be good hopes of recovery after the third day is passed. Death is seldom caused after the first forty hours. Treatment.—The first indication is to check the hajmorrhage. This can only be done by abstracting a large quantity of blood from the arm, pro\nded the patient be not already faint, and by the free ad- ministration of opium. Then the wound should be examined, and if it be of large size, or a gunshot wound, the finger should be intro- duced into it, to remove clots of blood, splinters of bone, or any other foreign substances that it may find. If it is not sufficiently large for this purpose, it may be dilated by a probe-pointed bistoury. At the same time, an intercostal artery, if wounded, should be secured. The wound should then be accurately closed with lint and plaster, and the patient should be suffered to lie as quiet as possible. He should have plenty of cool air, and a very light covering. It is a general rule, in all injuries of the thorax and abdomen, to place him on the wounded side. If in the course of a few hours, in spite of the opium, the pulse rises and the pain, and cough, and spitting of blood return, venesec- tion must bo repeated. The diet must be rigorously low; nothing but iced lemonade, barleywater, or milk and water can be allowed for several days; the bowels must be opened, and opiates be given to allay cough and pain. Secondary haimorrliage, after wounds of the lung, may, 1, be caused by inflammatory excitement; or, 2, (if the wound be gunshot) by the separation of sloughs from the lung ; or, 3, by the sloughing of an intercostal artery that maj' have been brushed by the ball. Vene- section is the remedy for the first two cases, and the ligature, or pressure, for the third.