16 ACUTE TETANUS. the patient being in general sensible, and calm to the last;—whereas in hydrophobia, there are fits of general convulsions w\\\\ perfect inler- missiotis, and the patient is mostlj^ delirious, with a peculiarly wild haggard expression of countenance. Jnflavimaiion of the spinal cord, or its memhranes, resembles tetanus in being accompanied by opistho- tonos and spasmodic difficulty of swallowing ; but it may be distin- guished by the pain in the back and fever being more predominant than in any case of mere tetanus, and by the paraplegia and coma which supervene in most cases. Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances that have been found in different cases are as follow:—Increased vascularity of the mem- branes and substance of the spinal cord, with or without effusion of serum ;—more rarely the same appearances have been found in the cranium ;—flakes of cartilage and spicula of bone deposited in the membranes of the spinal cord ; *—vascularity of the nerves leading from the wounded part;—of the mucous membrane of the stomach ; and of the sympathetic ganglia;—and congestion of the lungs. But there is not one of these morbid changes that is constantly, and, except the first, there is not one of them that is even frequently, found. The muscles are extremelj’ rigid after death, and ecchy- mosed or ruptured in man}' parts ;—the blood is mostly uncoagu- lated. Causes.—Tetanus may be caused by wounds and external injuries of every description, but especially by lacerated and punctured wounds of the hands and feet, gun-shot wounds, compound fractures, com- pound dislocation of the thumb, and wounds irritated by foreign mat- ters, or in which nerves are exposed. Mr. jNIorgan has known it even caused by a blow with a schoolmaster’s fende ; but it is very rarely caused by clean simple incisions. The period at which it may come on after the injury is very uncertain. Sometimes it occurs ver}- quickly, if the patient is predisposed to it. Sometimes it seems to be induced by the great pain and irritation of a wound during its in- flammatory state ; but the most common period is, when the wound is nearly healed. -Why this is so, is very difficult to explain; but some attribute it to a rapid cessation of suppuration, and others (as Tmka and Travers) to an irritation of the nerves by the contraction of the cicatrix. It is probable, however, that in most instances some concurrent or predisposing cause, in addition to an extemal injury, is required to produce tetanus. Of such causes, the best established are, 1st. an irritated state of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane ; (•') and. * Extract from tlio report by Mr. Arnold of post mortem appearances in the case of a man who died of idiopathic tetanus in Guy’s Hospital, Lancet, 1844, vol. ii, p. 353. “ Blood-vessels on the spinal marrow much congested ; frequent adhesions between the layers of the arachnoid from about the seventh dorsal vertebra upwards; arachnoid lining the dura mater presents a minutely granular appearance. Several plates of bone upon the free arachnoid, chiefly opposite the seventh dorsal vertebra. These plates of bone are confined entirely to the posterior surfaces.”