519 DISEASES OP THE KIDNEYS. lar clots ; and with these, portions of medullarj'^ substance are some- times intermingled. These symptoms, combined with the absence of a calculus, and the possibility perhaps of detecting a tumour with the sound, are the chief means of diagnosis. Treatment can only be palliative. SECTION VII.—OF DISEASE OP THE KIDNEYS, HEMATURIA, AND SUPPRESSION OF URINE. I. Acute Inflammation of the Kidney {Acute Nephritis) is sometimes caused by blows on the loins, or by the irritation of renal calculi, but is very rarely an idiopathic primary affection. The symp- toms are, burning pain and tenderness in the loins; colicky pains in 'the belly ; the urine scanty and high coloured, and the bladder irri- table, so that there are constant attempts at micturition ; fever and great thirst, and violent vomiting. The remedies are — cupping, leeches, and castor oil—repeated doses of calomel, opium, and antimony, with colchicum if the habit is gouty ; warm baths, or warm fomenta- tions to the loins, and barley water and other demulcent drinks. II. Chronic Disease of the Kidneys, when it comes under the surgeon’s care, is generally a consequence of long standing disease of the urethra or bladder. When the bladder has been subject to frequent distention through stricture or enlarged prostate, and its mucous membrane inflamed, the ureters are liable to become distended and converted as it were into subsidiary receptacles for the urine, so that all the violent strainings to evacuate it tell upon the kidneys; and these become diseased, partly from the mechanical irritation, partly from sympathy, partly from an extension of inflammation from the bladder, and partly through participating in that general degene- ration of the functions and structures of the body, which is sure to ensue when any one important function is long and seriously impeded. Symptoms.—A person, who has long been labouring under some chronic affection of the bladder, begins to complain of general weak- ness and languor, both bodily and mental. The sleep is unrefreshing, and the appetite impaired. There is frequent pain of a weak aching character in one or both loins ; occasionally shooting down to the testicles or groins. The urine is almost invariably albuminous; it is generally pale-coloured and opakish when passed ; sometimes it is tinged with blood, and sometimes it displays shreds or flakes of lymph, moulded probably into the shape of the ureters. As the disease pro- ceeds, it becomes yellowish and purulent, and deposits a quantity of pus after standing, the globules of which may be detected by examina- tion with the microscope. These cases are almost sure to end fatally. Sometimes the patient dies of exhaustion and obstinate vomiting ; sometimes of suppression of urine and coma ; sometimes in a sudden fit of severe shivering ; and sometimes of a rapid attack of acute inflammation. The kidneys are found after death to bo soft and dis- organised ; readily separating from their capsule, which however