ANCHYLOSIS. 271 the very same disease in the lungs or mesentery, which a more mode- rate degree might avert. Recovery without amputation is far more probable when one of the larger articulations is affected, than when the complicated joints of the tarsus or carpus are involved. Excision of the extremities of the diseased bones should be resorted to, when practicable, instead of amputation. General Diagnosis.—It may be useful to present a concise view of the differences of the three principal chronic diseases of joints, as regards their two principal symptoms—viz. pain and swelling. The pain in chronic synovitis is not very severe; it usuallyj'increases for ten or fourteen days, and then declines; and it is not immediaiely aggravated by motion, or by pressure of the articular surfaces against each other. In ulceration of the cartilage, the pain is very severe, continuous and exhausting, and increases as the disease advances, becoming greater after the occurrence of swelling; moreover, it is at- tended with sjmipathetic pain of some other part of the limb, and is always aggravated by motion. “ In articular caries in scrofulous chil- dren,” says Rrodie, “ there is not that severe pain which exhausts the powers and spirits of the patient,” as in ulceration of the cartilage; but it must be confessed, that in cases occurring to adults, there is very little difference in this respect. The sxcclling in chronic synovitis comes on in tlie course of a few days; it fluctuates freely, and alters the form of the joint. In the other two affections it does not come on till after some weeks or months, and it does not alter the shape of the joint; but as it depends on a general infiltration of the tissues around the articular extremities, it seems as if it were caused by enlargement of the bones; the skin moreover is free from redness; hence the term luhite sicelling, by which these two affections are commonlj' designated.* SECTION VI.—ANCHYLOSIS. Anchylosis, or immobility, is a frequent consequence of serious injuries and diseases of joints; therefore, whenever it is likelj- to happen, the affected joint should be placed in the position whicli will be the least inconvenient for it to preserve. Tlie elbow shoidd be placed at a right angle; the wrist straight; the hip and knee a very little bent; and the ankle at a right angle to the leg. There are three varieties of anchylosis. 1. The spwn'oMs or false anchylosis, which depends on thickening and deposits into the synovial membrane and ligaments, and rigidity of the muscles. The extensor muscles are apt, in almost all cases where a joint is diseased, to become paralysed and wasted; and the flexor muscles to fall into the state of rigid atrophy, becoming short, • “ Ulcer.-itinn m.ay bo suspcctod,” .says Mr. M.ivo. “vlien with little or no fluid in the synovial mcmljrane, there is pain of the joint, accom)>anied with acute sensibility to pressure or motion of the articular cartilages on each other."