525 GRAVEL. the urine ; and 2nd, the phosphate of lime, a white amorphous powder, generally associated with mucus. Often these substances form a thin greasy-looking iridescent film on the surface of the urine. Pathological Relations.—The red gravel often accompanies a gouty tendency, and may exist in conjunction with a highly sthenic ple- thoric condition : the oxalic, and phosphatic, on the other hand, ge- nerally indicate feeble powers of assimilation, and exhaustion of the nervous system. Any deposit may exist occasionally in small quan- tity, unnoticed; it is their constant or abundant presence which constitutes disease. When a patient is secreting the red gravel, or has, to use the vulgar phrase, a fit of the gravel, he usually complains of great pain in the loins and bladder ; frequent desire to make water; and aching of the testicles find hips. Sometimes these symptoms are attended with great feverishness; sometimes with mere languor and dys- pepsia. When oxalate of lime is abundant, the whole urinary organs are apt to suffer extremely ; with frequent micturition ; aching in the loins and bladder ; great irritation of the genital organs ; often these s3'mp- toms are combined with peculiar lassitude, fits of headache, sour perspiration, nettle-rash, extreme despondencj', and other signs of obstinate indigestion and of a disordered condition of the blood. When the phosphates are deposited, and the urine alkalescent, there is usuallj' either a low form of dyspepsia, or some disease of the mucous membrane of the bladder, or both. Treatment.—The treatment of urinary disorders has of late years been made too dependent on an imperfect chemical examination of the urine; it being the custom to give acids if the urine is alkaline, and so forth, without sufficient regard to other circumstances. The author stated in an edition of this work published in 1841, that this summarj' method of treatment was essentially erroneous, and that he had often observed the urine ammoniacal and covered with crystals of triple phosphate, when the stomach was full of acid. Subsequent experience has confirmed his ideas on this point; and he would advise his readers, when consulted in such cases, to treat t,he genertil health, and leave the urine to take care of itself. The first thing to notice, is the patient’s blood-making powers, and his habits. Because if lustj% and red-lipped, and a high liver, and troubled with lithic gravel of no long duration, he will generally be speedily relieved by full purgation; by low diet, warm baths, and liq. potass® in drachm doses thrice daily after meals. The diathesis will be kept at bay likewise by habits of early rising, by exercise enough to make the skin eliminate acid; by great temperance in meat and beer or wine; bj* freely eating fresh vegetables, and especially cabbage, water-cresses, and fruit, provided always that they cause no incon- venience to the stomach; and by occasional effervescing, saline, or alka- line draughts—such as lemonade, potass water, seltzer water; or F. 50, 60, 61,70, 72, 73, &c.