599 LIGATURE OF CAROTID ARTERY. three inches in length is made along the inner margin of the sterno- niastoid muscle. This incision should be carried^through skin, platys- ma, and superficial fascia, and should terminate about an inch above the sternum. The head should now be brought a little forwards, so as to relax the sterno-raastoid muscle, and’ the cellular tissue beneath is to be raised with forceps and divided ; but any veins that are found are to be turned aside with the handle of the scalpel, and are not to be wounded if it can be avoided. Next come the thin strong deep fascia and the omo-hyoideus muscle, to the margins of which it adheres. 11 should be pinched up slightly with the forceps, just below that muscle, and be divided by cautious touches with the knife, which should be held with its flat surface towards the artery; and this division of the fascia should be made immediately over the artery, the situation of which is to be carefully ascertained with the finger. Then about half an inch of the sheath is to be opened in the same manner, avoiding the descendens noni nerve, which ramifies upon it. It should be opened rather to the inner side of the artery, so that the jugular vein may not be interfered with. Then an aneurism needle, armed with a single ligature, is to be carried round the vessel. It is to be passed from the outer side, and to be kept close to the vessel, within its sheath. When its point appears on the inner side, the surgeon seizes the ligature with forceps, and withdraws the needle; ascertains that the nervus vagus is not included in the ligature, and then ties it tightl}' in the double knot represented at page 297. One end of the ligature may then be cut ofl" close to the knot, and the other be left hanging out of the wound, which is to be closed with plaster when bleeding has ceased. The patient must be kept at perfect rest in bed till the ligature separates. This artery may also be tied above the omo-hyoideus, by making an incision through the skin and platysma three inches in length, and terminating at the level of the cricoid cartilage. The fascia should next be divided on a director, in the same manner as the layers over a hernial sac (p. 485). The surgeon then separates the cellular tissue and veins from the sheath, and opens the sheath and passes the liga- ture in the manner described above. II. The External Carotid may if wounded require a ligature; or if many of its branches are wounded, am/ cannot be tied ; but such an operation is very rarely, if ever, practised. An incision of the same length and direction as in the two preceding operations should be made through the skin, platysma, and sheath, so as to tie the vessel near its origin, that is, at the level of tlie os hyoides, and below the part where it is crossed by the digastric muscle and nintli nerve. The Internal Carotid is sometimes wounded by gashes, stabs, or shot Irom without, or by punctures from within, as may happen when a person falls down with a tobacco-pipe in his mouth, and drives it through the back of the pharynx. In such aises, ligature of the common carotid is a very uncertain remedy, and Mr. Guthrie proposes