375 DISEASES OP THE IRIS. gr. i—ii of calomel with gr. |—h of opium at intervals of from four to eight hours. And when the mouth begins to become sore, the lymph will generally be found to break up and gradually disappear, leaving the pupil clear. The surgeon should endeavour to avail him- self of the curative, without the poisonous effects of the drug, and should recollect that violent salivation is a great evil. Small doses of hyd. c. creta, thrice daily, produce every desired effect in the hands of some surgeons. In debilitated subjects tonics may be given with the mercuiy. Turpentine in drachm doses, F. 71, has been recommended in iritis instead of mercury; but its efficacy admits of doubt. 3. The pupil should be kept well dilated by means of extract of belladonna, a thick solution of which should be painted on the eyelids during the acute stage; and a filtered solution of one scruple in an ounce of distilled water may be dropped into the eye afterwards. But the most elegant means of obtaining the effect of belladonna is to drop into the eye a solution of the sulphate of atropine^ (gr. i. ad 3! aquae distill.) Stramonium or hyoscyamus may be substituted if preferred. 4. The pain must be relieved by nightly doses of opium, and the application of poppy fomentation to the eye. In gouty iritis, calomel is only to be used in order to evacuate the bowels and amend the secretions, and it is highl3’’ injurious if given to the extent of affecting the sj'stem. But colchicum with alkalis and purgatives, or turpentine, and counter-irritants are the best remedies. Fediluvia containing mustard should be used every night. II. Synechia Posterior, adhesion of the uvea to the capsule of the lens; Synechia Anterior, adhesion of the iris to the cornea; and Atresi-a Iridis, or closure of the pupil,—three consequences of organization of lymph from protracted iritis,—may be partially re- moved by mercury if recent, but are irremedial, except by operation, if of long standing. But belladonna should always be applied ; be- cause if a verj' small portion of the pupil is bj' chance unadherent, it may be dilated so as to afford a very useful degree of vision. ill. Myosis—a preternaturaUy contracted pupil—is sometimes met with in persons accustomed to look at minute objects, and is attended with great obscurity of vision, especially in a feeble light, because the iris is unable to dilate. To give repose to the eyes, and attend to the health, are the only available indications of treatment; Mackenzie says that belladonna is hurtful. IV. Mydriasis signifies a preternatural dilatation of the pupil, which docs not contract on exposure to light. This state, as is well known, is readilj" produced by belladonna and many other narcotico- acrid poisons; it is caused also by any injury of the brain affecting the tubcrcula (juadrigemina, as in apoplexy and compression of the brain; and is an attendant of confirmed amaurosis. But sometimes it depends simply on a derangement of the nerves supplying the iris, without any diminution of the sensibility of the retina; and this form of it may also be attended with ptosis; as a further evidence of para- lysis of the third nerve. Sometimes it depends on gastric irritation ■k