371 DISEASES OF THE SCLEROTIC. increase of staphyloma, and sooner or later the eye is collapsed from the necessary extensive use of the knife. Therefore, when the staphyloma is small, J\Ir. H. Walton shaves it off, at the same time evacuating with the curette a siimll amount of vitreous humour, by which means the cut part frequently cicatrizes and no further protrusion is effected. If the volume of the eye were not a little reduced by the loss of vitreous humour, during the healing process the new material that closed the aperture would also yield and become staphylomatous. This treatment is applicable to small staphylomata, and especially those that rise suddenly, and have a small, well-defined base. If general, the staphyloma should be shaved off, for, as it is not covered by the eyelids, it is a source of constant irritation and pain. VIII. Hernia Corneas.—When the cornea is nearly or quite per- forated'bj' an ulcer, a thin, transparent vesicle is apt to protrude from the aperture, consisting of a thin lamella of the cornea ; or else of an imperfectlj' organized cicatrix protruded by the aqueous humour. It may be snipped off if large, and the place be touched with caustic ; but it is apt to be reproduced very rapidly. IX. Conical Cornea.—In this curious affection, the cornea seems to become weak in its structm'e, so as to bulge out under an increased secretion of aqueous humour. It graduallj' becomes thin and exceed- ing convex, but remains transparent, and it often gives a peculiarlj^ brilliant appearance to the eye. As it increases, it causes almost total deprivation of vision, which, however, can be partially remedied by looking through a minute aperture in a piece of blackened wood. It is generall}' considered incurable, but Hr. Pickford of Brighton has published cases relieved by a long course of emetics and purgatives.* Tonics and counter-irritants may also be of service. Vide Artificial Pupil, p. 37G. Caution.— If the acetate of lead is used as a collyrium when there i. i is any abrasion of the conjunctiva or cornea, a white precipitate is , fonned, which is liable to become fixed in the cicatrix as a dense ' white spot. The film may, however, sometimes be removed by a needle. The nitrate of silver, if applied too long, is apt to turn the conjunctiva to a deep olive hue. SECTION VI.—DISEASES OF THE SCLEROTIC. I. Acute Inflasiaiation of the Sclerotic is commonly called Rheumatic Ophthalaiia ; because the stimcture affected is similar to that which is attacked by rheumatism ; but it is not certain that the kind of infiammation present is always the genuine rheumatic. Symptoms.—It is known by redness of the sclerotic,—no great in- tolerance of light,—severe stinging pain of the eye, and aching of the bones around, which is greatly aggravated at night,—and fever. It may be caused by cold, and sometimes, like other rheumatic inflam- * Pickford on Conical Cornea. Dublin Journal Med. Sc., Jan. 1844.