CONTUSION AND KCCHYMOSIS. 118 which speedily becomes black. On the third day it is violet, and the margin which was at first well defined, is found to be faint and dif- fused. About the fifth or sixth day the colour becomes green; on the seventh or eighth, yellow; and it gradually disappears about the tenth or twelfth—sooner or later, according to the vigour of the individual and the quantity of blood effused. If an ecchymosis be formed in the cellular tissue without injury of the skin, no discoloration may appear for twenty-four hours ;—and if it be more deeply seated among the muscles, it will not affect the skin for some days, and may then appear at a part quite remote from the seat of injury;—and, in this last case, will usually be in the form of irregular yellow spots, marbled with green and blue.* Causes.—Ecchymosis may be produced by many other causes besides contusions. It is a symptom of certain diseases, as scurvy, purpura, and the last stage of fevers. It may be a consequence of oblique wounds, which do not pennit the blood to flow freely out;— of spasms, and other violent contractions of the muscles ;—it may also be caused by suction (as after leech-bites), especially in a part where the skin is thin. It may further be simulated by the appli- cation of colouring matters to the skin. Lastly, ecchymosis produced during life may require to be distinguished from various appearances arising after death, D1.A.GNOSIS.—Ecchymosis produced by suction may be distinguished from that which is the result of injury, by being generally in the form of small round spots, and situated on the inside of the arms, or female breasts ; and the surgeon required to decide on the cause of such marks should consider whether they correspond in their appearance to the date which is assigned to them. Artificial discoloration of the skin may be distinguished from ecchy- mosis by its being generally in round or irregular spots, fringed at the edges.f Ecchymosis produced during life may be distinguished from the livid discoloration of incipient putrefaction^ or that which is caused by the gravitation of blood in a dead body, by noticing that in the first case, blood is effused into the cellular tissue, and is incorporated with the cutis, which is thickened ; whereas in the latter two cases, the blackness will be confined to the surface of the cutis, and if blood is effused into the cellular tissue, it will be only at some depending part, and will be fluid, and not coagulated.^ Treatment.—The indications are, (1) to check extravasation of blood ; (2) to prevent inflammation ; (3) and afterwards to produce absorption of the effused fluids and restore the use of the parts. If the patient be robust, and the bruise seated on the head or trunk, and the swelling increase rapidly, and become very tense, it • Dovorgie, M6decine Lfgale. Paris, 1836, tomedi. p. 57. t Fallot do la Simulation et de la Dissimulation des Maladies. Bruxelles. 1836, p. 67. t Bock’s Medical Jurisprudence.