FRACTUEES OF THE LEG. 258 jstr.T^ht position in almost all cases of fracture of the lower extremity. /Before its application, it must be made to correspond to the length of the sound limb, and must be well padded. (.8.) By the very convenient side-splint of Mr. Fergusson’s, de- scribed in a preceding page. This may be applied either on the inner or outer side, according to circumstances. (4.) By junks. This very simple but efficient contrivance con- sists of a piece of old sheeting, with a bundle of reeds rolled together from either end. But it is more easy to comprehend it from seeing it once than from a page of description.* (5.) By the starched bandage.—In simple cases of fracture of the leg, the patient may be permitted to leave his bed at the end of three weeks, with the fracture supported by the starched .apparatus. First of all, a dry bandage should be applied from the foot h.alf way up the thigh ; then a piece of stout pasteboard, softened in boiling water, should be accurately .adapted to the limb on each side ; and the outer piece should be made to overlap the heel. In the next phace, the mellows about the ankle and tendo Achillis should be well padded jwith tow ; and then four or five layers of roller must be put on, jthoroughly imbued with mucilage of gum or starch ; and lastly a dry poller. When this has become dry (which will be in a d.ay or two), ’ the patient may get up, and move to his chair or sofa, but the foot I must be suspended from his neck by a sling ; and he must be parti- cularly cautioned not to attempt to move it by its own efforts. For FRACTURE OF THE HEAD OF THE TIBIA INTO THE KNEE- JOINT the treatment is the same as for fracture of the condyles of the femur. The limb should be placed straight, so that the end of the femur may act as a splint, and keep the broken parts in their places. The whole limb should be raised, so as to relax the extensor muscles of the knee ; and this should be done in all cases of fracture of the upper end of the tibia (for which, consequently, the treatment by splints, with the knee bent, is inapplicable). Pasteboard splints and starched band.ages should be applied, to keep the joint motionless; but they should not cover the front of the knee so as to interfere with the leeches, fomentations, &c., that will be necessary to reduce the inflammation. Passive motion should be commenced in five weeks. Fracture of the lower end of the fibula, about three inches .above the ankle-joint, is not an uncommon accident, and may be c.aused by twists of the foot, or by jumping on uneven ground. Fracture of the internal malleolus may occur in the s.ame way ; .and one or the other of these fractures commonly accompanies dislocation of the ankle. Treatment.—They may be treated either with the bandage and two splints, or with Macintyre’s splint, or with Fergusson’s side-splint, or • An excellent and simple m.acliine for suspending a fractured leg has been devised l>y Mr. S.alter, House-surgeon of King’s College Hospital, and is made by Matthews of Portugal-street, Lincoln’s-inn.