491 H.EHORRHOIDSt I laudanum, will relieve the paroxj'sm. In more obstinate cases, a I bougie or mould candle should be passed daily—alteratives and ene- I mata of warm water should also be administered daily; but if they I fail, the sphincter must be divided and made to heal by granulation. Division of the Sphincter is easily performed by introducing the fore- I finger into the anus, and a straight, narrow, blunt-pointed bistoury by its side—and then making an incision of sufficient extent towards the t tuberosity of the ischium. IV, Hj3morrhoids, or Piles, are small tumours situated near the anus. ratliology.—They commence as varicose enlargements of some of the hannorrhoidal veins ; the irritation of which causes various morbid I changes in the mucous membrane and cellular tissue adjoining. Some- times there is a little varicose knot with the cellular tissue around thick- ened. Sometimes the blood in a dilated vein coagulates, forming a solid tumour with the thickened cellular tissue around. Again, if piles are situated within the rectum, the mucous membrane covering them is liable to become excessively vascular and sensitive, resembling an erectile tissue. They are divided into two species, the internal and external, according as they are situated within the rectum, or external to the anus. Internal Piles are generally firm tumours, varying in size from that of a pea to that of a walnut, of a pale or reddish-brown colour when indolent, but dark or bright red when congested or inflamed. They generally cause great inconvenience by protruding at each motion, and the hypertrophied vascular mucous membrane covering them is exceed- ing liable to bleed from the straining and pressure. External Piles may be met with, 1. in the form of round hard tumours just at the margin of the anus, and covered half with skin and half with mucous membrane; or 2. of oblong ridges of skin ex- ternal to the sphincter. These are commonly called mariscce, or blind piles, because they do not bleed. Symptoms.—Piles may be met with in two states—indolent or inflamed. When indolent, they merely produce the inconveniences that necessarilj' result from their bulk and situation, and pain from getting within the gripe of the sphincter. When injlamcd, they occasion the following symptoms; Pain, heat, itching, fulness, and tension about the anus—a sensation as if there were a foreign body in • Piles after excision, showing tlie dilated veins, of which they are in a great measure composed.