556 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. discharged during lactation, and, after the child is weaned, it will dry up and heal. In a few very rare instances there has been formed a VI. Lacteal Calculus.—The fluid part of the milk in an ob- structed lacteal duct having been absorbed, whilst its more solid and earthy ingredients remained, and concreted into a calculous mass. VII. Abscess in the Lacteal Tubes.—An elderly woman ap plied to the author some time since with a painful, elongated swelling, stretching from the nipple to the circumference of the breast. It evi- dently consisted of a lacteal tube which had suppurated; and, after being punctured and yielding half an ounce of pus, it soon got weU. ^ VIII. Sore Nipples.—E.xcoriations and chaps about the nipples I not only cause great pain and inconvenience in suckling, but are a ' frequent cause of acute inflammation of tlie breast. A solution of gr. V. of tannin in an ounce of water ; or a touch with lunar caustic, if tliere is a very deep irritable fissure, are the best remedies; lotions f of borax, alum, or sulphate of zinc, and arrow root and cream, are h also common applications. The nipple should be defended from the clothes, and from the child’s mouth, by a metallic shield. Women who are subject to this affection, should frequently wash the parts with salt and water, or solution of alum, during pregnancy; or should apply every night a liniment composed of equal parts of rectified spirit and olive oil. IX. The True Hydatid Dlsea.se consists in the development of a parent cyst, containing other secondary cysts, consisting of parasitic animalcules {echinococcus kominis) floating in a clear limpid water. It presents a globqlar oval hard tumour, attended with more or less pain, but no derangement of the general health. As it increases, fluctuation becomes perceptible, and the skin becomes distended and ulcerates. The cyst may be punctured, and allowed to suppurate, or may be excised, which is preferable.* X. Cystic and Serocystic Diseases.—These diseases, which were particularly described by Sir B. C. Brodie,+ have lately been most satisfactorily unravelled .and expl.aincd by Mr. Birkett, in his published J.acksonian Prize Essay, on Diseases of the Breast. It appears that cysts may be originally developed in two modes— viz., 1st, by a dilatation of portions of the tubular and secretory apparatus of the gland ; 2ndly, by errors of nutrition in its fibro- cellular envelope. 1. The cysts produced by a dilatation of the tubules or acini of the gland, may be one, or many; may be situated on the surface, in the centre of, or behind the organ; and may be of various sizes, though rarely larger th.an a filbert; they have .an investment of fibrous membrane, are lined with epithelium, and enclose a yellow, reddish, or green mucous fluid, containing milky and fatty globules and epithelium, which last accumul.ates after a time, and renders the contents of the cyst more solid. Serous fluid sometimes exudes from the nipple. • Vide Birkett on Diseases of the Breast, Lend. 1850. t In a lecture delivered at St. George's Hospital, in January 1840.