TYPHOID FEVER. 13 death. (2.) If recovery occurs, the surest sign of amendment is a diminution of the frequency and increase of the firmness of the pulse, with sound sleep; the patient being sensible and composed, the eyes brighter, the tongue cleaning, and above all, suppuration returning, if there be a wound. Causes.—Typhoid fever may be caused (1) by some circumstance producing immediate and direct depression of vital power; such as traumatic gangrene; a wound poisoned during dissection; ora severe injury or operation suffered bj'an habitual drunkard. (2.) It may be caused by some disease of long standing, which has completely e.x- hausted the constitutional powers—as profuse suppuration with hectic. And both these conditions may be, and frequently are, combined with a third; namely, (3) contamination of the blood by putrid or other poisonous matter. Thus it is siu'e to supervene if putrid pus be con- fined in an abscess, or if putrid urine escape into the cellular tissue of the perinteum. M. Bonnet has proved incontestably that the hydro- sulphate of ammonia, the product of putrefaction, is absorbed in these cases, and is one cause of the typhoid fever.* Prognosis.—The prognosis will, of course, be always doubtful; but there may be a chance of recover}’’, if the cause is of recent exist- ence, and admits of removal by operation or otherwise ; whilst there can be scarce!}’ any, if the constitution has been exhausted by its long continuance. Thus, if this fever comes on in erysipelas or small-pox, diseases of no long continuance, the constitution may rally ;—or if it is caused by a recent injury, or by extravasation of urine, it may be removed, perhaps, by an amputation, or incisions in the perinceum ; but it will scarcely be cured if caused by chronic abscess or disease of a joint, and preceded by hectic. And thus, if the hectic has been suf- fered to pass into the typhoid state, the season of amputation and hope of recovery are also past. “ It is,” says Hunter, “ the more incurable, as it is more connected with the past than with the present.” Treatjif.nt.— The indications are to remove the cause; allay irritation, and support the strength. If the removal of the cause by operation is likely to be successful, upon the principles just laid down, it should be done without delay; and, even if not, it may be better to try a doubtful remedy than none at all. As for the general treatment, opium, or some of its preparations, should be given in small doses, repeated frequently, or in a large dose at once, according to the judgment of the practitioner, for the relief of restlessness and delirium. The strength must be supported by qui- nine and tonics; by wine, and other stimulants, F. 1, 26, 27, &c., and by moderate quantities of broth, beef-tea, arrowroot, &c., if the patient will take them. Hiccough is best relieved by a tea-spoonful of sp. aether, c.; and flatulence by an enema of turpentine, or confection of rue. The catheter should bo used if the patient cannot pass his water: a point that should always be inquired into. * See Chronic Abscess.