553 CHAPTER XXIII. OF THE DISEASES OF THE BREAST. I. Hypertrophy of the breasts to an enormous size, is very common during the earlier months of pregnancy in pletlioric women. Aperients will assist time in effecting a perfect cure. In unmarried women the same thing sometimes happens; the breasts becoming so large as to be a perfect burden. If there are any remedies they are the preparations of iodine, and the various means for ensuring the healthy action of the womb. II. Acute Inflammation of the breast {acute mastitis*) is known by great swelling, tenderness and pain, and fever. These symptoms are generally soon succeeded by fonnatioii of matter. The abscess, if confined by the fascial envelope of the organ, is very slow to point. This affection maj' occur at any period during lactation. It may be caused by cold—by too stimulating a diet—by neglect in suckling—by irritation propagated from the nipples, and by a loaded state of the bowels and defective biliary and urinary secretion. The suddenness with which it may come on is sometimes surprising. A woman may get up apparently well; may be seized with shivering, pain, swelling of the breast, violent fever, and delirium; and these symptoms as suddenly subside when calomel and black draughts have cleared away some most offensive motions. Treatment.—Purgatives, leeches, and fomentations or poultices after them; the milk should be drawn off, if it can be done without very much pain, and Dover’s powder should be given to allay restlessness. The arm should be kept quiet in a sling. As soon as fluctuation is well established, a puncture should be made. And then efficient support shoidd be given by bandages, or by cross strips of soap or other mild adhesive plaster, so as to take off the weight of the organ, compress the distended vessels, and prevent all bagging of matter. Likewise if after leeches and purgatives, the tenderness and pain diminish, so that there seems a chance of resolution without suppura- tion, similar support is most useful. See the remarks on Acute Abscess, p. 5fj. One of the two following cuts shows the manner in which the breast may be supported by a roller; the othei' shows how strips of plaster may be applied for the same purpose. Of course, a sufficient number of strips should be applied to cover the entire breast, except the nipple, or at least the lower half of the organ. III. Chronic Inflammation generally attacks one or two lobules only, causing them to swell into firm tumours, which, on examination with thqJiMer,^are felt to be composed of numerous little granules. * We must mako n pas.sing protest against such a word as mazoilis, with wliich a promising surgeon lias burdened tlio nomenclature of liis art. 1