35 acute inflammation. densely crowded capillaries. “ All round this focus the vessels are as full, or nearly as full, as they are in it ; but the blood moves in them with a quicker stream, or may pulsate in the arteries, and oscillate in the veins ; yet further from this focus, the blood moves rapidly through turgid but less full vessels.” The dusky colour in the centre of a phlegmon ; the throbbing; the red blush around ; the gush of blood on cutting into it, are thus fully explained. After this, the liquor sanguinis begins to be exuded into the inter- stices of the tissues. Or perhaps the blood-vessels are ruptured and a small quantity of blood becomes extravasated {hccmorrhaye). If the inflammation continue, the tissues become completely broken down and disorganized at the points where the inflammation is most intense, and pus is there formed out of the exuded lymph {suppura- tion). If the inflammation increases in severit}', the stagnant blood coagulates in the vessels, the tissue becomes soft and flaccid, and in fact mortifies.* CHAPTER IV. OF ACUTE INFLAAIMATION. Definition.—Acute inflammation is that which is sudden in its origin, violent in its action, and rapid in terminating; and it is at- tended with fever, either if it be considerable in its extent, or if it affect parts of great sensibility and importance, or if the constitution be highly irritable. Theat.ment.—In the treatment of acute inflammation and its at- tendant fever, the indications are, to reduce the increased action of the heart and arteries, and diminish the quantity of arterial blood sent to the inflamed part; to allay pain, nervous excitement, and disturb- ance of vitality in the inflamed part; to purify the blood, and to remove all causes. The chief means are, evacuants, sedatives, and narcotics. (1.) Blood-letting, Objects of.—The first and most important measure is general blood-letting ;—which, if carried far enough, in- duces a state of insensibility and suspended circulation, to which the * Vide Cullen’s First I.ine.s, book 11. chap. 1. sect. 2 ; Tlioinp.son’s Lectures on Inflaniniation ; Gcndrin, Histoire Anatonii(|ue des Inllamniatious ; Andral, Anatomic Pathologique ; Wilson Philip’s Treatise on Fevers, and Experimental Inquin- into the Laws of the Vital Functions, 3rd ed.; Mayo’s Outlines of Physiology, 5th ed.; the Papers by Mr. J. W. Earle in Loud. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi.; Gulliver Phil. Mag., Sept. 1838 ; Kaltenbrunner de Statu Vasorum et Sanguinis in Inli.ammatione, 1826; the Lecture on Inllammation in Grave.s’s Clinical Medicine; T. Wharton .Tones in Hrit. and For. Med. Uev., Oct. 1842; J. Hughes Bennett, Lend, and Edin. Jour. Med. Sc., Dec. 1842; Treatise on Inflammation, Edinburgh, 1844; and Paget’s Lectures, Med. G;u., June 1850.