TIIEI’HINING. 339 striction, or of coldness in the scalp, or of creeping in the limbs, with numbness, are the most frequent. But these are succeeded by sudden convulsions, or palsy, or coma, from which the patient soon dies, althougli he may perhaps recover for a time. Treatment.—Blisters, issues, setons, or the tartar emetic ointment; mercurial alteratives; purgatives; occasional depletion; shower-baths; the most regular diet, and avoidance of every kind of excitement of mind or bodj', are the remedies in case mischief is expected. After the occurrence of palsy, or other decided symptoms, blisters ; leeches, if the pulse is strong enough, and there is pain or heat in the head ; purgatives, and enemata. But if the patient is low and feeble, he must be supported by mild nutriment and stimulants of the diffusive kind, especially the preparations of ammonia. SECTION VIII.—TREI’IIINING AND PARACENTESIS. I. Trephining.—The apparatus requisite for this operation com- prises a large and small trephine, a straight and curved lley’s saw, and an elevator—besides a good scalpel, and the other instruments which eveiy surgeon is supposed to have in his pocket. There are four cases which may require this operation. 1. Fracture of the skull with depression of bone. 2. Extravasation of blood under the skuU. 3. Suppuration of the dura-mater. And lastlj’, occasional cases of epilepsy arising from the irritation of a diseased spot of the skull. For the first and last cases, the trephine should be quite small, so as not to sacrifice more bone than is absolutely necessary ; but when the operation is intended for the relief of suppuration or extravasation, the trephine should be large, so as to afford a free exit to the fluid. Supposing it to be a case of depressed fracture. In the first place, the bone, if not already laid bare by a scalp wound, must be exposed b}' an incision in the shape of a V, or T. Then perhaps some loose fragment may be picked out, or a projecting point may be sawn off with a Iley's saw, that will enable the surgeon to raise the depressed portion with the elevator. But if this cannot be done, a circular piece, consisting of the edge of the depressed bone, and of the adjoin- ing bone under which it has been wedged, must be removed. The pericranium being shaved off from the part which is to be perforated, the surgeon apjilies the trephine, and works it with an alternate pro- nation and supination of the wrist, and when it has made a circular groove deep enough to work in steadily, he takes care to withdraw the centre pin. He saws on steadilj' and cautiously, pausing fre- quently and examining the groove with a probe, to ascei'tain whether it has reached the dura mater, and when it has, he introduces the elevator to raise the circular piece of bone. He must be particularly careful to fix the centre pin, and the greater part of the circumference of the instrument on linn bone,— and b)’’ no means to press heavily, whilst sawing, on any piece that is loose or yielding. The saw will