LONG AND SnORT SIGHT. 393 has followed an injiuy of the head, or fit of apoplexy, or syphilis, or if there be reason to suspect a tumour in the brain, or in the course of the optic nerve,—a moderate course of mercury, or of iodide of potassium with alkalis and sarsaparilla, and with counter-irritants, should be tried, and sometimes may effect a cure. Amaurosis arising from a tumour within the brain will usually be accompanied by S3'mptoms that will sufficiently point out the hopeless nature of the disease. There is an interesting case of this kind related by IMr. Browne of Belfast in the “ Dublin Journal of INIedical Science ” for May 1849, in which there was increasing amaurosis, with complete pa- ralysis of the motores oculi nerves ; after death a tumour, nearly three drachms in weight, was found in one of the crura cerebri. For other cases of amaurosis arising from organic disease, especially if there be fixed pain in the head, palsy, or epilepsy, or idiocy, the best thing that the surgeon can do will be to prevent congestion in the head by occasional depletion, and counter-iri’itation; to maintain the secre- tions of the liver and bowels; to keep up the strength by a nutritious but not stimulating diet, and to guard the patient from every excess or exertion, mental or bodilj', that is capable of accelerating the cerebral circulation. SECTION XV.—OF SHORT AND LONG SIGHT. V !•—Short Sight or Myopia.—This affection appears to depend either on an increase in the refractive power of the eye, or else on an elongation of its axis, so that in either case the rays of light are brought to a focus before they reach the retina. The cornea is gene- rally exceedingly convex, and the secretion of aqueous humour abun- dant; and the crystalline lens is also probably too convex, all of which circumstances would cause the refractive power of the eye to be in- creased. It is caused by too close attention to study and by habits of looking at minute objects, as in reading, learning music, and the like ; by which the ciliary muscle is brought constantly into play in the adaptation of vision, and thus, probably, the curves both of the cornea and crystalline lens become altered, and their surfaces become sections of smaller spheres than normal; hence the increase in the refractive powers of the eye. It is a popular error to imagine that the sight improves as the individual grows older. Trcalnienl.—The eyes should be exercised and accustomed to look at distant objects. When childi'en display any tendency to short sight, their studies should be abridged, and they should have plenty of exercise in the open air. Shooting, archery, cricket, and field sports in general, are highly beneficial. It is worth while also to try a plan of treatment invented by Berthold, and consisting in the use of an instrument which has received the sesquipedalian title of myopadior- i/wticon. This is really nothing more than a support for the chin, to prevent the patient stooping forwards, whilst he reads from a book with large print. And the book is every day to be placed at a slightly