92 SCROFULA. source of inflammation, is sure to terminate in gangrene. A similar kind of gangrene sometimes attacks the skin of the leg. This affection mostly happens to old persons of the better class, es- pecially if they have been great eaters. They are generally found to have lost their hair and teeth, and their face and hands betray a lan- guid circulation. It mostly attacks men. Mr. James,* however, has seen it in a woman of forty-two who had disease of the he.art; and Brodie in a man of thirty-six. Treatment.—It seems agreed now, that this disease should be treated on a cooling, and not on a stimulating plan. The patient should be kept in bed; the bowels should be opened; the diet be restricted to fish, broth, milk, and farinaceous substances, and Dover’s powder be given at bedtime, if required, to allay pain. Should the health give way the diet must be made more generous. The foot may be wrapped in lint dipped in lukewann water, and covered with oiled silk. Brodie recommends a piece of cahamine dressing to be laid ,.on the part, and the whole foot and limb to be loosely wrapped in repeated folds of cotton wool, and afterwards sewed up in a silk handkerchief. If there is much discharge this may be changed every second day; if not, it may remain for a week. Amputation is inad- missible.+ M'hite Gangrene of the Skin.—In this curious affection, a circular portion of the skin, generally of the arm, becomes painful, and suddenly mortifies; becoming hard, white, and dry, and showing the red streaks of the vessels with the blood dried up in them. It some- times spreads by the gangrene of a circle of the surrounding skin. The cause is quite unknown, and the treatment must depend on the cir- cumstances of the case. The possibility that the disease may be caused by the application of some strong acid, for purposes of impos- ture, should be borne in mind. CHAPTER XIII. OF SCROFULA. Syn.— Struma, King's Evil. ^ Definition.—Scrofula is a state of constitutional debility, with a tendency to indolent inflammatorj' and ulcerative diseases, and to the deposit of a substance called tubercle, in various tissues and organs. * Jaiiio.? on Inflammation, pp. 445 and 552. t Vide Sir H. Ilrodie's Lectures on Mortification, Med. Gaz. vol. xxwi., and Mayo’s Patlioiogy, p. 231 ; Sjaue’s Contributions to the Pathoiogy and Practice of Surgery, Edin. 1848, p.'5.