416 NASAL POLYPUS, upright posture, cold applied to the head, and a piece of cold metal to the back, with a draught of any cold liquid, and compression of the nostril do not stop it, the patient may snuff up powdered gum, or gall- nuts, or powdered ma- tico; and, these fail- ing, the nostril must be gently plugged with lint. In very urgent cases, the posterior orifice of the nostril must be plugged also. This is easilj' done by passing a bougie, with a long piece of silk fastened to its end, through the nostril into the pharynx. The end of the silk in the pha- rjmx is then brought through the mouth with a pair of forceps, and a piece of soft sponge, less than ail inch in diame- ter, is tied to it. Then by pulling the silk back through the nose, the sponge is drawn into the posterior opening of the nostril. The plugs or coagula, in severe cases, should not be disturbed for three days. Nitre, and other salines ; or pills of plumbi acet., with draughts containing vinegar, F. 75, may be given with advantage in inflammatory cases ; and the sulphuric or gallic acids, iron, alum, quinine, small doses of turpentine (ll\ xv.), and the ergot of rye, in those of atony and debilitj% III. Nas.-vl Polypus.—There are four varieties of this affection. 1. The common gelatinous polypus is a tumour of the consistence of jelly, pear-shaped, j^ellowish, slightly streaked with blood-vessels, attached by a narrow neck to the mucous membrane, especially that on the turbinated bones, and apparently consisting of organized lymph. The patient has a constant feeling of stuffing and cold in the head, which is increased in damp weather. If he force his breath strongly through the affected nostril, whilst he closes the other, the polypus may be brought into view. There are yeiy often more than one of these tumours, and they arc verj' liable to return when re- moved. If polypus be permitted to remain, it continually increases in size, blocks up the nostril, displaces the septum, and obstructs the other nostril, causes prodigious deformity of the cheek, prevents the passage of the tears, and may even cause death by pressure on the brain.