58 ACUTE ABSCESS. explanation that can he offered, although not quite a satisfactory one, is, that the pus, as it increases in quantity, advances towards the skin, because in that direction it is opposed by the least pressure. Causes.—Acute abscess is mostly idiopathic, that is, depends on a disordered condition of the blood, and is a frequent sequel of fevers; —it may, however, be caused by blows, ecchyinoses, or by foreign bodies introduced into the skin or flesh. Treatment.—In a case of idiopathic abscess the indication always is to remove, if possible, the morbid state of constitution on which it depends, and to hasten the process of suppuration by warm poultices. In abscesses arising from local injury, all exciting causes, such as thorns, splinters, &c., should be removed, and inflammation be com- bated at first by leeches; but, as soon as suppuration seems inevitable, poultices should be applied. Poultices relax the skin, promote perspiration, soothe pain, encou_- rage the formation of pus, and expedite its progress to the surface. Thej^ should be large, soft, and light, and may be made of bread and water, or linseed meal, or of camomile flowers boiled till they are soft, or of bran sewed up in a linen bag, which may be dipped into boiling water as often as it becomes cold, F. 152, &c. The warm-water dressing,—that is, a piece of soft lint or folded linen dipped in warm water, and covered with oiled silk to prevent evaporation, and the spongio piline are good substitutes for poultices in many cases, especially for irritable sores; but when there is much pain they are not so soothing as the large soft warm mass of a well- made poultice. Respecting the opening of abscesses, it may be laid down as a gene- ral rule, that if they point and become pyramidal, jvithout enlarging in circumference, they 7>iag be left to burst of themselves; but that if thej' enlarge in breadth and circumference, without tending to the sur- face, they should be opened. In the following six eases, however, the surgeon’s aid is imperatively demanded ; 1. When matter forms beneath fasciae and other dense ligamentous textures, such as the sheaths of tendons, or under the thick cuticle of the fingers. Because, as these are absorbed or softened with the ut- most difficulty, the pus, instead of coming to the surface, will burrow amongst muscles and tendons, extending the abscess to great distances; —producing extreme pain and constitutional disturbance, by its ten- sion of the fasciae which cover it, and pressure on the parts beneath,— endangering extensive sloughing, and impairing the future motions of the part. Hence, as a general rule, all abscesses beneath fascias, or among tendons, or under the thick cuticle of the fingers, should be freely opened, as soon as the existence of matter is suspected. 2. ^\’hen abscess is caused by the extravasation of urine, or other irritant fluids; or when it contains an unhealthy matter, which might dift'usc itself and spread the disease; as in carbuncle. 3. When an .abscess is formed in loose cellular tissue (as around the anus), which would readily admit of great distension and enlarge-