HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 80 appear to arise from neglected local irritation, without any specific i virus; as from acrid discharges and defective cleanliness, Mr. Law- J rence mentions the case of a young woman who had suffered from j severe small-pox, and from diarrhoea after it. The continual moisture from the rectum, with a mucous discharge from the vagina, irritated ^ ■ and inflamed the skin of the nates, and caused a large sloughing phagedrenic excavation on both sides. Symptoms.—“ It usually commences as a highly irritable and painful .m boil, surrounded by a halo of dusky red inflammation, and much ele- vated; the patient also in general having mucous discharges from the ] vagina, and a diffused redness of integument in the vicinity of the pu- | denda.” There are severe darting and stinging pains, which are at first intermittent, but gradually establish themselves as a constant symptom, with occasional exacerbations. When the pustule is rup- tured, the exposed surface of the ulcer displays a stratum of adherent straw-coloured flocculi, mottled with darker points of reddish bro\vn and gi'ey. The sore thus formed soon enlarges in breadth and depth; —the edges become everted, and attended with a circumscribed thick- ening, which is surrounded by dusky inflammation and diffused pufiy swelling. The surface is composed of grey or ash-coloured sloughs, which may become brown, or resemble coagula of blood. The dis- charge is reddish-brown, and peculiarlj^ foetid, and there is occasionally severe haemorrhage. Meanwhile the agonizing pain, the haemorrhage, and the absorption of putrid matters, soon induce severe irritative I fever,—ushered in by loss of sleep, anxietj^, restlessness, and thirst; | which, with an exhausting diarrhoea, produce death in about three weeks; and, as delirium is rare, the patient retains a miserable consci- ousness of severe suffering till the end. This disease is highly conta- gious, but it appears to be a local disease, and both the constitutional and local symptoms may be removed by measures which destroy the ] acrid secretions of the ulcer.* Hospital Gangrene is the name given to this affection when | occurring in military and naval practice. It is'engendered by crowd- ing together a number of sick and wounded men ; and by inattention to cleanliness and ventilation. It frequently is a concomitant of dysentery or typhus, originating in the same sources. It maj' affect any kind of wound, or even a mere bruise. , Propagation.—This disease, when once generated, may either spread j by contagion ; that is, bj’- the contact of its morbid secretions ;—or by j infection ; that is, through the medium of its vapour or effluvium. It ' may, although rarely, occur sporadically ; that is, may be induced in isolated cases by improper and irritating local and constitutional treat- ment of the wounded. Symptoms.—According to Mr. Blackadder, it begins in the form of a livid vesicle at the edge of a wound or sore, accompanied with an * Welbank, Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xi.; Lawrence, Lectures in Med. Gaz. | vol. V.