128 TREATMENT OF GEN-SnOT WOUNDS. arrested, a piece of lint should be applied and secured bj' two or three cj’oss strips of plaster. Tremor and mental confusion may be allayed by a mouthful of wine or spirits, and bj^ a few consolatory words from the surgeon;—or, if severe, by an opiate. ^^Tlen they have subsided, a compress, wetted with cold water, will be the only other application needed If the patient can be kept at rest in bed, all bandages, at this stage, will be unnecessary and injurious. In military practice, one or two turns of a roller may be necessarj”^ to keep on the dressings, but they should not be applied with any degree of tightness;—and, as a general rule, their application on the field of battle should be as limited as possible, lest there be a deficiencj' of them in the later stages of treatment, when thej^ can scarcely be dispensed with. These primary dressings need not be removed for the first three or four days; and if they have become dry and stiff, they should be well moistened with warm water previously to their removal. During the succeeding inflammatory stage, there is the choice of hot or cold appli- cations, each of which has its advocates. Mr. Guthrie greatly prefers the use of cold water;—but if it make the patient feel chilly or un- comfortable, or if it augment stiffness and pain, warm poultices, or the water-dressing should be substituted. But it is found that the too frequent use of poultices weakens parts, and renders them incapable of the necessary restorative actions; whilst they too often serve as a cloak for negligence, and prevent the adoption of more active mea- sures;—in fact, the experienced military surgeon just quoted considers a poultice applied to a compound fracture, or wounded joint, as the sure precursor of amputation. When suppuration is well established, the cure is to be completed b}' mild stimulating lotions and bandages. Particular care must be taken to prevent sinuses, bj' pressing out all stagnant matter, and preventing its accumulation by compresses; or by free openings, if requisite, to ensure its discharge. Gentle friction and passive motion are the best means for preventing or remo^^ng subsequent stiffness. The constiiutmial treatment must be antiphlo- gistic. If inflammation be slight, purging, low diet, and rest, ma}’ suffice; but if it be severe, and the patient robust, bleeding may be employed freely.* A combination of sulphate of magnesia and tartar emetic, F. 40, is a most convenient form for the military surgeon. Leeches may be applied to allay inflammation. Opiates should be given at bed-time, if there be much spasmodic twitching and pain. Superficial wounds, made by musket or cannon-balls, are to be treated in the same way. It must be recollected that cold lotions are never to be extensively applied to the trunk. Dilatation or Debridement.—The same observations arc to be made concerning the dilatation of gun-shot, as of punctured wounds. + A man is not to have his skin gashed merely because he has been shot. * Soldiers, from their generous diet, active exercise, and regular discipline, boar depletions of every kind much better than rustic labourei-s or mechanics, although, perhaps, the latter may bo more ruddy and healthful in appearance. t Yet we read of the orifices of these wounds being scored in a radiated H