DIAGNOSIS OF CnANCRE. 182 (h) iSlouffJihig p}taffcdeB7ia affecting chanciea requires no observations on its symptoms distinct from those made at page 78 etsnrj. Simple or sloughing phagedmna may affect chancres or open buboes for two reasons. 1st, if the constitution be irritable and broken down by debauchery, night watching, e.xposure to cold and damp, or by the profuse administration of mercury, or by confinement in the foul pestiferous air of an hospital. Hence it is liable to occur to soldiers, sailors, prostitutes, and bakers;—the last-named class of in- dividuals being obliged to work in the night. The serpiginous variety i.s, as Mr. Acton observes, extremely apt to affect “ scrofulous indivi- duals, or old men who have led a dissipated life; or men subject to the diseases of hot climates, and persons with skin diseases and con- stitutional complaints, whose health has been ruined by several courses of mercury.” 2ndly, They may probably be produced by some pe- culiar acrimony of the venereal virus. There is reason for believing that intercourse between foreigners gives rise to a very destructive kind of poison. The venereal secretions of the Portuguese women appear to have been horribly deleterious to the British soldiers during the Peninsular war, who gave the expressive name of 77/e IJlack Lion to the sloughing sores that resulted from connexion with them.* (c) Chancres may be affected with simple acute injlammaiion leading to gangrene, from local irritation, such as horse exercise, and excess in stimulating liquors. Chancre in the Urethra.—Ricord has proved satisfactorily that this is the cause of the secondarj' syphilitic symptoms which were formcrlj^ attributed to gonorrhoea. The existence of chancre in the urethra may be suspected, if in a case of gonorrluea tbe discharge is very capricious, sometimes thin, scant3', and blood}-, sometimes thick and profuse; and if there is one painful indurated spot. But it can only be proved, either by the ulcer being visible at the orifice, or by inoculation with the matter. Syphilitic Ulcers in the FeJiale require no distinct observa- tions. They do not usually cause so much distress as in the male, but they are very slow in healing, especially if interfered with by the urine. When situated high in the vagina, they may cause no symptoms at all, except perhaps a mucous discharge, and can be detected only by the speculum. SECTION IV.—OF THE AFFECTIONS THAT MAY BE MISTAKEN FOR CHANCRE. The ordinary means of distinguishing a syphilitic ulcer are, that it is seated on the genitals ; that it has followed a suspicious connexion ; that it is probably circular, with hardened base and elevated edges; and above all, that, if treated with simple apjdications merely, it_ is extremely difficult to heal. But none of these characteristics are in- * For an account of this intere.sting point in the history of .syphilis, see the late Inspector-general I'ergusson, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv., and Guthrie, ii. vol. viii.