494 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. of India rubber, and having a hole in one side, through which the acid can be very conveniently applied.* Eortirpution.—If thp preceding measures fail, the piles must be extirpated. Piles, if external, maj' be removed by excision with the knife or scissors; if internal, they should be removed by ligature, for excision of them might occasion a fatal haemorrhage.+ But the sur- geon must bear in mind that it is highly dangerous to operate upon internal piles if the health is broken, or if there is any organic disease of the liver or kidneys ; and the operation must be both preceded and followed by a course of the most regular diet, and medicines to main- tain the secretions, and remedj' any disorder in the health. The operation is performed as follows: The bowels having been previously well cleared, the patient must be told to protrude the piles; and if he cannot do it easily, he should sit over a vessel of warm water, or have an enema of warm water. Then the piles should be drawn out with a tenaculum, and a ligature (not too fine) be tied as tightly as possible round the base of each. If one of the tumours is large, a double ligature may be passed through its base with a needle, and either half be tied separately. Before finally tightening the liga- tures, the piles should be slightly punctured. After the operation, the ends of the thread should be cut short, .and be returned into the rectum. The patient should remain in bed, and the bowels should not be disturbed for forty-eight hours after the operation. Pain is to be relieved by an opiate, F. 32; and if it persist, the piles should be examined to see whether the ligatures remain as tight as possible, and if not, they should be reapplied. V. Warts, Condvlomata, and other excrescences around the anus, that arise from local irritation, are to be removed with the knife, and the surface from which they grew should, during the granulating stage, be treated with astringent lotions. VI. IIA2MOHRHAGE from the rectum is a verj' frequent concomitant of piles, and may be of two kinds. In the first place it m.ay be caused by the bursting of a varicose vein ; in which case the blood is venous; and the ha'inorrhage in general occurs only at unfrequent intervals. But far more frequently it proceeds from the vascular surface of internal piles ; which gives way under the straining which accompanies defeca- tion. In the latter case the blood is arterial: it is squirted from the anus in jets, when the patient is straining at the water-closet, and the bleeding occurs very frequently, especially when the body is feverish, or the piles inflamed. Haemorrhage from the rectum may be distin- guished from that which has its source higher up, by noticing that the * See an account of Dr. Houston’s method in Puhlin Med. Journ., Marcli, 1843 ; Feigusson, Pract. Surg. 2nd Ed. p. 595. See also a very good paper by H. Lee, Med. Guz., 1848. I If the surgeon is determined to excise internal piles, the only safe way of doing so is as follows'When the tumour is ]irotiudcd, the base of it should be transfixed by a long needle, which will prevent it from returning into the anus. Then it m.ay be cut otf; .and the cut surface being exposed to the air, will not bleed so profusely, or if it does, it is easy to apply cold, astringents, or ligatures.