WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 45C If, after the primary dangers of haemorrhage and inflammation have ceased, and the wound has closed, there are rigors, dyspnoea, and other signs of empyema, jyaracentesis is requisite. And if tliese symp- toms come on soon after the injury, the paracentesis should be per- formed at tlie site of the wound; but if they come on at a distant period, the paracentesis should be done at the usual place, in order to avoid the adhesions that are sure to be fonned near the wound. Foreign bodies in the chest add greatly to the danger of exhausting suppuration, although patients have recovered for years with balls, or pieces of cloth, encj'sted in the lung or pleural cavity. In some cases, a ball has remained rolling loosely about in the pleural cavit}^ If anj^ foreign body is detected, it should, if possible, be removed, and part of the upper border of a rib may be sawn away with Iley’s saw, if necessary, in order to get at it. Some surgeons direct penetrating wounds of the chest not to be closed ; or they even recommend tents or canulaj to be inserted, to provide for the escape of blood or matter. But it must be evident that there will be much less liability to severe inflammation if the wound is closed, just as in wounds of joints and compound fractures. Besides, “ if the patient,” says Hennen, “ is placed with the wound in a dependent posture, the e.xit of effused fluids is not necessarily impeded. If they exist in large quantity, the wound is effectually prevented from closing ; if the flow is so minute as to admit of the union of the wound, the quantity efl'used is within the power of the absorbents to remove.” After wounds of the chest, there is a constant susceptibility of in- flammation from slight causes, so that the patient should be cautious to avoid over-fatigue, intemperance, and atinosplieric vicissitudes. X. Abscess behind the sternum, and caries of that bone some- times require a perforation to be made in it with a trephine.* XI. Wounds of the Heart generally prove fatal from haemor- rhage. Numerous instances, however, are on record, in which stabs or musket wounds of this organ healed, both in man and animals, with- out any ill effects remaining. The diagnosis and prognosis will of course be extremely doubtful. The only available treatment is free depletion and opiates, in order to prevent hmmorrhage, and keep the circulation as quiet as possible, so that the blood may coagulate in the wound, and the coagulum become adherent and organized. • For cases, references, ifcc., sec G. Borlase Childs, Lancet, 24th Aug. 1850 ; Cresar Hawkins, Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. v. p. 62.