432 ■ EXTRACTION OF TEETH. i'. ^ . pides and molars are to be loosened by moving them from side to side, so as to make the alveolar process yield a little, and then they may be pulled perpendicularly, upwards or downwards, as the case may be. The operator should gmsp the forceps firmly, in such a manner that it may move altogether with his hand ; but yet not so forcibly as to run the risk of crushing the tooth. The two preceding figures were sketched by Mr. W. Bagg from the hand of Mr. Tomes. 2. The clemior is highly useful for stumps, and for old straggling teeth. The point is to be thrust firmly down between the tooth and its socket, and then by bringing the instrument into a horizontal position, and making a fulcnim of the edge of the alveolar process, or of the adjoining tooth, or of the operator’s fingers, the tooth may be lifted out. 3. The hey is an instrument that is often employed for the ex- traction of the bicuspides and molares ; but it is more painful than the forceps, find every one must know instances of laceration of the gum, and splintering of the alveoli, followed perhaps bj^ tedious exfoliation, that have been produced by the clumsy use of this instru- ment ; not to mention the risk of the claw slipping from the decayed tooth and dragging out a sound one instead. If, however, it is preferred, care should be taken to select an instrument of proper size, and to place the fulcrum in a proper position. If the key is too small, and the fulcrum too high, very pro- bably the crown of the tooth will be snapped off. If the key is too large, and the fulcrum too low, eitlier the claw of the instrument may be snapped across, or the al- veolar process be extensively splin- tered. The adjoining figure is in- tended to show the right position, which will draw the tooth more or less perpendicularly from its socket. The fulcrum ought to be ])Iaced on the inner side, for the bicuspides of the lower jaw, and molars of the upper; and on the outer side for the molars of the lower jaw. The dentes sapiential of the upper jaw should never, according to Bell, be extracted with the key, because of the delicate texture of the bone on which the fulcrum must rest. Before extracting teeth with the key, it is usual to cut away the gum from their necks by means of a gum lancet; a practice which some authorities consider unnecessary. It certainly is unnecessary in the majority of cases, especially for the extraction of the temporary teeth, and of the teeth of old persons which have separated from the gum, and become loose in their sockets; yet it may be performed either if the gum has been subject to repeated inflammation, which