ERYSIPELAS. G6 These causes may be sufficient of themselves to produce the disease (which then is said to be uUoj)atIiic); or they may merely predis- pose the patient to suffer, on the occurrence of some injurj’’ to the skin, which acts as an exciting ciiiise; such as leech-bites, caustic, and burns. Idiopathic erysipelas generally attacks the face and sc.alp. Treat.'uent.—The indications for the cotist Hut tonal treatment are, to diminish febrile excitement—to support the strength—and to cor- rect the secretions ;—and for the local treatment, to allay irritation—to arrest the extension of the disease—and to give free exit to sloughs and discharge. But the surgeon must never forget that erj’sipelas varies so much in its tj'pe at different periods, sometimes requiring free antiphlogistic measures, and sometimes bark and opium, that when a new epidemic arises he must carefully studj' what Sydenham calls the genius of the disease, and observe the effect of remedies, in order to determine what plan of treatment is the best.* Emetics and Purgatives.—It is always necessary to begin with what Dr. Todd calls eliminative treatment; that is, to produce a full and copious discharge of all the excretions, by which the blood is naturallj' purified. On the first occurrence of the symptoms an emetic should be given (F. 98), and be followed by ten grains of calomel, and by purgative draughts, every six or eight hours, as long as they bring away hardened lumps of faeces, or as long as the secretions continue to amend under their use. Antiphlogistic measures.—Bleeding may be required if the patient is young and vigorous, the pulse full and strong, the face flushed, and delirium violent; and if the inflamed part is full, tense, and vividly red, and especially if seated on the head or throat. In similar active in- flanimator}^ cases, calomel may be given in doses of two grains everj’’ six hours with antimony (F. 62); and saline draughts (F. 58) in the intervals;—but in most cases of simple erysipelas a small dose of mer- cury at bed-time (F. C3), and purges and salines during the day, to act on the kidneys and skin, will suffice. For it must be recollected that as the disease is not purely inflammatory, it cannot be cut short by mere antiphlogistic measures; and that debility is much to be dreaded; especially in_ cases occurring in the crowded habitations of LoHtLou. p ? Tonics and Stimidants.—Bari; should be given in all cases as soon as the tongue becomes clean and the skin moist; but it should be resort- ed to without delaj"^ if the pulse is soft, tremulous, or verj’ rapid, the heat moderate, and the delirium low and muttering, or if the patient is naturally delicate, and subject to periodic or recurrent attacks;—or if antiphlogistic measures do not arrest the disease, or if suppuration or sloughing have commenced. Wine and good nourishment will .also be requisite, .and it is on those that we must principally depend for the patient’s safety in severe cases of any kind; and especially those attended with sloughing and profuse suppuration. • See also Graves’s Clinical Medicine, p. 575.