374 DISEASES OP THE IRIS. but in other cases, slow and insidious. It is also divided into several species, according to the nature of the cause producing it. Thus, 1. The traunmlia iritis is that which arises from penetrating wounds of the eye. 2. The rheumatic iritis arises from cold ; although, like the rheumatic sclerotitis, it does not necessarily occur in persons who have suffered from rheumatism previously. 3. Syphilitic iritis.—This is the most frequent variety. It is said to be distinguished by the oupil being displaced upwards and inwards, and by the effusion of lymph in little nodules of a reddish or dirtj"' brown colour, which cause the pupil to become angular. There is great pain at night, and but little by day, and secondary venereal affections of the throat and skin are usually present at the same time. 4. The arthritic, or gouty iritis, is an asthenic form, general- ly occurring to elderly dys- peptics and sots. It is said to be distinguished by the atonic dusky hue of the red- ness ; and the varicose state of the blood-vessels ; and there is also sometimes a narrow white ring or inter- val of sclerotica between the red vascular zone and the cornea ; but IMackenzie says that the same is seen also in the other varieties of iritis if occurring to old people; more- over, it is seen in all inflammations of the eye, when the conjunc- tiva and sclerotic are much injected, and the cornea clear and not vascular. There is great pain around the eye ; and the patient will generally be found to have laboured under irregular gout, and various forms of asthenic d3'spepsia. 5. Scrofulous iritis.—This is generally an extension of disease from the external tunics in neglected cases of strumous ophthalmia; but iritis sometimes, although rarely, occurs in young scrofulous subjects as a primarj' affection. Treatment.—The indications are, 1, to subdue inflammation ; 2, to arrest the effusion of lymph, and cause absorption of what is already effused ; 3, to preserve the pupil entire; 4, to allay pain. 1. If the patient be strong, and the disease acute, with full strong pulse and much fever, bleeding from the arm, or cupping from the temple may be requisite. The bowels must be well cleared, the anti- phlogistic regimen generally be observed, without bringing the patient into a state of debility, and blisters be applied after the most acute stage has subsided. 2. To fulfil the second indication, the principal remedj' is mercurj'; given in such a manner as gently to affect the mouth ; such as * From a drawing in the possession of Dr. Wostmacott. It represents the nodules of lyinpli elfused in syphilitic iritis.