FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. 247 done ; moreover there are some patients who find all bandages in- tolerable, but who do very well by being kept quiet in bed. 2. To obviate injlummation oi the chest, and diminish the arterializing duties of the lungs by bleeding (if required), rest in bed, and low diet ; to unload the bowels by purgatives, so as to enable the diaphragm to descend freely'; .and to administer opiates, to prevent pain and cough. Emphysema, a swelling caused by the presence of air in the cellular tissue, is an occasional complic.ation of this fracture. It is produced in the following way:—The extremities of the fractured rib perforate both pleura and wound the lung. In the .act of inspinition, air escapes from the lung into the cavity of the pleura, and from thence through the wound in the pleura cosiulis into the cellular tissue of the trunk. Emphysema forms a soft puffy tumour, that crepitates and disperses on pressure. Treatment.—The first object,” says I\Ir. Vincent, “ is to adapt a firm band.age over the part of the rib broken, bj”^ which the effusion of air into the cellular tissue under the integuments is stopped. The air passing from the wounded lung is now confined to the cavity of the pleura, with which it is filled, compressing the lung. By this means the wound which was made whilst the lung was dilated, is more com- pletely closed than would have been done with any contriv.ance of art. This wound is usually healed on the eighth day; at that period the breathing greatly improves,”* and the c.ase is soon reduced to one of simple broken rib.—See the Chapter on the Injuries of the Chest. IX. Fr.vcture of the Sterno.m. Symptoms. — Crepitus may be felt during inspiration or other movements of the trunk, and dis- placement (if an}') c.an be detected by cx.amination. Treatment.—The same as for fractured ribs. X. Fractures of the Pelvis can be caused only bj' most tre- mendous violence, .and arc often attended with some fatal complication; —such as laceration of the bladder or rectum, or of the great arteries or veins. Treatment.—The only thing to be done is, to pl.ace the patient at perfect rest, .and in as easy a position as possible ; to keep a catheter in the bladder; to m,ake incisions if urine is extravasated into the peri- neum, as it will be if the urethra is lacerated by fr.actured portions of the rami of tlic ischium .and pubes, .and to treat any symptoms that may arise. If it can be borne, a broad belt may be passed round the pelvis; and .another under the nates, which might be attached to a pulley over the bed, so that the patient may raise the pelvis, without exerting any of the muscles attached to it. There are some cases of fracture of the os innominatum passing through the acetabulum, and caused by falls on the hip, which might be mistaken for fr.acturc of the cervix femoris. For instance, in some cases related' by Mr. Earle,+ the foot was everted, and there was loss » Vincent, op. cit. p. 47. I Earle on Kractures of the Pelvis, Med. Cliir, Tr.ans. vol. xix.; see also case Ixxi. m the la-st edition of Sir A. Cooper on Fractures and Dislocations.