VI PREFACE. In the third Part, all the varieties of injurj'are described; cuts, bruises, stabs, gun-shot wounds, burns, scalds, frostbites, and the effects of the poisons which .are generated in animal bodies by disease. In the fourth Part, all the various tissues, stmctures, organs and regions of the body, beginning with cellular tissue and skin, then muscle, bone, the blood-vessels, the head, eye, neck, &c., are con- sidered in order, with such of their injuries and diseases as are assigned to the care of the surgeon. The last Part contains a description of such of the operations as are not included in the other parts. The Appendi,x contains a large number of Prescriptions available for almost every form of disease, internal or external, and arranged according to the classes of medicines which they relate to. I have added considerably to their number in this edition, as I am informed that they have proved of considerable utility to junior practitioners. Of the woodcuts which illustrate these pages, about one half are the work of the Messrs. Bagg ; and the remainder of my friend Dr. West- MACOTT. The Table annexed will show to which of these gentlemen each is to be attributed, and will also indicate the source whence it was copied. I may observe that with very few exceptions, these drawings are not mere diagrtims, invented in the artist’s studio, nor yet copies from any other published work, but are faithful and original representations of some fact or object in nature. About twenty new engravings are added to this edition, besides that several of the old ones have been drawn afresh, and rendered more correct. The numerous references at the foot of almost every page will show my anxiety to acknowledge everj^ source of information I have made use of. They will also show the reader, who desires fuller informa- tion on any subject, than my necessarily condensed pages can give him, where he can seek it at the fountain head. I must, in conclusion, express my most sincere thanks to the numerous friends who have assisted me in my labours. To Mr. Pahtuidge, Mr. Fergusson, and their colleagues the Medical Pro- fessors of King’s College, and Medical Officers of the King’s College Hospital, I am under deep obligations, for the privilege of witnessing their practice at the Hospital, and for the permission to have drawings made from some of the preparations in the College iMuseum. Mr. Fergusson I have particularly to thank for allowing me to make use