404 DISEASES OF THE EAR. the passage dry and devoid of tvao’, it can do no good, and may greatly add to the irritation. Before doing it, therefore, the surgeon should ascertain by means of the speculum whether there is any wax really present; and if so, lumps of it and flakes of cuticle may often be removed with forceps, without the possibility of doing mischief. It is scarcely justifiable to poke the ear with probes for the purpose of removing wax. IV. A THICKENED State of the cuticle lining the meatus, is not an uncommon sequel of otorrhcea. The accumulations must be removed by the syringe, and then the surface be touched with a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and afterwards with dilute citrine ointment (F. 168) melted and applied warm with a brush. V. Polypus.—Genuine potypous excrescences, “ fleshy peduncu- lated growths, nearly colourless, having a thin cuticular covering, imat- tended with pain, not appearing as the result of inflammation, and not accompanied with discharge,” Mr. Wilde believes not to be verj' com- mon ; and when thej' are present, the}’’ generally grow from the middle or cerumino-glandular portion of the meatus. Treatment.—The point of attachment of any such growth having been ascertained, it may be snipped off, if possible, by means of very fine curved scissors, and the place from which it grew should be regu- larly touched with nitrate of silver, to prevent its reproduction. If it cannot conveniently be excised, it may perhaps be cut off by means of a loop of fine platina wire, carried through a hole in the end of a little silver rod, and slipped over the excrescence.* VI. Fungous Granulations are exceedingly common conse- quences of otorrhcea, and often pass for polypi; although, as has just been observed, the genuine polypus is exceedingly rare. They gene- rally occur at the very bottom of the meatus, or grow from the mem- brana tyinpani, or from the cavity of the tympanum after the membrane has been perforated bj' ulceration. Sometimes the mem- brane is covered with florid vascular granulations so as to resemble the yranular conjunctiva. Treatment The nitrate of silver should be regularly applied to the diseased surface, and astringent washes should be injected. The nitrate should be applied as before directed only to the diseased part itself, by means of a probe, or some similar contrivance coated with it; and it certainly is not justifiable to thrust a great stick of it, or a great piece of sulphate of copper into the ear, and roll it round, thus cau- terizing the healthy as well as the diseased parts, and occasioning in- tense irritation. VII. Caries op the Temporal Bone, especially of the mastoid process, may be a consequence of extension of inflammation from the * For a (loscription of a very neat instrument of this kind, refer to Mr. Wilde's paper in the Dublin Journal, Jan. 1844. The lunar caustic should be applied by means of a probe, the blunt end of which should be dipped in nitrate of silver that has been melted in a platinum spoon over a spirit lamp, and is just beginning to cool.