512 DISEASES OP PROSTATE GLAND. be gradually moved forward till it lights on the right spot, and the dripping of blood ceases. IV. Solid Tumours in the course of the urethra, composed of indurated follicles, torment the patient by keeping up a perpetual gleet and chordee. The mercurial ointment with camphor externallj'; and the passing of a bougie; or keeping a small catheter in the bladder for a few days at a time, are the chief remedies. V. Acute and Chronic InflamiM.ation of the urethra, from whatever cause arising, ditfer in no respect, in their symptoms, conse- quences, or treatment, from gonorrhoea and gleet. VI. Foreign Bodies in the urethra may consist of calculi, or of small bodies introduced from without; of clots of blood, of mucus, or, in rare cases, of portions of frncal matter, or worms that have passed into the bladder from tlie intestines by means of an ulcerated opening. They may perhaps be pushed forwards by the fingers, aided by the patient’s strainings, — and then may be brought out through the orifice (which must be slightly dilated if necessary) by forceps, or a bent probe. Or, it is a very good plan to press the thumb on the urethra behind the foreign body, and then to inject a good stream of water from a large syringe, so as to dilate tlie passage. But if these means fail, the substance must be pushed back into the membranous portion (if not there already), and be extracted by an incision in the perinamiu. Incisions into the front of tlie urethra should be avoided, for they arc apt to leave irremediable fistulm ; or if near the scrotum, may occasion infiltration of urine into its loose cellular tissue. section V.—OF THE DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. I. Acute Inflammation of the prostate is gener<all_y a conse- quence of acute gonorrhoea. The Symptoms are, great weight, pain, and throbbing at the neck of the bladder, and tenderness of the perinseum; the gland feels swelled and tender on examination by the rectum, and there are frequent, violent, and exceedingly painful efforts to make water. Treatment Rest in bed, cupping or leeches to the perinreum, or general bleeding if the patient is strong, liip-baths and enemata of starch ^ii, laudanum 3ss every night. If the urine cannot be passed without it, a very small gum catheter may be introduced; but it should be avoided if possible. II. Arscess of the prostate may be suspected if rigors, and ob- scure swelling in the perinmum, follow the symptoms of acute inflam- mation. In any such case, the swelling should at once be freely punctured with a bistoury. If left to itself, the abscess may burst into the rectum or the urethra, whicli latter circumstance will be indi- cated by a sudden discharge of pus with the urine. If the abscess should burst into the urethra, the catheter should be used every time the patient passes his urine, in order to prevent it from entering and