CULOROFOllM. Lancet, 1850, vol. ii. p. 262. 619 like other medicines, is alwaj's used most safely, when there is fair necessity for its legitimate effects. Whenever there is an amount of pain to be suffered, which is likely to be detrimental to the health in anyway, let it be used legitimately; but when it is considered that if about twenty minims too much he inhaled into the Hood at any given moment, the hearfs action is irrecoverably stopped, he mus^av£ s^e- thing less than the courage and prudence of an Englishman wTio would consent to lose his consciousness in order to escape the pain of tooth- drawing, or who would run the risk of letting some bungler administer the vapour too hastily, and so send him into a sleep from which there is no waking. Chloroform compared with Ether, and other Substances OP ITS Class.—Very many experiments have been made on other substances analogous in composition to chloroform, and on various combinations of them. Ether is much less pleasant than chloroform, more irritating to the air passages, and more apt to be followed by headache and other unpleasant symptoms, of which the persistent taste and smell of it in the breath are not the least. But it is much safer than chloroform, less rapid in its action, and only one-third as powerful; that is, at least three times the cpiantity is required to pro- duce a given effect. Besides, it produces complete muscular relaxa- tion more perfectly, so that it is perhaps preferable in cases of hernia, dislocation, and spasmodic stricture. The Dutch Lhpiid, or compound of chlorine and olefiant gas, so called because discovered by the Dutch chemists in 1795, resembles chloroform in its general effects, and is only about one-half so powerful or rapid in its action. It it not easy to procure. Mixtures of chloroform and alcohol have been tried in the hope that the effects of the former might be rendered slower and more persistent; but the chloroform evaporates first and leaves the alcohol behind, so that no advantage is gained. For fuller information on these subjects we can only refer to Dr. Snow’s often quoted papers in the London Medical Gazette for the years 1848, —49, and —50. Other An.esthetics. Intense cold has been recommended by Dr. James Arnott, of Brighton, for various therapeutic purposes, and amongst others, the checking the growth of cancer, and the production of local anesthesia. Mr. Thomas W. Nunn* has published a case in which he removed some warty growths from the female genitals, with very little suffering to the patient, and veiy little hemorrhage, al- though both are usually severe after such an operation : having first applied pieces of ice to the growths till they were blanched and cold. Before extirpating a tumour in any other position, pounded ice and salt might be applied in a bladder till the skin becomes quite be- numbed. This method deserves further investigation. Mesmerisi/i.—There can be little doubt but that the manoeuvres which are called mesmeric passes, if practised long enough upon a person whose credulity is great, and strength of mind little (np matter