160 UtDROPHOBIA. * from his misery. An entire and remarkable remission (perhaps from ^ the use of medicine) sometimes occurs; and the patient enjoys perfect \ ease, or perhaps sleeps for some hours;—but yet the symptoms return, after a time, with aggravated violence. Again, in some cases there is a perfect calm before dissolution; “ the patient becomes tranquil, and most of his sufferings subside or vanish;—he can eat, nay, drink or , converse \vith facility; and former objects associated with' the excru- j ciating torture of attempting to swallow liquids no longer disturb his feelings. From this calm he sinks into repose, and suddenly waking from his sleep, expires.” * Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances most frequentlj*^ found are, congestion of the membranes and substance of the brain and spinal cord, with effusion of serum. Sometimes blood is extra- vasated around the cervical portion of the cord. The lining mem- brane of the fauces, oesophagus, trachea, and bronchi, are mostlj" ' highly vascular; the papillae at the root of the tongue large; and the *• lungs congested. The stomach often contains a darkish fluid, and ; patches of vascularity of a dark purple colour, are found in it and in , tffe intestines. But although some one or more of these morbid ap- 1 pearances are detected in most cases, still there is not one of them ' that is present invariably. The brain, spinal cord, and fauces have , been found pale, and the stomach without spots. Hydrocyanic acid ' has been detected in the blood after death, but this is not peculiar to > hydrophobia.F Pathology.—It is quite clear, therefore, that no change of struc- ture that has yet been discovered, can be considered essential to the existence of hydrophobia. It is true that the difficulty of breathing and swallowing may be partially accounted for by the inflammation about the fauces; and that gi’cat irritability of the surface is symptom- atic of irritation of the spinal cord. But still no mere local changes can explain the mass of symptoms, which must depend on a peculiar change in the blood, or nervous system, or both. Diagnosis.—The disease which we read of under the title of spo?i- tecoas//^(/rqp7/o(ua, or hydrophobia not caused by a dog’s bite, con- ~ sists sometimes of hysterical symptoms, sometimes of a state like delirium tremens, and sometimes of genuine phrenitis, attended with suffocative dyspneea and great irritability of the skin. It usuall}' occurs to hysterical women or to drunkards. Now, as we know that ' h}'steria may simulate any disease that can be named, nothing can be more likely than that if an hysterical or nervous person have been bitten by any dog or cat, healthy or otherwise, the fears of the conse- quences, and knowledge of the symptoms of hydrophobia, will suffice to bring on a simulated attack. Or again, if a person bo affected with any form of delirium after an accidental hite, what can be more likely than that hydrophobia will be the leading subject of his • i ravings ? • narclsley, Cycl. Pract. Med. ArC. Hydrophobia. t Med. Gaz., 5th September, 1840. 1