,559 EXTIRPATION OF TIIE BREAST. Lreast must be conducted on the principles laid down in the chapter on Malignant Disease generally. We can only reiterate the opinion there given of the almost hopelessness of remedial measures ol any kind. The oedema of the arm, which is often such a distressing complica- tion of the later stages of this disease, m.ay be somewhat reUu'ded by bandages, and by keeping the limb in an elevated posture. Blisters near the shoulder, and punctures of the skin maybe tried when it becomes excessive. XII. JIedullakv Sarcoma of the breast is generally combined with more or less scirrhus, and rarely exists alone. It forms a large rapidly increasing tumour; lobulated on its surface; and the projecting parts yield an elastic sensation. This affection m.ay be distinguished from scirrhus by its more rapid growth and greater softness. It is often difficult in its e.arly stage to distinguish it from innocent chronic tumoiu's, more especiallj' as the latter ma}' .after a time become the scat of m.align.ant growths. Melanosis and gelaiiniform sarcoma are sometimes, though rarely, found in the breast. XIII. Extirpation of the Breast is thus performed: The patient being placed in a convenient position, sitting or reclining, an assistant takes the arm of the affected side and holds it out, so as to put the pectoralis on the stretch. The surgeon then makes a semi- elliptic.al incision below the nipple along the lower liorder of the pectoralis major, and .another on the upper and inner side of the nipple, so as to include that part between them. He next dissects out the lower and outer part of the gland, t|uite down to the pectoralis (taking care not to get behind that muscle), and then, cutting from below upwards, he sepmaates the remainder. If an adjacent gland is en- lafg'ed, the incisions should be managed so as to include it also. When the mass is removed, its surface should bo wiped and ex.amined, and the wound should also lie well examined, to ascertain that no part of the gland, .and that no hardened or discoloured portions of cellular tissue or of muscular fibre, are left behind. Arteries arc then to be tied, and the patient to be put to bed, and when all oozing has ceased, a few strips of adhesive plaster may be .applied. If desirable to effect gentle pressure on the wound, to stop oozing, a small flat sand-bag, says Mr. Birkett, may be placed upon the flaps. XIV. Boys and Girls about the age of puberty are subject to? slight swelling .and tenderness of the breast, which soon disappears ofl itself if not interfered with. XVk Men occ.asionally suffer from m.alignant disease of the breast,) which manifests itself in the same manner, and requires the same] treatment, as it does in the female.