VENiESECTION. 5G9 sions should be carried through the cellular cyst of the tumour. In all cases it is a better plan (unless the tumour is exceedingly large) to carrj' the dissection at once boldly to the deepest part where the largest vessels enter the tumour, than to tie the different branches as they are divided, by which means some vessels may perhaps be tied more than once. Again, it is requisite in every case that the extirpa- tion be complete, because if the smallest portion is left, it may become the nucleus of a fresh gro wth. If, therefore, it is found that there is any portion of a tumour which cannot be cut out without fear of dan- gerous haemorrhage, a double ligature should be passed through its base, and be tied tightly on each side of it. II. VENajSECTiON at the bend of the arm should always, if possible, be performed in the median-cephalic vein. A ligature being placed a little above the elbow (but not tight enough to stop the pulse at the wrTs't;, the operator takes the fore- arm in his hand, places his thumb on the vein a little below the in- tended puncture, and then(using the right hand for the right arm and vice versa) pushes the lancet obliquely into the vein, and makes it cut its way directly outwards. When sufficient blood has been taken, the surgeon should untie the ligature above the elbow, and place his thumb on the bleeding aperture. Next he should put a little bit of lint on the wound, and secure that with a strip of plaster, only remov- ing his thumb sufficiently to admit of the application. Then he should remove his thumb enough to put on a little square compress of linen, and over that the middle of a bandage. This is to be passed round the elbow in the form of a figure of 8, and the two ends are to be crossed and turned backwards over the com- press. The next figure is intended to show the way in which the sur- geon should grasp the arm, and keep his thumb over the bleeding aperture till the bandage is secured. The jugular vein is sometimes opened in cases of apoplexy in adults, and in children if the veins at the elbow are hidden by fat. The • This cut shows the veins of the bend of the elbow, together witli the relation of the brachial artery to the median Ijasilic vein.