THE VENEREAL DISEASE. 170 2ndly, that it was merely an aggravated variety of the old disease; or, 3rdly, that it was not the venereal disease at all; but some malady (such as sivvens, yaws, radesiige, ^c.) resembling it. The most probable supposition is, that syphilis did exist from, very early ages, but tliat it received increased virulence in the fifteenth century in consequence of war, famine, and the intercourse of foreigners; circumstances, which in all times have produced an aggravated type of syphilis; whilst its virulence is invariably diminished under the in- fluence of peace and cleanliness. But the consideration of the history of this new malady brings us to our second question. II. Was it imported from America?—The greatest weight of evidence is certainly opposed to this supposition; because no such disease is mentioned by the very earliest historians of the discovery of that continent;—neither is it mentioned by the earliest writers on America; and Peter Martyr, who was physician to Ferdinand and Isabella, and who was actually at Barcelona when Columbus returned from his first voyage in 1493, does not say a word as to its American origin. But besides — of the earliest authors on the venereal disease, some attribute it to the divine vengeance, some to an earthquake, some to a malignity of the air caused bj' an overflow of the Tiber; not a few to a celestial influx, or malignant conjunction of Saturn and l\fars in the sign of Scorpio, or some other astrological nonsense;—almost all refer its outbreak to the siege of Naples— but not one for the first thirty or forty years derives it from the West Indies. And it appears pretty certain that the disease pre- valent in the West Indies, which might have been brought home, was not syphilis, but the epian, or yaws, or sivvens; a disease often com- municated to the vc)‘y young or old, and to persons who do not catch it by carnal conversation. III. —Are there more syphilitic poisons than one?—Car- michael and others assert, that there are various kinds of sj-philitic poisons, each kind causing a peculiar primary ulcer, and a peculiar train of secondary symptoms. They say, in proof of their opinions, that every other morbid poison is uniform and regular in its effects ; and that it would be “ an unreasonable and unwarranted exception to an universal law of nature,” if the venereal were not so also. But venereal diseases are multiform and irregular, consequently thej' must be caused by more poisons than one. For what other single poison can produce papular, pustular, scaly, and other kinds of eruptions ? But these arguments are subverted by the fact, that a prostitute with one ulcer, may cause various kinds of primary ulcers in the men who have intercourse with her;—tliat the same kind of primary sore will give rise to different eruptions in different persons, and in the same person at different times;—that the differences of primary sores depend on differences of situation, constitution, treatment, and the circumstances of the times, as was observed above :—and that if arguments in favour of multiplicity of poisons be drawn from the mere