LITHOTOMY. 53G finger passes readily through the loose cellular tissue, but is resisted by the deep fascia, immediately anterior to which the groove of the staff can be felt not thickly covered. The point of the instrument is slipped along the nail of the finger, and, guided by it, is entered, the back still directed upwards, into the groove, at this point. Tlie finger all along is placed so as to depress and protect as much as possible the coats of the rectum, and the same knife, pushed forwards, is made to divide the deep fascia, the muscular fibres within its layers," and to perforate the urethra about two lines in front of the prostate. Then it must be pushed gently into the bladder, slitting up the urethra and notching the margin of the prostate in its course. The knife being withdrawn, the left forefinger is gently insinuated into the bladder, dilating the parts as it enters ; then the assistant having removed the staff, the forceps are cautiously introduced over the finger into the bladder; the finger being gradually withdrawn as the instru- ment enters. And, at this moment, i\Ir. Fergusson, with admirable dexterity, opens the blades, and catches the stone as it is brought within their jaws by the gush of urine that escapes. If, however, the stone is not caught in this readj^ way, the forceps must be closed and brought into contact witli it—then the blades are opened over it and made to grasp it ; if the stone is seized awkwardly, it is relin- quished and seized again—then it is extracted by slow, cautious, undulating movements. The forceps should be held with the con- vexity of one blade upwards and of the other downwards; and the endeavour should be to make the parts gradually yield and dilate, not to tear them. The general maxims to be borne in mind during the performance of this operation are, 1. to make a free external incision, and to bring it low enough down, so that the urine maj’- subsequently escape freely without infiltrating the cellular tissue; 2. not to cut too high up, or to open the urethra too much in front, for fear of wounding the bulb or its artery; 3. not to wound the rectum, or pudic artery, by carry- ing the incisions too much inwards or outwards; 4. and above all, not to cut completely through the prostate, beyond its fibrous envelope, otherwise the urine will find a ready passage into the loose cellular tissue of the pelvis, and the patient will almost surely die.* The incision into the prostate should not be of greater extent than six or seven lines; its direction downwards and outwards, like the rest of the wound. The varieties of this operation before alluded fo are as follow. Most surgeons direct the assistant to hold the staff so that it may project in the perinmum, and incline a little to the left side of it,— and when they have opened the urethra, and are about to incise the neck of the bladder, they take its handle in their own left hand, • Wo should not omit to mention that .some groat authorities, for in.st.anco, Cheselden, Martineau, S. Cooper, advocate a rather free incision of the neck of the bladder. Kor an interesting collection of opinion.s on this point, see .Mr. Hrittan's excellent Translation of .Malgaigne’s Operative Surgery.