PARACENTESIS THORACIS. 453 to splash, if the ear is applied to the chest. The metallic thMing is a clear sound, like the dropping of water into a cask. It is produced when the patient coughs, by which means a drop of fluid is shaken from the orifice in the lung, and made to fall to the bottom of the chest. Treatment. — As far as the mere surgical treatment of pneumo- thorax is concerned, if the breathing become very difficult, a grooved needle, or small exploring trocar, may be introduced between the fifth and sixth ribs, to let the air escape. II. IIjiMOTHORAX, which signifies the presence of blood in the pleural cavity, may be suspected if great dyspnoea and dulness on percussion follow a fractured rib. The blood may proceed either from the intercostal artery, or from the lung. Treatment.— If the difficulty of breathing be very urgent, para- centesis must be performed, to let the blood escape. III. Hydrothora.x, or water on the chest, is indicated by great difficulty of breatliing, especially when lying down—livid countenance —disturbed sleep—dulness on percussion—and if the effusion be con- fined to one side of the chest, there is very great difficulty in lying upon the other. Treatment.—If the hydrothorax were merely an inflammatory effu- sion from pleurisy, a local affection,might be advisable for the dyspnoea; but if (as it is generally) it is an effect of organic disease of the heart or lungs, the operation would do no good. At all events, both sides of the chest must not bo punctured. It has been suggested to the author bj' Dr. Ferguson, that it might be advantageous to employ the needle for the cure of serous effusion into the pleura, in the same manner as it is employed for the cure of hydrocele and ganglion. That is to say, half a dozen punctures might be made with an acupuncture needle or grooved needle through one of the intercostal spaces; and thus the scrum might pass through the punctures into the cellular tissue outside the pleura, whence it might be absorbed. The same plan might also be adopted in cases of hydrops pericardii and ascites. IV. E.mi’ve.ma signifies abscess of the chest, or suppuration of the pleura. It is an effect of acute inflammation, whether idiopathic or aiused by injury. It is known by dulness on percussion, gradually increasing enlargement of the side of the chest—separation of the ribs —dyspncea—difficulty of lying on the sound side—and more or less (edema of the parietes of tlie chest. If left to itself, the abscess may point and burst between the ribs. Paracentesis is decidedly retiuirecl, it the case be clear ; if it be not, two or three punctures may be made with a grooved needle, or a small exploring trocar, and a cupping-glass be applied over them to e.xtract some fluid. V. Paracentesis Thoraci-s, or puncture of the chest, is an opera- tion sometimes retpiired for the foregoing affections, and especially for empyema, and may be performed by making an incision an inch and a half long, between the fourth and fifth or fifth and sixth ribs, at or