98 SCROFULA. health and strength, generally coeval with the earliest period of em- bryonic existence ; therefore it is absurd to suppose that this can be infallibly amended by any remedy whatever, if a medicine improves the appetite, and flesh, and strength, it may be persevered in ; but if it causes feverishness, emaciation, or debility, no vague idea of its specific virtues ought to induce the practitioner to continue it. Bark is of immense service when there is great exhaustion from suppuration, or when ulcers spread rapidly, and when it is necessary to make a sudden impression on the system. The decoction with quinine, or liq. cinchonre flavaj (F. 1, 4), are the best forms. Iron is better adapted for permanent administration than bark ; especially for thin, pale, flabby children, whose liver and bowels are kept in proper action. The muriated tincture, F. 13; the ammonio- cliloride, F. 14, (whose advantage is, that it can be combined with alkalis, although it is often too stimulating for children) ; the sesqui- oanjde ; the old-fashioned vi^ium ferri ; the ammonio-citrate, F. 12 ; the sulphate, F. 16, and a combination of the protoxide, with aloes and an alkali, will all be found useful.—F. 20. Sarsaparilla often produces the most unlooked-for benefit, especially the alkaline infusions, F. 84, 85, or the compound decoction (without mezereon and guaiacum) given in a concentrated form, so that the stomach may not be oSended by the bulk of fluid in which it is too much the fashion to prescribe it. This remedy seems to improve the powers of nutrition generally, and may always be given in cachectic diseases for which there is no palpable cause ; in fact, when we are at a loss what to prescribe. But it is of most peculiar service when there is great weakness with great irritability ; when tonics and nutriment cause feverishness, when the tongue is flabby, coated, and rather sore, and nothing seems to agree. Iodine should always be administered in combination with a metal, or alkali, or salt that renders it soluble—not in the form of simple tincture dropped into water. It should, moreover, be given in small doses for a long period ; half a grain per diem, gradually increased to a grain, is quite enough for an adult. A slight action on the bowels and increase of the urine may be expected ; but it should not be per- mitted to cause emaciation. The iodide of iron (F. 17) ; the iodide of potassium in doses of not more than gr. iii. ter die, with de- coction of sarsaparilla ; and F. 51 ; are convenient forms of admi- nistration-* * We must warn our jimior readers against the vague statements they some- times meet with, to the effect that iodine is good in scrofula because it promotes absorption. Scrofula is often said to consist in a peculiarly lymphatic, i. c. water}’, flabby temperament, which is no doubt partially true. Then again, the lymphatic or, as they are sometimes called, absorbent glands, arc peculiarly liable to become diseased in scrofulous persons. Hence some pereons, confounding the lymphatic temperament with the lymphatic or absorbent glands, have asserted iodine to be a good remedy for scrofula, on the ground of its promoting absorp- tion, which is ((piite hypothetically) supposed to bo the function of the l}mphatic glands. But it is better nutrition, not more absorption, that is wanted in scrofula.