ENLARGED PROSTATE. 513 irritating the cj’st. If the case is chronic and the habit scrofulous, quinine and tonics, and small doses of cubebs, to act as a gentle sti- mulus on the parts, will be of service. III. Chronic Enlargement of the prostate is extremely frequent in advanced life, and seems to depend on the decay of age rather than on any disease. It generally commences, as Sir B. Brodie observes, about the time that the hair turns gray, and when earthy specks begin to be deposited in the coats of the arteries. The gland increases from two to fourteen times its natural bulk, and becomes hardened. The increase in its size is readily detected by examination with the finger by the rectum. The middle lobe generally forms a projecting tumour at the neck of the bladder, and, in consequence of the altera- tion of the shape and size of the gland, the prostatic portion of the urethra becomes lengthened, and curved abruptly upwards. The first symptoms are slowness and difficulty in making water, sense of weight in the perimeum, and tenesmus. In the next place, the bladder becomes irritable, and the calls to make water are oftener than before. Then, as the patient cannot empty the organ complete!}', in consequence of the projection formed by the tumour, a portion of urine always remains behind, and decomposes, and becomes ammonia- cal. Sometimes a fit of complete retention ensues, and it may be brought on by exposure to cold or excess in venery. Next, the mu- cous coat of the bladder, irritated by the frequent strainings, and by the alkaline urine, inflames and se- cretes a viscid mucus. Finally, the obstacle continuing to increase, the bladder is constantly distended, the urine perpetually dribbles away, the ureters become dilated into sub- sidiary receptacles; the kidneys be- come disorganized, the patient's little remaining strength is exhaust- ed, and he dies. Abscess in the gland, or ulceration of that surface which projects into the bladder, sometimes adds to the patient’s misery, and hastens his death. Treatmetd.—Medicines are of no avail to remove senile enlargement of the prostate, although they may very likely be required for accom- panying disease of the bladder or kidneys.* The only thing to be ♦ Sir 13. Brodie gives a case in which enlargement of the prostate in a man aged tiiirty-one, following gonorrlKua, wa.s cured hy the iodide of potassium; and the same remedy has been used as a local application in the senile form. L L