464 ARTIFICIAL ANUS. very much hacerated, or he gangrenous, it should not be returned, but be left hanging out, that an artificial anus may be formed. The symptoms of injkimmation of the peritonceuin or abdominal viscera, which is of course exceedingly likely to follow these wounds and injuries, may readily be recognised. The patient lies on his back, with his knees drawn up ; he breathes solely with the thorax and not with the diaphragm or abdominal muscles; the countenance is anxious; the pulse small, wiry, and resisting, but becomes fuller after bleeding ; there is severe throbbing pain, with great tenderness, more or less widely diffused ; a dry tongue, constant nausea, or vomiting, and obstinate constipation, complete the catalogue. If the case proceeds to a fatal termination, the belly swells, partly from serous effusion, partly from tympanites; and the pulse becomes more frequent and weak, the patient retaining his senses to the last. The after treatment of all these cases is the same. The patient must be kept at perfect rest, and should lie on the wounded part, if such a posture be easy. Venaesection, calomel and opium, and leeches must be sedulously employed to avert hmmorrhage and inflam- mation, and the indication for bleeding must be taken rather from the stomach than from the pulse. The pulse will, from the nature of the parts inflamed, be small, and perhaps weak ; but if there be vomiting, bleeding may be performed without fear. After the bleeding, large doses of opium should be given, and should be repeated, so as to keep the system under its influence. Nothing but water, or thin arrow- root, should be given for three days, when the stomach or intestines are probably wounded. The author hopes that it is unnecessary to warn his readers against the fatal and abominable custom of giving purgatives in cases of in- flammation of the bowels arising from wounds of the abdomen. It is quite true that the bowels will be obstinately costive ; but this cos- tiveness arises from their being inflamed, and unable to propel their contents onwards ; and the proper remedies for it, are such as will relieve the inflammation—that is, bleeding, leeches, fomentations, and calomel and opium. But if, in spite of common sense, the surgeon attempts to overcome the costiveness bj’’ colocynth pills and black draughts, he will soon induce an obstimate vomiting, that will render all his other remedies nugatory. If in any case of inflammation of the bowels it is probable that they are loaded with faeces, the proper remedy is the repeated injection of warm water as an enema.* VI. Artificial Anus signifies a preternatural communic.ation between the intestine and skin. It may be a consequence of pe- netrating wounds, of abscess or ulceration of the intestines, or of mortification of intestine in strangulated heniia, and it is sometimes purposely made by the surgeon in cases of imperforate anus, in order • Vide Travers on Wounds of the Intestine.^, Lond. 1812 ; Hennen’s Mili- tary Surgery; the ob.servations on the treatment of Enteritis in Ferguson on Puerperal Fever; Griffin’s Medical Problems; and Dr. Holland's Notes and Reflections.