561 CLUB FOOT.—WEAK ANKLES. childhood, it may sometimes he rectified by constantly wearing a proper apparatus. Slight cases in particular, occurring to children after fevers, may generally be remedied, if taken at their very com- mencement, by daily extension with the hands, and friction of stimu- lating embrocations on the muscles, together with tonics, galvanism, change of air, and sea-bathing. But in confirmed cases, it is better at once to resort to Stro- meyer’s operation of di- viding the tendo Achillis. I The rationale of this operation maj’^ readily be comprehended. The tendon being divided, heals by a callus, which renders it longer, and which, while recent, may be stretched to any de- sired length. Thus the mechanical shortening of the muscle is neutral- ized. At the same time, the antagonist muscles, which are always wasted and inert, are relieved from a constant state of tension, and are enabled to resume their natural functions, so that the limb rapidly increases in strength and bulk. The operation is easily performed thus : The tendon is put on the stretch ; and a narrow sharp-pointed knife is thrust through the skin on one side of it; then its edge is turned against the tendon, and made to divide it as it is being withdrawn. If the tendons of the tibialis posticus, or flexor pollicis; or in fact if any others offer an obstacle to bringing down the heel, they may be divided as well. It is often expedient to divide a portion of the plantar fascia, or of the muscles of the sole of the foot. As soon after the operation as it can be done without causing too much pain, some apparatus should be applied to extend the callus and bring the foot into its proper shape. Stromeyer''s footboard is recommended by Dr. Little, but Scarjxi's shoe, as improved by Weiss, seems to be neater and more efficient. It is admirably adapted for counteracting the threefold distortion of talipes varus. II. Weak Ankles.—In this affection the foot is flattened, its arch is sunk, and the astragalus forms a projection below the internal malleolus, rendering the internal Irorder of the foot convex instead of concave. In bad cases the inner ankle almost touclies the ground, and the patient walks with great pain and lameness. This affection depends on a weakness and relaxation of the bones and ligaments. It is sure to be brought on, if weakly children are put upon their legs 0 0