PURULENT OPHTHALMIA. 362 sequel of the acute; or may be caused by some local irritation, such as inverted eyelashes ; or by some derangement of the health. Treatment.—1. All local sources of irritation should be removed. 2. The general health should be amended, in the same manner as directed for chronic inflammation generally. (Vide p. 42.) 3. The distended capillaries must be unloaded by occasional leechings, and be excited to contract by stimulants and astringents, such as the various collyria in F. 140, &c., which should be used with an eye-cup ; or the vinum opii, of which a few drops maybe put into the eye daily. The edges of the eyelids should be smeared every night with weak ung. hydr. nit.; and blisters should be applied behind the ears, if the case is obstinate. IV. Purulent Ophthalmia, or jmrulent conjunctivitis, is the most violent form of inflammation of the conjunctiva, and is attended with a thick purulent discharge, which supervenes in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the commencement of the disease. There are three varieties of it:—1, the punilent ophthalmia of children; 2, the common purulent ophthalmia of adults; and 3, the gonor- rhoeal ophthalmia. The Purulent Ophthalmia of Children, or ophthalmia neona- torum, always begins to appear a few days after birth ; generally, on the third day. Symptoms.—At first the edges of the lids appear red, and glued together ; their internal surface is red and villous, and the eye is kept closed. Then the conjunctiva of the globe becomes intensely scarlet and much swelled, often so much so as to cause eversion of the lids; it secretes a thick purulent discharge, and the child is very restless and feverish. If neglected, this disease may occasion op.acity or ulceration, or perhaps sloughing of the cornea; but it generally yields to early and proper treatment. Causes.—The contact of gonorrhoeal or leucorrhoeal secretions from the vagina during birth ; neglect in washing the natural cheesy secre- tion of the skin away from the eyes; together with exposure to cold and damp, and bad nursing. It rarely affects the children of the upper classes. Treatment.—This disease, if submitted to early treatment, is easily cured by great attention to cleanliness, and by incessantly washing awaj' the discharge with some mild astringent lotion. Either of the weak Collyria (F. 117) will answer; and a large drop of a solution of two grains of nitrate of silver to an ounce of distilled water may likewise be put between the lids once a da}^ with a camel’s hair pencil. The practice pursued at the Central London Ophthalmic Flospital, is to wipe away from the eye with a soft rag and warm water as much discliarge as possible, then to apply with a rag a lotion of four grains of alum to an ounce of water ; after that the edges of the lids are smeared with lard to prevent them from sticking together, and these proceedings are reported every half hour. When the dis- charge is on the wane, the lids may be smeared at night with weak