601 SUBCLAVIAN,—AXILLARY, each been tied four or five times in cases of aneurism of the sub- chiNuan, reaching inwards as far as the scalenus, but with no very happy results.* VII, The Subclavian Artery of either side may be readily tied e.vtemal to the scalenus muscle. The patient should be laid on a table, with the shoulder of the affected side drawn down as far as possible, and the head slightly turned to the other side. An incision must then be made above and parallel with the clavicle, three or four inches in length. It should cut through the skin and platysma, <and should extend from the margin of the sterno-mastoid to that of the trapezius. This preliminary incision may be conveniently made by drawing down the skin, and cutting through it while it is steadied on the clavicle. The superficial fascia must next be divided to the same extent, taking care not to wound the external jugular vein. If the sterno-mastoid muscle has rather a wide attachment to the clavicle, some of its fibres may be divided, to give more room. The suc- ceeding steps of the operation consist in cutting cautiously through the cellular tissue and fascia down to the outer edge of the scalenus muscle. Many surgeons tear through them with a director or blunt silver knife. The point of the finger must next be passed along the scalenus down to the rib, and in the angle between that muscle and the rib, the arterj'- will be found. The needle must be passed round it from below upwards. If tliere is much difficulty with the common needle, that of Dr. Mott or Mr. Weiss, with a contrivance for sepa- rating the point, and bringing it and the ligature round on the other side of the vessel, may be used instead. VIII. The Axillary Artery below the clavicle may be tied by making a semi-lunar incision, with its convexity upwards, from near the sternal end of the clavicle to the anterior margin of tiie deltoid muscle. The skin, superficial fascia, and clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major muscle, are to be divided in succession, avoiding the cephalic vein and thoracica acromialis artcrj% where they pass between the pectoralis and deltoid. The Hap being turned down, a strong fascia which intervenes between the pectoralis minor and sulj- clavian muscles is next to be divided on a director; the cellular tissue and veins covering the vessels are to be turned aside; then the axillary vein being pressed downwards, a ligature is carried round the artery from below upwards. This operation is exceedingly diflicult, and only to be perfonued in case of wounds. It is much more easy to tie tliis artery in the axilla. The arm being widely separated from the trunk, and the fore-ann supinated,an incision three indies in length is made over the head of the humerus, between the margins of the pectoralis major and latissinuis dorsi muscles, but rather nearer the latter. The cellular tissue having been dissected through so as to c.xpose the vessel, and the vein and nerves • The right subel.avian w.is tied in the first part of its course by Mr. Partridge, in tlie King’s College IIo.s])ital, in Keliruary, 1841. The patient died four days afterwards, apparently from irritation of the pneiuuogastric nerve.