HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 81 occasional painful sensation like the sting of a gnat. Sometimes it first appears as a small livid spot on the sore, and near its circumference. In'either case the disease soon spreads, and converts the whole surface of the ulcer into an ash-coloured or blackish slough. The discharge, if previousl}' healthy, is at first diminished in quantity, and sanious ; —but soon becomes profuse, dirt3'-yellowish or brown, and, as Dr. Boggie observes, of a peculiar smell. According to Mr. Blackadder, the hospital gangrene is at first a pm'ely local affection, like the sloughing phagedsena ;—and he says that the constitutional symptoms (typhoid fever, &c.) do not make their appearance before the third or fourth, sometimes not till the twentieth day.* Dr. Henruin's Account.—The following quotations, however, from Hennen, display a slight variation from Mr. Blackadder'’3 account. “ Let us suppose,” says Dr. 11., “ that our wounded have all been going on well for several days, when suddenly one of our most pro- mising patients complains of severe pain in his head and ej^es, a par- ticular tightness about the forehead, loss of sleep, and want of appe- tite, and that these feelings are accompanied with quickness of pulse, and other symptoms of fever ; his wound, which had been healthy and granulating, at once becomes tumid, dry, and painful, losing its florid colour, and assuming a drj' and glossy coat. This is a description of the first stage of our Bilboa hospital gangrene, and if a brisk emetic were now exhibited, a surgeon, not aware of the disease that was about to form, would be astonished at the amelioration of the sore, and the unusual quantity of bile and of indigested matter evacuated by vomiting.”—“ If this incipient stage was overlooked, the febrile ?jTnptoms soon became aggravated ; the skin around the sore as- sumed a higher florid colour, which shortlj'' became darker, then bluish, aud at last black, with a disposition to vesicate ; whilst the rest of the limb betrayed a tendency to cedeina. All these threatening appearances occurred within twenty-four hours ; and at this period the wound, whatever might have been its original shajx, soon assumed the circular form. The sore now acquired hard pro- minent ragged edges, giving it a cup-like appearance, with parti- cular points of the lip of a dirt-yellow hue ; while the bottom of the cavity was lined with a flabby, blackish slough. The rapid progress and circular form were highly characteristic of hospital gangrene.” — “The discharge in this second stage became dark- coloured and fetid, and the pain extremelj^ poignant.”—“ The face of the sufferer assumed a ghastly, anxious appearance ; his ej'cs be- came haggard, and deeply tinged with bile ; his tongue loaded with a brown or blackish fur ; his appetite entirely failed him, and his pulse was considerably sunk in strength, and proportionably accele- rated.”—“The third and last stage was now fast approaching. The surface of the sore was constantly covered with a bloodj' oozing ; and * OI)serv<'vtions on Pliagcdaina Gangrenosa. By H. Home Blackadder. Edinburgh, 1818. 0