BURNS AND SCALDS. 136 The surgeon, however, ma}' make his choice from a most multi- farious list of remedies ; all of which, as Mr. James observes, either possess certain stimulating properties, or else exclude the influence of air and temperature. Thus the burned part may be covered with collodion ; or it may be bathed with tepid oil of turpentine, or alcohol, or mther (which may be warmed by putting them into a teacup, im- mersed in boiling water), and then should be warmly wrapped up in lint or cotton. But if the surgeon prefer the cooling plan, he may apply any evaporating or refrigerant lotion—cold water is as good as any other: pounded ice mixed with lard was recommended by Earle : a poultice of potato or grated turnip is not to be despised ; but what- ever is used, it must be renewed often enough to keep up the sensa- tion of cold. The liniment composed of equal parts of linseed oil and lime-water, or Carron oil (so called because in general use at the iron-works of that name), is a good defensative, but has a most sordid, nauseous odour. Lime-water and milk is an analogous preparation. Soap- liniment is a good stimulant ; but it is more expensive than turpen- tine, and not better. Common thick ivhite paint has, according to Sir C. Bell,* been used at the Middlesex Hospital; but, from its con- taining white lead, its protracted application might be hazardous. Copaiba has been employed at the Exeter Hospital, by Mr. Luscombe, and Treuele by Mr. Greenhow,'h but neither of the last-named appli- cations is to be compared with Kentish’s liniment. Flour, applied thickly with a common dredger, and cotton, very soft and finely carded, are popular applications. They are directed to be laid on the raw surface, and to be per|)etually strewed on in thick layers, so as to soak up the discharge ; but without removing any which is already applied. The good effects of these two substances depend on the same principle. They e.xclude the air, and form a soft covering. But they are apt to become dr}', hard, and irritating, and not un- frequently are converted into a noisome mass of putridity and maggots. Vineyar.—Mr. David Cleghorn, an Edinburgh brewer, very strongly recommends the application of warm vinegar for the first twelve hours, then poultices till suppuration is established, and chalk afterwards.^ Of severe cases.—When a burn is severe or extensive enough to cause danger to life, Kentish’s plan of first bathing the burnt parts with tepid turpentine, then with all possible expedition applying a liniment, composed of tmg. rcsincB 5) ; ol. terebinth. 5 ss, thickly spread on lint, and lastlj', wrapping them up warmly in flannel, seems to be the most judicious. These dressings should be allowed to remain as long as possible, and should not be removed unless there is a profuse discharge or bad smell from the wound. Great care shoulTl be taken, when the wound is first examined, not to strip off the cuticle, whilst taking off the patient’s clothes. * Institutes of Surgery. London, 1S3S. t Greeuhow, Med. Gaz., Oct. 13 ; and Leach, Med. Gaz., Nov. 3, 1838. % Med. Facts and Ohs. vol. ii.