70 ULCERATION. are ragged, loose, and undeiinined ; the surrounding skin red, hot, and swollen ; there is a thin serous, or bloody discharge, and a constant, severe gnawing pain. An ulcer having these characters may always be considered as extending itself. An excoriation is often the first stage of this kind of ulcer ; that is to say, a portion of skin inflames, loses its cuticle, and discharges matter, and the excoriated portion may either heal, or, as we have just observed, may ulcerate. Of course, ulcers spread with varjdng degrees of rapidity. An attack of violent inflammation may cause the death of a considerable portion of the affected tissue in a very short time; then there is said to be a shuyliin;/ ulcer. When an ulcer spreads very rapidly, but regularly and without sloughing of any great portion at one time, it is called pliagedwnic. And when it spreads more rapidly still, not by one fit of sloughing, but by the constant reiterated mor- tification of considerable layers, the disease receives the name of sloughing phagedcena. (’2.) Congestive Ulceration,—This may be ver)' briefly described as it occurs on the legs of old dropsical people. A small jiortion of skin has its capillaries distended with venous blood, whose return is nearly or quite suspended. Some of the serum (with which the cellular tissue is already distended) exudes under the cuticle, raising it into a blister. When this is removed, there is seen a darkish layer of sloughing skin. This, like the last, may spread with ever}' degree of rapidity; but whether a large tract of skin mortifies at once, or whetlier the smallest portion ulcerates, the process is one and the same. (3.) Combination of the hvo Forms.—But it most generally happens that ulceration consists in a combination of inflammation and conges- tion ; that is, in the inflammation of a part already congested, or in- capable, through weakness, of supporting inflammation without loss of life. As this account which we have given of the ulcerative process differs very materially from the doctrines of Hunter, it is necessary to say a few words in proof of its correctness. Now Hunter taught, that ulcers are formed by a variety of absorp- tion, which he denominated ulcerative; the substance of his theory being, that the ulcerating tissue, feeling its want of vitality, causes itself, as a last act of life, to be .absorbed by its own Ijnuph.atics. But to this doctrine it must be objected, first of all, that it is void of all proof. Hunter s.ays th.at it is so, and that he was the first to show it, but nowhere does he attempt to prove it. And secondly, whoever will take the trouble to watch the first be- ginnings .and progress of a spreading ulcer, may have ocular evidence that the loss of substance is through disintegration.* ♦ Tlie former edition.s of this work contained a copious array of arguments on this question, but it is not nocessaiy to rei)oat them now, since it may be comsidorod as settled. For further infonnation, comsult Mr. G.askell’s MS. Jacksonian Prize Essay on Ulceration, in the Librai-y of the College of Surgeons