UOSPITAL GANGRENE. 82 on lifting up the edge of tlie flabby slough, the probe was tinged with dark-coloured grumous blood, with which also its track became imme- diately filled ; repeated and copious venous bleedings now came on —“ at length an artery sprung, which, in the attempt to seciu-e it, most probably burst under the ligature.”—“ Incessant retchings soon came on, and, with coma, involuntary stools and hiccough closed the scene.” * It thus appears, by collating the observations of these two military authorities, that the hospital gangrene may either be a local disease— being produced by local contamination of a wound, and e.xisting for some days before the system at large is affected by it;—or it maj’ be constitutional from the first ;—that is, may be induced bj' the ab- sorption of poisonous miasmata into the blood ; in which latter case the constitutional symptoms precede the local mischief.f In fact, the ordinary constitutional symptoms of hospital gangrene might be in- duced in the nurses and attendants on the sick, from washing the bandages, and from general exposure to noisome effluvia, without being followed by any local affection whatever. Treatment.—The indications in the treatment of all the forms of sloughing phagedcena, are, I, to destroy the diseased surface and its secretions ; — and, 2, to correct the concomitant disorder of the system. The first indication is to be carried into effect by means of caustics. The French use the actual cautery, Mr. Blackadder recommends the liq. arsenicalis. Dr. Boggie the red precipitate, M. Velpeau a lotion of two drachms and a half of citric acid to an ounce of water : J—but the concentrated nitric acid used in the following mode, as directed by Mr. Welbank, seems to be the best. In the first place, the sore must be thoroughly cleansed, and all its moisture be absorbed by lint or tow. If the sloughs are very thick, they may be removed by means of forceps and scissors. The surrounding parts must next be defended with a thick layer of ointment, then a thick pledget of lint, which may be convenient!}' fastened to the end of a stick, is to be imbued with the acid, and to be pressed steadily on ever}' part of the diseased surface till the latter is converted into a dry, firm, and insen- sible mass. This application of course causes more or less pain for the moment, but, when that subsides, the patient expresses himself free from his previous severer sufferings. The part may then be covered with simple dressings, and cloths wet with cold water. “ It is always prudent, often necessary,” says Mr. Welbank, “ to remove the eschar * Principles of Military Surgery. By John Hennen, M.D., F.R.S.E., 3rd ed. London, 1829, pp. 217, et S(q. t Of the various writers on Military Surgery, Pouteau, Hollo, Ollivier, and Copland Hutchinson believe the disease to be primarily local; Thompson and Sir James M'Grigor believe it occasionally constitutional in its origin. Their opinions are quoted in Sir G. Ballingall's Miiitarj’ Surgerj'. t Dr. Boggie's observations on Hosjutal Gangrene, Edinburgh, 1848 ; Velpeau, Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 172.