THE GLANDERS. 166 Mr'. Youatt believes that it may arise if the animal is kept in a poor v state of health, as the climax of constitutional weakness and derange- ment. In man, it is generally produced through inoculation of the matter into a wound. Whether it can be contracted by infection through the miasmata arising from it, without actual contact of the ; matter, is not yet quite decided. There are, however, some grounds t for believing that this disease (like others of a similar character) is ' occasionally propagated by infection in the horse; and that the effluvia are capable of communicating some form of malignant fever, although not true glanders, to the human subject. But the matter from the abscesses or nasal cavities of human beings is capable of communi- cating the disease both to men and animals. A man died of glanders in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, in 1840, and the nurse who attended him inoculated her hand, and died of it also in a very few days; and two kittens which were inoculated from the nurse, became affected likewise. Moreover the blood of a glandered horse injected into the veins of a healthy one communicated the disease, although no abnor- ^ mal appearance could be detected in it by the microscope.* The time : at which the disease appears after inoculation varies from three days to a month. Prognosis.—This,in the acute disease, is highly unfavourable; the chronic, however, is sometimes, although rarely, recovered from. ' Morbid Anatomy.—The morbid appearances are the same both in man and in the horse. Clusters of white granules, or tubercles, or, as Dr. Craigie describes it, of matter like putty or thick pus, are found in whatever tissues the disease has invaded ; in the Schneiderian mem- brane, in the antrum and frontal sinuses, and in the vicinity of the different abscesses. The nasal cavities mostlj' contain a thick broMoi gelatinous secretion, and are studded with foul gangrenous ulcers, from which project fungous clusters of tubercular matter. Pathology.—The proximate cause of the acute glanders appears to be a contamination of the blood with the poisonous matter. This is evident from the early depression of strength and spirits, from the * profuse and foetid perspirations and purgings, from the consecutive or simultaneous appearance of the local suppurations, with their peculiarly offensive and characteristic discharge, as well as from the black and thin condition of the blood, which has lost the faculty of coagulation. ’ —In the chronic forms, the disease, like Mr. Blackaddcr’s cases of hospital gangrene, or like primary syphilis, appears to be at first local; the constitution is affected subsequently. Treatment.—The chief points to be attended to in the treatment of glanders are, to open all abscesses as soon as they fomi; to syringe the nasal cavities with solutions of creosote ; and to support the ^ strength and abate the thirst with wine and soda water. Injections .ic of creosote have cured both the acute and chronic glanders; but almost ^ • Roynault, quoted in Provincial MedicalJournal, 18 th Feb. 1843, from the Report of the French Academy for Feb. 2, 1843.