373 DISEASES'OF TUE IRIS. which are about the size of a small pin’s head ; without any attendant vascularity. There is an increase of aqueous secretion, and the cornea becomes unnaturally conve.x. The iris is rarely implicated, though it maj' look dull because viewed through an opake cornea. When it is so, the pupil becomes sluggish, and in aggravated cases, there is effu- sion of lymph into it and into the texture of the iris. Hypopion (an effusion of puriform fluid into the anterior chamber) may occur. flydrarg. c. creta with James’s powder; and belladonna to the eye. In weakly and scrofulous persons, who are usually the subjects of this disease, the system will requLre support whilst the mercury is given. SECTION VIII.—OF THE DISEASES OF THE IRIS. I. Inflammation of the Iris, or Iritis.—The iris being mus- cular in its structure, and covered with a serous membrane, is exceed- ingly'liable to inflammation of an adhesive character, which frequently involves also the sclerotic, the anterior capsule of the lens, and the deeper structures in the eyeball. ' Symptoms.—In the first stage, the fibrous texture of the iris appears confused, and it loses its colour ; if dark, it becomes reddish ; if blue, it becomes greenish. The pupil, also, is contracted and irregular. In the next stage, lymph begins to be effused ; sometimes in the form of a thin layer, causing the surface to appear rusty and villous,—some- times in small nodules ; sometimes the pupil is filled with a film of it,—sometimes it is poured out in such abundance as to fill the whole cavity of the aqueous humour. The eye displays that kind of redness which arises from vascularity of the sclerotic; that is to say, a pink redness, with vessels running in straight lines from the circumference of the eye, and terminating in a vascular zone around the cornea; but in very acute cases the conjunctiva becomes injected likewise. The patient complains of intolerance of light and dimness of vision, and of more or less burning, stinging pain in the eye; but besides this, there is also a severe aching of the brow and parts around the orbit, coming on in nocturnal paroxysms, as in the rheumatic ophthal- mia, and depending probably on an affection of the orbitar periosteum and surrounding fasciae. Causes.— Iritis may be caused by injuries, or by over-exertion of the eye ; but it more frequently depends on constitutional taint, syphilis, or gout. 1‘roynosis.—Favourable, if the disease is recent and confined to the iris, although the impairment of vision may be considerable; but doubtful, if it be of long duration (i. e. more than a fortnight) ; if there be much deep-seated pain, and especially if there be effusion of lymph behind the iris. Varieties.—Iritis may vary in the degree of acute inflammation which attends it; being active and rapid, attended with bright red- ness, great pain, and fever if it occurs in a robust plethoric subject;