AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. 584 point over the bone, pushes it through the other side of the limb, as low as possible ; then makes it cut its way out upwards and forwards, so as to make the anterior flap. In amputating the right leg, the knife should be passed in behind the saphena vein. It is again entered on the inner side a little below the top of the first incision, passed behind the bone, brought out at the wound on the outside, and directed so as to make a posterior flap in the direction of the dotted line. This sliould be a very little longer than the anterior, because the flexor muscles retract more than the extensors which are adherent to the bone. Both flaps are now drawn back ; the knife is swept round the bone to divide any remaining muscular fibres, and the bone is sawm through. In the same manner flaps may be made from the inner and outer sides of the limb, the surgeon first grasping the flesh, and transfixing it, and cutting a flap on one side of the bone, then passing the knife close to the bone on the other side (without again piercing the skin), and making another flap. II. Amputation .•t.T the Hip-joint was performed by IMr. Liston after precisely the same manner in which he amputated the thigh. The femoral artery being compressed, the knife was entered about mid- way between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the trochanter ; and was carried across the front of the articulation, so as to form the anterior flap. Then the anterior part of the capsular ligament having been cut into, and the ligamcMinn teres and posterior part of the capsular ligament divided, the blade of the knife was put behind the neck and trochanters of the femur, and the posterior flap was fonned. The vessels on the posterior flap were tied first. But this method can hardly be preferable to that of making two lateral flaps ; first, passing the knife completely through the limb on the inner side of the joint, and carrying it forwards and inwards, so as to form a flap of the ad- ductor muscles; then cutting into the joint, and severing the H(ja- mentum teres, and the muscles attached to the digital fossa with a short strong curved knife; and lastly, putting in the knife over the trochanter, and cutting downwards and outwards, so as to make'the external flap. In this manner Mr. Mayo performed this operation in less than half a minute. He previously tied the femoral artery below Poupart’s ligament; but most authorities prefer compressing it during the operation, and tying its cut orifice afterwards. III. Amputation op the Leg. — The rule generally given is, that this operation should be performed as near the knee as possible, unless the patient can aflbrd an artificial foot; because a labouring man would find it very inconvenient to have a long stump trailing after him ; as it would if he rested on the bent knee with the ordi- nary wooden leg. But a wooden leg may be procured, which is light and inexpensive, and which enables the patient to rest on the stump and to have the use of the knee; and tlierefore it is better not to sacrifice more of the limb than can be avoided. 1. Circulur Method. — The artery being under command, as in amputations of the thigh, and the leg being placed horizontally, one