SCIRRUUS. 105 pear. The cut surface has a peculiar semitransparent glossiness, and its colour varies from a bluish-white if the mass is in a firm condition, to a pale dirty fawn or grayish tint, if softer. It is unctuous to the touch. Pressure causes the exudation of the cancerous juice, clear and transparent if the tumour be firm, thicker and creamy if of longer j growth. If it have begun to soften in spots, from these pressure may • cause an op.ake pultaceous matter to e.xude, just as the matter does from a sebaceous follicle. Scirrhus is sparingly and irregularly supplied with blood-vessels. It is common to say that it contains numerous white bands intersecting each other;—but these are only found in the female breast, and con- I sist of the lactiferous tubes. In the progress of decay, it softens into a dirty buff-coloured pulp ; .and becomes infiltrated with a creamy liquid. Progress and Termination.—The progress of this disease is twofold. On the one hand, it spreads and successively invades all the 1 adjoining tissues;—.and at the same time the older portions of the morbid growth perish by ulceration or sloughing. At first the tumour is indolent and painless, so that the patient ma}' be for a long time ignorant of its existence; it is also circumscribed and freely moveable. After a time it is affected with fits of severe lancinating pain, which I graduall}' increase in frequency and severitja Then it slowly en- larges ; — loses its distinct- ness, becomes blended with the adjacent parts, and ad- heres to the skin and to the I parts beneath it. At last ’ the deslmctive stage com- I mences. Portions of the I tumour soften down, and I form irregular abscesses; the ! skin ulcerates or sloughs,— I and thus an ope.n cancer is (formed. This ulcer enlarges i in every direction; its edges 1 are thick and jagged; — ‘ sometimes undermined and i inverted; sometimes swelled i and everted. The surface i is t.awny or ash-coloured, and eaten into irregular hollows. The dis- I charge is thin, sanious, fetid, and irritating,— and there is an almost t const.ant burning pain. Sometimes a feeble attempt is made towards I reparation;—pale, flabby granulations are thrown out, and a portion I of the sore cicatrizes for a time. In some few cases, the whole of the I diseased growth has sloughed out, and a permanent cure has followed.* But in general the ulceration spreads, the neighbouring glands or » Travers on Malignant Diseases, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xv. p. 213.