INGUINAL HERNIA. 401 Malgaigne, Bull. Gon. do XlidTap. 1839. hernia, the neck of the sac is dragged down towards the mesial line, so that all distinction is lost. 2. Hydrocele may be distinguished from hernia by its beginning at the bottom of the scrotum ; by its being semi-transparent and fluc- tuating, rind preventing the testicle from being clearly felt (whilst the cord can be distinctly felt above it); and by not dilating on coughing. Whereas hernia begins at the top of the scrotum ; it is not transparent; does not fluctuate; does not prevent the testicle from being clearly felt, although it obscures the cord ; and dilates on coughing. But hernia may and does often co-exist with hydrocele, the former begin- ning from above, the latter from below. Moreover, a hernia consisting of intestine greatly distended with flatus, has been known to be as transparent as a hydrocele. 3. Hydrocele of the Cord, if low down, may be distinguished by its transparency and fluctuation; but if high up, it may extend into the abdominal ring, and receive an impulse on coughing, and the diagnosis be very difficidt. But as a hernia may be concealed behind this kind of tumour, the rule, luhcn in doiiht, operate, should be acted upon in case of symptoms of strangulation. 4. Varicocele (or cirsocele), which signifies a varicose enlargement of the spermatic veins, resembles hernia, inasmuch as it increases in the erect posture, and perhaps dilates on coughing; but it may be dis- tinguished from hernia by its feeling like a bag of worms ;■ and al- though, like hernia, it disappears when the patient lies down, and the scrotum is raised, still it quickly appears again, if pressure be made upon the external ring, though that pressure would effectually prevent a hernia from coming down again. 5. Lastly, a testicle that has not come down through the external abdominal ring into the scrotum, has been frequently confounded with a huhonocele, or small hernia in the inguinal canal; and has been com- pressed with a truss, to the great pain and detriment of the patient. A little care and attention will prevent this mistake. Treatment.—1. Inguinal hernia, if reducible must of course be kept up with a truss. Care must be taken not to let the pad bear against the spinous process of the pubes, or the spermatic cord. Malgaigne found that out of two hundred cases in which a common truss was applied, there was disease of the cord or testicle in sixty-five.* Various plans have been proposed for the radical cure of this hernia. Most of them consist of measures for producing the adhesive inflam- mation in the sac, so as to obliterate its cavity; but since mere obli- teration of the sac is no remedy for deficiency in the muscular parietes of the abdomen, they are not likely to answer, and we have omitted them in this edition. The most feasible plan consists in pushing a fold of integument up as far as possible into the neck of the sac, securing it in this inverted or invaginated position by means of two sutures (both ends of a ligature being passed from within the invagi-