357 DISEASES OF THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. VIII. Ptosis signifies a falling of the upper eyelid from palsy of the third nerve. Sometimes it is a precursor of apoplexy, and is at- tended with headache, giddiness, and other signs of congestion in the head, which should be treated by bleeding, purgatives, mercury, and blisters. Sometimes it is an accompaniment of that form of amaurosis which arises from organic cerebral disease; and is attended with dimness of sight; a sluggish dilated pupil; and more or less strabis- mus ; the eye being turned outwards and downwards because the external rectus and superior oblique are the only muscles unparalyzed. If it occurs without any assignable cause, and persists notwithstanding the employment of every measure calculated to improve the health, a portion of skin must be snipped out from the eyebrow, so that the lid may be brought into contact with the occipito-frontalis muscle, and be elevated by it. IX. Ancyloblepharon.— Union of the edges of the lids, when complete and congenital (which is very rare), may be removed by an incision; when partial and consisting of a junction of the lids near one angle, which is sometimes caused by cicatrizing ulcers, it is incurable. X. Svmdi.epharon signifies an union of the lid to the globe, fol- lowing some accident that has caused ulceration of both— the introduc- tion of lime, for instance. It is irremediable, if the adhering surfaces are extensive. Very slight adhesions (frana) may be divided; but the raw surfaces are too apt to adhere again. XL Tumours, consisting of n<Bvi or wans, when occimring on the eyelids, are to be treated the same as elsewhere. Sometimes thin cysts, or hydatids, containing a watery fluid, grow beneath the loose fold of conjunctiva which passes from the inside of the eyelid to the surface of the eyeball. If that fold be divided longitudinally, they may be extracted by a hook or forceps. A small encysted tumour, containing a gelatinous fluid, sometimes grows within the substance of the tarsal cartilage near the margin, about its centre. It feels at first like a small pin’s head under the skin ; and on everting the lid it may be seen to cause a slight prominence. It should be punctured from within when it has acquired some little size, and when it begins to look bluish about its centre; and the cyst should be lacerated with the pointed end of a probe. XII. Pediculi.—These loathsome insects sometimes lodge about the roots of the eyelashes, and produce an obstinate itching. They are easily killed by any mercurial preparation; but the surgeon ought to be aware of their existence, as they might be mistaken for crusts of dried mucus. .SECTIO.V III DISEASES OF THE LACHRY.MAL APPARATUS. I. The Lachrymal Gland is very rarely the seat of disease. It is, nevertheless, occasionally subject to acute and chronic inflamma- tion—the symptoms and treatment of which will be obvious. It is