354 DISEASES OF TUE EYELIDS. strangulated. When the case is seen sufficiently early after the acci- dent, and the pupil has been prolapsed, belladonna should be applied under the hope of producing dilatation. When the prolapsed part cannot be returned, some surgeons have advised that it be snipped off, lest it irritate the eye ; but in doing so there is likelihood of producing further protrusion. The safer plan is to let it remain ; all that is not required to plug up the opening will very soon be removed by a natural process. It is said that touching the wound in the cornea with caustic, when it is slow in healing, facilitates that process. SECTION II.—DISEASES OP THE EYELIDS. I. Hordeolum, or sty, is a small painful boil at the edge of the eyelid. Treatment.—Poultices or fomentations ; subsequently ung. hydr. nitrat. dibit., to remove any remaining hardness. Aperients, and afterwards tonics, and alteratives, are always necessary. II. Ophthalmia Tarsi is an inflammation of the edge of the eyelids, with disordered secretion of the Meibomian glands—so that the eyelids stick together and become encrusted with inspissated mucus during sleep. It may be acute—attended with great pain and sore- ness,—but in general it is chronic and obstinate, and attended with itching. It commonly occurs to weakly persons with disordered digestive organs. It may lead to ulceration of the ej-elids, loss of the lashes, and subsequent thickening or inversion of the edge of tlie lids. Treatment.—In the first place, the health, which is always out of order, must be remedied by aperients, alteratives, tonics, change of air, bathing, and whatever other measures may be suitable for each particular case. Whilst there is much heat and swelling, the ej'es should be bathed with an anodyne collyrium, F. 142, and the edges of the lids be smeared with lard at bed time to prevent them from sticking together. But so soon as the bowels have been well cleared, an astringent collyrium F. 140 may be used during the day, and the undiluted unguentum hydrargyri nitratis be applied in very small quantity, with a small camel’s hair brush, to the edges of the lids at bed time for three nights successively. A weaker ointment of the same sort may be used for a longer time afterwards if necessary, F. 163. The lashes should be plucked out if there is any ulceration about their roots. III. Syphilitic Ulcers of the eyelids, if primary, will be known by tlieir sudden appearance and rapid progress in a patient otherwise healthy, and by their not having been preceded by a wart or tubercle, like malignant ulcers. Secondary ulcers will be known by their cop- pery colour and the general cachectic look of the patient, and presence of secondary symptoms in other parts. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilis generally. IV. Trichiasis signifies a growing inwards of the eyelashes.—