95 SCROFULA. /.I, \ t may remain for an indefinite period, till at length the second stage arrives. Then the surrounding tissues inflame, and form an abscess, which contains the tubercle, softened and broken down by the efiTusion of serum and pus. After a time, tlie abscess bursts, allows the tu- bercle to escape, and then, in favourable cases, may contract and heal. Yet sometimes, instead of giving rise to inflammation and abscess, the tubercle undergoes a natural cure. Its softer particles are absorbed and it is converted into a chalky or earthy substance, which may be quiescent for years.* With respect to the origin of tubercle, it appears to depend on a defect in the vitality of the fibriiie of the blood, which, when effused under certain circumstances, is incapable of developing within itself the germ-cells of healthy tissues, and falls into a state of imperfect organization. It is not necessarily a product of inflammation,although it is often found blended with inflammatory exudation of fibrine, and it is more liable to occur in an organ whose structure and vitality are already impaired by inflammation; but it is generally a mere per- version of nutrition. There are two states in which it is found: sometimes in minute masses from the size of a pin’s head to that of a millet-seed, of a lightish gray colour, and semi-trans- parent;—sometimes yellow, opake, and cheesj'. The former variety is called miliury; and is also some- times called crude or unripe, on the supposition that it passes gradually into the cheesy form; but it is more probable that the two foims are distinct from the commencement, and that the miliary has a higher degree of organization, and some kind of vitality. The j^ellow tubercle is sometimes found soft in its centre ; but it is doubtful whether this is through a process of degeneration, or whether, in some cases, it is not originally deposited in a fluid state as a kind of pus and solidified at its circumference by the absorption of its watery constituents.^ •' Under the microscope the miliary tubercle is seen to consist of a mass of granular matter containing nucleated cells, whose envelopes are eillier wanting, or else blended with the granular matter. The yellow caseous tubercle displays the granular matter with minute » Vide Latham’s I.octuros, xii.; Carswell, op. cit., fasciculus Tuhcrcle. t Mr. Giant Calder, Med. Gaz. vol. x.xii. p. 286, and Ur. Kingston, on the Piitholngj of Fubercle in the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. The figure above is JtoisS^our. W translation of Gerber; see also Gruby, ...