159 HTDROPHOBIA. tliose muscles, and arc consequently more liable to excite spasms. It is this circumstance that causes the aversion to fluids, and the alarm at the sight of them, which so generally characterise the disease. At first the spasms are excited only by attempts to swallow fluids;— then they are brought on by the sight or thought of them; or by the motions of spontaneous deglutition;—but as the malady advances, tliey recur in frequent paroxysms,—sometimes spontaneously, some- times excited bj’ the slightest noise or touch. When the paroxysms have become fully developed, they cause the most frightful struggles for breath. All the muscles are convulsed;—the face is black and turgid, and the eyeballs protrude from their sockets. They may come on either during inspiration or expiration, but more frequently the latter;—the patient struggling most violently to expel the air that is confined in his chest through the closure of the larynx. In this disease, as in tetanus, the fatal termination may ensue from suffocation in the middle of a paroxysm, although it more frequently happens during an interval, from exhaustion. (6.) Next to the spasm, the astonishing irrHahility of the surface of the body is the most prominent symptom of hydrophobia. The slight- est impressions on the senses affect the sufferer most intensely. A look, or a sound;—the opening and shutting of the door of his apart- ment;—the motions of his attendants;—the reflection of light from a mirror;—the least impression on the skin; the touch of a feather, or impulse of the gentlest current of air,—are sufficient to bring on the convulsive fits, and are most earnestly deprecated by the patient. (c.) The state of mind is in most cases extremely characteristic. There appears to be a most profound despair;—an utter incapacity for all comfort and consolation;—corresponding with the patient’s haggard physiognomy and restless movements, and his hurried de- sponding tone of voice. lie is also in general unusually talkative and verbose, as thougli he attempted to relieve or hide his sufferings by ceaseless conversation. But in some cases he is possessed with wild maniacal fmy, and is obliged to be confined in order to prevent injury to himself or others ;—whilst, as a contrary exception, it occasionally happens, that if he be originally of a strong resolute mind, he may preserve his composure throughout, and bo to the last endued with sufficient courage to attempt drinking, in spite of the impending horrors of suffocation. Progress and Termi.vation.—When the disease is fully esta- blished, its tonnents are aggravated by extreme thirst; and still more by a peculiar viscid secretion from the fauces, the irritation of which brings on the convulsive fits, and causes a perpetual hawking and spitting — which are very constant symptoms. Not uufrequently there is vomiting of greenish matter mixed with blood. As the dis- I ease advances, the convulsions increase in frequency and violence ; there is constant restlessness and tremor;—the lips and cheeks be- 1 come livid, and perpetually quiver; till at length one fit lasts long enough to exhaust the remaining strength and release the patient