MALIGNANT DISEASES OP THE EYE. 398 time, if at all. Moreover, after the operation, it is very common for some degree of double vision to be complained of. This will be per- fectly intelligible when it is considered that objects are viewed by two eyes of different powers and adjustments. But this inconvenience soon passes off, because the patient learns to neglect the image pre- sented by the weaker eye. SECTION -WII.—OF MALIGNANT DISEASES OF THE EYE. I. SciRUHUS.—True scirrhus begins in the conjunctiva, which after years of supposed inflammation, becomes tuberculated, thickened, and red. The eye is exquisitely tender ; there is much burning or lanci- nating pain, and severe hemicrania. After a time, ulceration occurs, and spreads to the neighbouring parts, and the patient sinks. TreaUmnt.—Extirpation, if it can be adopted before the lids are affected ; if not, the local and general employment of narcotics. II. Medullary Sarcoma is not unfrequent, especially in children. Its most frequent seat is the termination of the optic nerve. The eye is ino- tumour, a bleeding fungus protrudes, the cervical glands enlarge, and the patient perishes. There is not usually much pain before the cornea begins to be distended. . „ , • i • o III. Melanosis.—This substance is occasionally deposited in the eyeball or in the orbit, either alone or in connexion with cancer. There is more to hope for from extirpation of this disease than from that of cancer.t „ ^ r i Treatment.—Much may be hoped from a light nutritious diet, fresh air, occasional leechings, and a gentle course of mercury, which should be kept up for some weeks. By these means the disease, if malignant, accidentally discovered to be blind, and a small tumour of a peculiar metallic lustre can be de- tected very deep behind the pupil. This gradu- ally advances, and ge- nerally appears whitish or yellowish, and lobu- lated, and more or less streaked with blood- vessels. In a space of time, varying from a few months to two or three years, the cornea bursts before the enlarg-