THE GLANDERS. ] G5 (1.) The acute ylanders begins with all the symptoms that indicate the absorption of a putrid poison. There are general feelings of indis- position, lowness of spirits, and wandering pains; followed by fever, furred tongue, great thirst, profuse perspirations at night, great pain in the head, back, and limbs, and tightness of the chest. After some days these symptoms increase; there are severe rigors and delirium, often of a phrenitic character; the perspirations become more profuse, and sour and oft’ensive, and are attended with diarrhoea of a similar character. Then dtjf'used abscesses appear in the form of red swellings about the joints, especially the knees and elbows—the patient com- plains of heat and soreness in the throat; the tongue becomes dry and brown, the respiration more oppressed, and the fever assumes a decidedly low malignant character. Next (perhaps a fortnight from the commencement of the illness, sooner or later in dift'erent cases) a dusky shining swelling appears on the face, especially on one side, extends over the scalp, and closes the eyes. Then the characteristic features of the disease appear;—an offensive, viscid, yellowish dis- charge, streaked with blood, issues from the nostrils; and a crop of large and remarkably hard pustules (compared by some to those of the small-pox, and said by others to be about the size of a pea) appears on the face. In the meanwhile the swelling and inflammation increase;—a portion of the nose or eyelids mortifies;—the discharge becomes more and more profuse and offensive;—the pustules spread, and extend over the neck and body; fresh abscesses form and suppu- rate; the thirst is most excruciating; and low murmuring delirium and tremors usher in death, much to be wished for. (2.) The chronic plunders is characterized by a viscid and pecu- liarly foetid discharge from one nostril, with pain and swelling of the nose and eyes;—and emaciation, profuse perspiration, and abscesses near the joints, from which the patient slowly sinks. (3.) In the acute farcy, the patient receives the poison through a wound or abrasion, which inflames violently, together with the lym- phatics leading from it. Tlic symptoms are attended with consider- able fever, and are generally soon followed by the diffused abscesses, pustular eruption, and nasal discharge, that characterize acute glanders. (4.) In the chronic farcy, a wound poisoned by glanderous matter degenerates into a foul ulcer; the lymphatic vessels and glands swell and suppurate; abscesses form in dift'erent parts of the body; and if the disease is not cured, or does not destroy the patient first, it ter- minates in acute glanders.* Causes.—In the horse this disease may, without doubt, arise spon- taneously, when the animal is subjected to the usual influences that generate putrid poisons ; — namely, insufficient and unwholesome food, close confinement, and ill ventilation, especially on board ship. * Case of Jlr. Turner, Travers, Cun.stitutional Irritation, p. 399; Case of Farcy ending in Acute Glanders in seven months, L'Kxpcriuuco, Jan. 1839.