CANCER OF THE LIP. 413 the deformity is verj' great, so that the child cannot suck, and the mother desires to nurse it, the operation may be performed a day or two after birth. Infants have been known to die of it (just as little Jews die sometimes after circumcision), but such an event is rare. If the patient is a child, his body should be entirely wrapped in a cloth, to prevent struggles ; and the surgeon sits behind him, taking the head between his knees. Then seizing the lip by the corner of the fissure with his left forefinger and thumb, he pierces it with a bistoury at the top of the fissure just under the nose, and carries the instrument downwards, so as to shave off the edge of the fissure, and the rounded comer at the bottom; and it is better to remove too much than too little. This process is repeated on the other side, and the two strips are next detached from the upper angle. When bleeding is checked, the edges are to be brought into most exact union, and to be trans- fixed by two or more hare-lip pins, or long slender needles; over which a twisted suture is to be made. The first pin should be inserted near the angles of the fissure ; and if the labial artery bleed, another should be placed so as to transfix and compress it. The pins should pene- ^trate full two-thirds of the thickness of the lip. They may be removed on the fourth or fifth day; and a slip of adhesive plaster may be drawn from one cheek to the other instead. If the hare-lip is double, both sides may be operated on at once, the middle flap being transfixed by the pins. But care should be taken to push up the middle flap towards the nose so as to render the latter organ more prominent, as it is in general very flat in cases of hare-lip. If one or more teeth project in the fissure, so as to offer any impe- diment to its union, they should be extracted ; and if the bone project much, it may be necessary to remove a small portion of it with the cutting pliers, the soft parts on it having been first divided with the knife ; but sometimes (as in a case related in Cooper’s Dictionary) the projecting bones maj' be pushed so far backwards by means of a kind of spring truss worn daily for several hours, that the soft parts may be brought over them without difficulty ; and when this can be done it is fiu’ better not to sacrifice any of the teeth. Or, if the patient is a ver}' young infant, it is a good plan just to cut through the projecting bone (as recommended by Gensoul) so as to bend it back, to a proper level. In its cartilaginous condition this can easily be done, and then the lip ma)' be made to meet over it, without straining. V. Cancer of the Lip commences most frecpientlyasa small fissure (usually attributed to the irritation of smoking), which gradually de- generates into a foul ulcer, with hardened base and ragged surface. Treatment.—The disease must be extirpated by a V incision—taking I care to include the whole of it—and uniting the wound afterwards like that made in the operation for hare-lip. If, however, the whole I or greater part of the lip be implicated, the diseased parts should be freely removed without any attempt to unite the edges of the incision. The extirpation cannot be expected to be effectual unless performed