321 VARICOSE VEINS. in all recocts the strength should be husbanded, and the constitution assisted in its struggle with this too fatal disease. IV. Vaiux signifies an enlarged and tortuous state of the veins, which are generally thickened, rigid, and divided. into irregular pouches, with their valves incapable of preventing the reflux of blood. This state may be caused by any thing that retards the venous circu- lation ; such as occupations that require a standing posture ; or pres- sure from loaded bowels or the gravid uterus. But there must be an original weakness of structure besides ; because varix often occurs when there is no pressure on the veins to account for it; .and if pro- duced bj' tcmporaiy pressure in healthy people, .always subsides of itself when that pressure is removed; a fact that is familiar to prac- titioners in midwifery. It is most frequently seated- in the lower ex- tremities, scrotum, and rectum. Varicose veins on the leg produce scver.al troublesome consequences. 1. In the first place, they occasion great p.ain, weight, and fatigue upon taking much exercise, or remaining long in an erect posture. 2. The)' frequently cause ulcers or excoriation of the skin. 3. Sometimes a vein becomes exceedingly thin, and bursts, causing a profuse or even fatal hcemorrhage, inasmuch as there might be no valves between the part ruptured and the he.art. 4. Occasional inflammation occurs, with clotting of the blood in the affected vein ; which may perhaps give rise to abscess. Treatment.—This may either be palliative or radical. The p.alliative consists of measures adapted to prevent further enlargement, .and in- duce contraction of the distended veins. If one or two trunks only .are affected, it may be sufficient to apply pieces of leather spread with soap plaster firmly over them ; but if many smaller veins are en- larged, the whole limb should be well supported with a calico or caoutchouc bandage, or laced stocking, which should be applied in the morning, before the patient rises. Friction with lin. hydrargyri; -or with iodine ointment ; the application of tincture of iodine, repe.ated blisters, and electric sparks, have been supposed to accelerate the cure. Friction with a flesh-brush is strongly recommended by Mr. Vincent, but in all c.ascs the friction should be in the course of the blood, not against it; so as not to strain the already weakened v.alves. Constipation should always be provided against ; and when the patient is not taking exercise, the leg should be placed in a raised position. But if these means fail, and the patient is subject to urgent incon- venience, the radic.al cure must be resorted to ; that is to s.ay, the diseased veins must be obliterated ; a proceeding which will have some prospect of success if only one or two large trunks are affected ; but not if all the minor cutaneous veins are enlarged also. There are several ways of effecting this. 1st. Some years ago. Sir B. Brodie recommended division of the vein by subcutaneous section, in the fol- lowing \y.ay. A long curved narrow-pointed knife, like a bistoury, but cutting on the convex edge, was introduced by the side of the y