137 BURNS AND SCALDS. Conslitutional Treatment.—If there is an urgent degree of collapse, the measures directed in Part I. chapter I. are to be diligently adopt- ed. Arrowroot, beef-tea, and other forms of mild nutriment, must be judiciously administered, according to circumstances. Cse of Opium.—If there be much pain, a good dose of opium should be given without delay. For children, nothing can be better than the compound tincture of camphor, of which 5j—5 ij may be given according to the ago. (Each fluid drachm contains ^ of a grain of opium.) Yet it must be added that certain great authorities alto- gether condemn its employment. “ Opium,” says Larrey, “ is in- jurious, whether used externally or internally. Externally, it stupifies the parts instead of exciting them to a salutary inflammation ; in- ternally, if used in considerable quantity, it enfeebles all the organs,! after producing a momentary stimulation.” * Travers objects to it' because of its tendency to produce or increase congestion in the head. He says that “ in small doses it is inefficacious, and in large ones in- jimious.” Notwithstanding these objections, however, it may be given in moderation when demanded by imgent pain. If there be a tendency to coma, it is of course inadmissible ; but then the patient will most probably perish, whether it be given him or not. During the sympathetic fever, the bowels must be kept open by some mild laxative, such as castor oil or rhubarb; and the diet must be uninitating, but not too low. In the event of any inflammatory or congestive attack of the head or chest, purgatives, and leeches or bleeding, must be cautiously employed, according to circumstances. If there is any tenderness under the right hypochondrium, or vomit- ing, or other sign of irritation of the duodenum, the diet should be of the blandest description, and small doses of hyd. c. creta and henbane be administered. Treatment of the remaining Ulcers.—The ulcers resulting from burns are often extremely intractable. The granulations are pale, flabby, and exuberant ; they secrete pus profusely; and many months often elapse before they are healed. The cause of this disinclination to heal is not well understood; but one cause there is which may be easily detected and remedied ; namely, too full a diet, which is often needlessly used on the plea of supporting the strength under the pro- fuse discharge. “ There can be no doubt,” says Kentish, “ that full diet and stimulants, during the suppurative stage, keep up irritation in the system, and cause the immense continued discharge by the ex- posed surfaces of the wounds.”f And it is equally certain that many cases will napidly get well when the diet is lowered and purgatives are administered. There should be no hurry in removing the first dressings, but when they are removed, the succeeding applications must be suited to the state of the ulcer. * Mem. (le CUir. Jlil., t. i. p. 96. t Second Essay on Burns. Newcastle, 1800, p. 64.