CONTUSION AND ECCnYMOSIS. 117 carried into great depths without being suspected, and create long- continued irritation. (5.) Because they are most liable to be followed by tetanus. Treat.ment.—The first point usually mooted in discussing the treatment of these wounds is the propriety of dilating them, and con- verting them into simple incisions, in order to avert the deep-seated suppuration and confinement of matter. But as those evils are inci- dent on the inflammation that supervenes, and as they by no means follow of necessity, an endeavom’ should be made to prevent or miti- gate inflammation, so that there may be no necessity for such a severe measure. In the first place, therefore, rest, low diet, purgatives, cold lotions, and leeches, must be employed, to counteract all excess of inflamma- tion and to cause the absorption of any blood that may be effused in the com’se of the wound. But if, notwithstanding, there should be severe pain, and swelling, and fever, a free incision must be made for the relief of tension and the discharge of matter ;—and the case must be treated in the same manner as a deep-seated abscess.* CHAPTER III. OF LACERATIONS AND CONTUSIONS. SECTION I.—OP CONTUSION AND ECCHYMOSIS. Definition.—A contusion signifies an injury inflicted by some obtuse, blunt object, without perforation of the skin. Consequences.—The consequences of contusion are, (I) a degree of concussion, or benumbing, which may be pretty severe, without much further mischief j (2) some structural injury, which will be fol- lowed by inflammation. The degrees of this structm'al injury are tliree. 1. There may be rupture of the smaller vessels, the blood from which infiltrates the cellular tissue, and causes an ordinary ecehymosis. 2. A large vessel may be ruptured, so that blood is effused in con- siderable quantity, and tears up the cellular tissue, in which it coagu- lates ; or if an artery is ruptured, a false or diffused aneurism may be the result. 3. The tissues may be irretrievably pulpified and disorganised ; as happens from the contact of a spent cannon-ball for instance. Ecchymosis.—When ecehymosis has been produced in the skin or immediately beneath it, there appears a swelling of a reddish colour, ♦ It may bo worth knowing for medico-legal pui-posos that a punctured wound made with a ciretdar conical weapon is not rov.nd ljut linear, as though it had been made with a narrow, Hat instniment.