440 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE X. Use op the Stomach-pump.—The tube of this instniment is to be introduced in the same manner as the (Esophagus bougie. It is usual to place a gag in the patient’s mouth, having a hole for the tube to pass through, in order that it may not be compressed by the teeth. Before pumping out the contents of the stomach, one or two pints of water should be injected into it, and care should be taken not to with- draw qtiite as much as was injected. More water should then be thrown in, and the process should be repeated till it returns colourless. The stomach-pump is by no means so universally efficacious as is popularly supposed. It ought only to be employed in those cases of poisoning by opium, or alcohol, or other narcotics, in which the stomach and nervous system are rendered so insensible that vomiting cannot be excited. For, in the first place, the operation is not free from danger. It is a well-established fact, that a tube may some- times be passed into the trachea of a sensible person without creating anj' peculiar sensation, or exciting cough ; but if the patient be insen- sible, that accident will be much more liable to happen. In fact, a case is on record in which a meddling surgeon, with more zeal than knowledge, did actually pass the tube down the trachea, and inject the lungs with chalk mixture, which he had far better have permitted his luckless patient to have swallowed quietlj'; and Sir C. Bell tells us, that he has seen on dissection both lungs filled with broth, which was intended to have been injected into the stomach. Again, it is known that in one case the mucous membrane of the stomach was sucked into the holes of the tube, and tom into strips,—a thing likely to happen if the stomach is pumped too empty. Besides, this arti- ficial evacuation of the stomach is by no means so efficacious as free vomiting, assisted bj'' plenty of diluents. Lumps of arsenic were left in the stomach, in the very case just cited, in which the mucous mem- brane was tom.* SECTION III.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. I. Foreign bodies in the Laryn.x and Trachea.— It some- times happens that a person who is busily laughing and talking during a meal, suddenl}' rises from table, attempts to put his finger into his throat, speedily turns blue in the face, and then drops down dead. This arises from a piece of food getting into the rima glottidis, a thing 'liable to happen if a sudden inspiration be made through the mouth, as in laughing, when the mouth is filled with food. It rarely happens that the surgeon arrives in time to do any good ; but if he should be case in which it was performed unsuccessfully for the relief of stricture by Mr. Watson of New York, and of two cases in which it was pcrfoimed for the removal of a foreign body, in vols. ii. and iii. of Kanking’s Abstract. * Vide an amusing Clinical Lecture on the abuse of the Stomach-pump, by Professor Watson, in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xvii.; and Roupell's Illustrations of the Effects of Poisons.