nYDROCELE. 545 witli ecchymosis of the scrotum. If the quantity extravasated is small, cold lotions may cause it to be .absorbed. If large, a puncture should be made, and a poultice be applied, for the blood to ooze into gra- dually. Blood may also be extravasated into the spermatic cord from local injury or strains. XI. Hydrocele signifies a collection of serum in the tunica viiginalis. Symptoms. — It forms a pe.ar- * shaped swelling, smooth on its sur- face, fluctuating if pressed, free from pain and tenderness, .and causing merely a little uneasiness by its weight. The epididymis can be felt on the posterior surface of the tumour ne.ar the bottom. On placing a lighted c.andle on one side of the scrotum, the light can be discerned through it. Causes. — Hj'drocele may be a sequel of inflammation of the testis, but more frequently arises without any local cause. It is often sup- posed to follow strains of the loins or bell)'. Diuynosis. — Solid enl.argements of the testis may be distinguished from hydrocele by their weight, solidity, and greater painfulness, and by the absence of fluctuation or transparency. The diagnosis from hernia will be found at p. 481. Varieties.—It sometimes happens th.at the tunica vaginalis preserves its communication with the abdo- men, and then becomes filled with senim, forming a cylindrical tumour extending up to the abdominal ring, to which the name congenital hydrocele is applied. On raising and compressing it, the fluid is slowly squeezed into the abdomen, and slowly trickles down again afterwards. This case is liable to be complicated with a com/enilal or encysted hernia, to prevent which, and to close the communication with the cavity of the peritonseum, a truss should be worn. Sometimes the transparency and fluctuation of hycfrocele are absent in consequence of a thickening of the tunica vaginalis, which may be known, according to Brodie, by noticing that the thickened membrane forms a projection along the epididymis, whereas in solid enlargements of the testicle the projection of tho * Hydrocele. From King’s College IMuseum. N N