DISEASES OF THE 264 the indolent stage, ulceration of the cartilage and hectic come on, and the patient can only be saved by amputation.* V. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis (Nodosity of the Joints) most commonly affects the aged. The patient complains of racking pain in the affected joint, of a rheumatic, gnawing, wearing character, being sonietimes rendered worse by changes of weather, and sometimes by the heat of the bed at night. It is not usually aggravated by pressing the articular surfaces against each other. The joint becomes stiff; its movements limited, and often attended with an audible and sensi- ble grating sound. The muscles around it become wasted, and the limb often shortened. When the hip is the part affected, the body is bent forwards, at an acute angle with the hip ; the step is short, the power of flexing the limb on the pelvis, as in going up stairs, very limited. Sometimes, but not always, this disease is preceded by a definite attack of acute rheumatism; sometimes it follows a bruise, sometimes occurs spontaneously in the elderl}' and bedridden. The morbid ajypearunces display an extraordinarj^ expansion of the articular surfaces, irregular growths of bone around, absorption of the cartilage, whose place is supplied by porcellaneous deposit, shrinking of the cortex of the bones, and atrophy of the ligaments. In the shoulder-joint, which is frequently the seat of this disease, the glenoid cavity has been found greatly enlarged, completely divested of carti- lage, and surrounded with an irregular osseous growth :—the glenoid ligament, and long tendon of the biceps absent, through which the head of the humerus may be drawn up and play against the under surface of the acromion, which may be coated with porcellaneous substance ; the head of the humerus increased in size; flattened, divested of cartilage, its cortex thin, and cancelli soft and porous, and the cir- cumference of the anatomical neck overlaid with an irregular growth of bone;—the capsular ligament generally thickened, but absorbed in certain place.s, and the tendons connected with it almost entirely atrophied and absent. This disease may invade almost any joint, but especially the hip, the shoulder, the joints of the hand, and those of the spine. Opiate embrocations, flannel b.andages, warm douches F. 56, and medicines calculated to obviate tlie rheumatic diathesis are likely to relieve, though scarcely to cure it.-fi VI. Loose Cartilages sometimes commence as little pendulous growths upon the synovia) membrane, which become accidentally detached. They fonn in any joint, but most frequently in the knee. Sometimes loose bony fragments in joints originate in the accidental fracture of one or more of the excrescences common in chronic rheumatic arthritis. Symptoms.—They can be felt when they present themselves at • Brodio on PiscascB of tho Joints, 4th edit. p. 72. t R. \V. Smith, on Fr.acture.s, &c. near Joints; R. Rell, on Diseases of the Rones, 1828 ; Pidwin Canton, on Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis, Ac. Jlcd. Gaz. 1848.