533 LITHOTRITY. although it is true that larger stones have often been successfully- crushed. 2ndly. When, with a small or moderate sized calculus, there is no disease of the kidneys or bladder, and no undue irrita- bility of the urinary passages. This is a point of the utmost import- ance, for, should it unfortunately happen that there is much sensi- bility of the bladder or urethra, an intense amount of irritation may be excited by the operation, and the most severe and fatal results may follow; and it must be acknowledged that when a fatal result does take place in consequence of the operation of lithotrity, it is preceded by a much greater amount of sulfering than if the same event were to happen after lithotomy. If there be a stricture of the urethra at the same time, it will be necessary to dilate the canal fully beforehand, or if this cannot be done, it would be better to employ lithotomy, as the play of the instrument is hindered by any contraction ; in most instances, however, it will be possible to dilate the urethra sufficiently to permit the free use of the lithotrite. An enlarged and diseased prostate is a condition of things which enhances the difficulties of lithotrity, and, in some instances, must prevent its performance altogether—if, for instance, the gland bleeds much when an instrument is passed, and much pain is produced; moreover, it is always a serious complication if the middle lobe is enlarged, because, even if the stone be well crushed, the fragments will be prevented from coming freely away. Sometimes in such cases the patient has not the power of passing his urine; here the fragments should be brought away in the blade of the lithotrite after the calculus has been crushed. The bud residts which may happen after lithotrity are several. Irritative fever of the worst description may set in, accompanied with intense local irritiibility. There will be a constant desire to pass water, and a great difficulty in doing so, and the act will be accom- panied with dreadful sensations of pain; and if these symptoms are not subdued, death will follow. And on examination it will be found that inflammation of the bladder, and ureters, and probably of the kidneys has been produced. In such a case the treatment should be obviously to soothe the parts as much as possible. The patient should be kept perfectly cpiiet—the warm bath, and especially opiate enemata or suppositories should be employed, and plenty of demulcent fluids should be given to drink; if these fail to give relief, and the symptoms still continue, the best thing is to cut into the bladder at once, and remove the fragments which are producing the irritation. A troublesome thing sometimes happens after lithotrity, if a fragment gets lodged in the urethra, and produces retention of urine, and much suffering. It should be either pushed back by a catheter ; or, if this cannot be done, the urethra forceps must be introduced. If this fails, and retention continues, it will be necessary to cut into the urethra and extract the portion of calculus. Ri(jors sometimes take place after the operation, and arc very dis-