(ilR cnLouojvnM. Thoro is no oviiioncc'. as IV. Snow has fully jirovoil, that death is caused hy the entrance of blood or vomited matters into the glottis. The only ontuhttf worth tnentioning is pure atmospheric air; so that the vapour exhaled in the lungs may be ipiickly carried otV. In any case, theri'fore. in which the uaix'otism has been carried to a dangerous degiXH'. the patient should be brought if ]>ossible into the open air. or at least the windows should be opened, and a current be ctxNtted bv fanning. Cold water dashed on the face and chest, is a gi'od ex- citant to the rt'spiratory act ; and if this fails, the breathing must be kept up artificially, and probably a small quantity of blood W taken to relieve the congested lungs. The cases in tchieh the inhalation of chloi-oforni is nsefiil. comprise every surgical manipulation attended with ]vtin. of which it seetns not only to render the patient unconscious, but also to neutralize its depn'ssing power, or power of producing collajvse or sln^ch to the constitution. To lull the jvtin during o]H'rations as well as the smart- ing after them; to lull the jxtin and shock of violent injuries, and of the surgical examination, and setting of fractuu's which follows : to facilitate the ix'duction of hernia' and dishwations. and the ivissing of catheters, these are its chief surgical uses. Ilut its benefits are not confined to the abolition of ixtin ; thert' is gix'at rt'ason for hoping that it renders o|H'rations less mortal ; it enables the surgeon to pnv ceed with his dissection in a more leisun'ly manner; it does away with the scruples of the over-modest woman, to whom the shame of exposure is worse than the pain of the knife, and it circumvents the opposition of the timid and unruly. ('ii.sr.'' in u-hieh it is imipf^ieoNe.—The solitary case in which, so far as the operation is concerned, it is best not to use chlorofonn, is the e,rtiaction of tataraet: after which, as Mr. Haynes AValton has shown, any accidental fit of vomiting, might cause the whole contents of the eyelrall to be forced out. Operations about the mouth admit of its use. as then' is no fear of the blood getting into the glottis ; but the p;itient's head must be turned on one side n'peatedly, to let it run out freely. Full narcotism should be induced before these operations, and it should be kept up as well as it can by inhalation at intervals from a sponge wetted with cold water, on which twenty minims of chloroform have been poured. The vapour may be inhaled by infant.s, or by the aged, with perfect safety, if the process be conducted cari'- fully. The cases in which on gi'neral principles it should be given with hesitation, are those of chronic organic disease of the brain, atrviphy, or dilatation of the heart, and emlwirrassed circulation tlmmgh the lungs. Hut since the shock of an operation is in it.self extremely formidable to jvuients so afi’t'cted. it is probable that a cautious ad- ministration of the an.a'sihetic would diminish the danger instead of adding to it. Kpileptic p;ttients aro liable to have their fits induced by the inhalation. Lastly, no person should ever administer chloroform to himself Moreover it should never be m.ade a plaything, or a lu.xury. 'Ihis,