HERNIA CEREBRI. S.'Jfi Wou?ids of the brain, wliether incised or lacerated, are not of neces- sity attended with any mental or bodily disorder, besides that which arises from the concussion, compression, or inflammation that may accidentally be present. Instances are numerous in which portions of the brain have been lost, without any ill consequences at the time or afterwards. But yet Sir B. Brodie has observed in some cases a greater degree of mental confusion than usually attends concussion, and in others spasmodic twitchings of the muscles. If foreign bodies are embedded in the brain, the danger will be materially augmented. Sir B. Brodie says, that no foreign body, whether a portion of the skull or not, is to be removed, if the re- moval will add in the least to the irritation or injury; but the prac- tice of most surgeons is, to remove them without delay, but with as little disturbance as possible. The treatment of these cases consists in the preventing of inflam- mation ; and in causing tlie wound to cicatrise without the formation of hernia cerebri. SECTION VI. HERNIA CEREBRI, AND MALIGNANT GROWTHS OF THE CRANIU.AI AND MENINGES. Hernia Cerebri.—When a portion of the skull has been re- moved, the brain is liable to protmde through the aperture in the form of a rounded tumour, styled hernia or fungus cerebri. Mr. Guthrie describes two varieties of it. In the first, which occurs within two days, the tumour is composed of coagulated blood, and is caused by hremorrhage into the brain, near its surface. It is accom- panied with delirium and phrenitis, and is generally fatal. The best treatment is, to shave it off level with the surface, so as to permit a free discharge of blood. The other kind of tumour consists of brain itself, infiltrated with lymph from inflammation ; which, if the dura- mater is still entire, causes it to slough by its constant pressure, and then protrudes through the aperture in the skull. As it increases in size, it suffers constriction from the aperture through which it passes, and sloughs; but is speedilj' succeeded by a fresh growth of brain and of fungous granulation, which undergoes the same processes, till the patient dies of the irritation. Treatment.—In order to prevent this tirtnour, a well-regidated pres- sure, just sufficient to afford a natural support, should be made upon the brain by means of compresses of soft lint oiled, in aU cases when the skull is perforated. If the fungus has already protruded, the best application is liq. calcis, with which the lint may be wetted. If this fail, and tlie degree of pressure requisite to prevent increase cause symptoms of cerebral oppression, the part should be shaved off level with the scalp, and any further growth be prevented by the liq. calcis and lint, and pressure, as before. Malignant Growths occasionally spring from the dura-mater, and in their earlier stages produce various symptoms, whose intensity