581 AMPUTATIOir OF THE THIGH. and preventing too great loss of blood. This may be done, either by pressure with the hand, or with the tourniquet. Pressure with the hand on the main arterial trunk, if effected by a stead}' assistant who can be trusted, is sufficient in most cases; and if the limb is amputated so high up that the tourniquet cannot be applied, there is of coiu-se no choice; the femoral artery must be compressed against the ramus of the pubes. The common tourniquet consists of three parts; a pad, to com- press the artery, which should be firm, narrow, and flattish ; a strong band which is buckled round the limb ; and a bridge-like contrivance, over which the band passes, with a screw, by turning which the bridge is raised and the band tightened. The pad should always be placed so as to compress the artery against the bone. The ad- vantage of this instrument is, that it compresses the smaller arteries as well as the principal trunk; its disadvantage is, that it arrests the venous circulation, and causes a greater loss of venous blood ; where- fclg,^it_ should n^yerjie constricted tightly until the incisions are just commencing. This, like other amputations, may be performed in two ways — either by the circular that is, by cutting round the limb from without towards the bone; or by theJia}) operation—that is, by trans- fixing the limb, and then cutting outwards. The flap operation is the favourite with the rising generation of surgeons ; it certainly can be performed with much more facility; and it enables the surgeon to select a flap where he pleases, so that when the flesh on one side of the limb is destroyed by disease or injury, the end of the stump may be covered with a flap taken almost entirely from the sound side, and a greater length of limb may be preserved. It affords too a greater certainty of preserving a sufficiency of flesh to cover the bone ; and it enables the muscles to be more easily retracted, and the bone exposed for the ap- plication of the saw. It entirely avoids the difficulty, also, which sometimes occurs in the circular operation, of retracting the skin when it has become adherent to the parts beneath. But, as Sir C. Bell ob- serves, the grand rule in all cases is, to save integument enough to cover the muscle, and muscle enough to cover the bone, and not to scrape off the periosteum. And if these things are done, it requires ingenuity to make a bad stump. In this, as in all other operations, we suppose the patient to be under the influence of chloroform ; unless there is some rare and special rea- son to the contrary. 1. Circular Method.—The surgeon stands on the outer side for the left leg, and on the inner for the right; so that he may use his left hand to grasp and steady the part which he is to amputate. The artery must be compressed by one of the methods before described, and an assistant must grasp the limb with both hands, so as to draw up the skin as high as possible. Then the surgeon commences by putting his arm under the thigh, and makes an incision at one sweep completely round the limb, through the skin and fat down to the