201 CHAPTER II. OF THE SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. % I. General Hypertrophy.—The skin may grow into pendulous flaps or ridges, which, if inconvenient, are to be removed by incision. II. Warts or vegetations, consist of elongated papilla of the cutis vera, clothed with cuticle. When they are situated on an exposed part of the skin, the cuticle is thick, and they are generally dr}’, hard, and insensible; but when they are situated at the upper part of the thigh, where two surfaces of the skin are in contact, their cuticle is thin, and they exude serous discharge, which is contagious. Causes.— They maybe produced by the irritation of diseased secre- tions; and hence frequently follow gonorrhoea and syphilis, especially in women; but although their secretions are contagious and may cause 1 fresh crops of warts to appear, yet they have nothing of a syphilitic I nature, and require no mercury. They often come on the hands of I children, and disappear without any Assignable cause. Treatment.—If their shape permit, they may be snipped off or tied; •—or if in very inconvenient situations (as about the finger nails), I may be cut out;—but the surface from which they grew requires some 1 astringent to be frequently applied, in order to prevent their repro- I duction. If they cannot be removed in this manner, they may be ( destroyed by stimulants, of which the following are the most generally lused; viz. one drachm of muriatic acid with three drachms of muriated I tincture of iron; liquor plumbi diacetatis; liq. hydrarg. oxymur ; . liq. arsenicalis; liq. aluminis comp.; nitrate of silver; equal parts of powdered savine and verdigi'is; one drachm of arsenic dissolved 1 in half an ounce of nitric acid; and the juice of garlic, spurge, or 5 sumach.* III. Corns are growths of thick cuticle, and are produced when tthe skin, situated over some projecting point of bone, is irritated by ffrequent pressure or friction. It need scarcely be said that their tusual seat is on the joints of the toes, and that tight boots or shoes aare their usual cause. They are divided into two kinds, the hard aand the soft. The hard are situated on the surface of the foot, where ithe cuticle can become dry and hard; the soft between the toes, where the cuticle is soft and spongy. We must observe, liowever, tthat what are commonly called sqfl corns between the toes, are not corns, but excessively irritable fungous warts, and consist of a growth ■ from the cutis vera, not of a mere thickening of the cuticle. Accord- ing to Sir B. Brodie, when a corn is completely formed, a minute bbursa is developed between it and the cutis vera.f * Brodie, Lecture on Mortification, Med. Gaz. vol. xxvii. t Brodie, Lecture on Conis, Med. Gaz. vol. xvii. p. 775 ; Key on Bunion, '•Guy’s Hosp. Hep. vol. i. p. 4IG.