133 BURNS AND SCALDS. 5. When a main artery is wounded, and gangrene is commencing and spreading beyond the toes or fingers, amputation should be per- formed just above the level of the wound. CHAPTER V. OF THE EFFECTS OF HEAT, BURNS, AND SCALDS. The degree of heat which can be borne without inconvenience or injury, depends very much on the conducting power of the medium through which it is applied. Thus, Sir C. Blagden and Ur. Fordyce * ascertained by experiment, that the body may be exposed to air (whose conducting power is almost a nullity) of a temperature above 212° without injury; whereas the contact of a solid or fluid oi the same heat would instantly cause burning. Again; some parts of the body will from habit tolerate a degree of heat that would be extremely painful to others. Diag.n'o.sis.—It is sometimes important in medico-legal investiga- tions, to determine exactly the manner in which burns have been inflicted. Those caused by the contact of heated liquids are generally diffused in their extent, and equable in their severity; they are also generally superficial ; for the heat of boiling-water is not sufficient to cause the death of the cutis, unless immersed in it for some time; although that effect may be readily produced by boiling soap or oil, or other liquids whose point of ebullition is high. Burns caused by some sudden and intense heat of short duration,—as by the ignition of tur- pentine or gunpowder, or the inflammable gases, are more diffused, uniform, and regular than those occasioned by the contact of heated substances—and all the hair is burned off smoothly. After burns from the explosion of gunpowder, the injured parts are said to be of a peculiar bluish white. The irritation of these injuries is often aggravated by the numerous grains of gunpowder that escape combustion, and are projected with such force as to stick into the skin. In many cases, caused by the explosion of gas in coal mines, particles of the coal-dust adhere to the skin in the same manner. Division.—The most useful division of burns, for practical pur- poses, is the three-fold one which has existed from time immemorial, into, 1st, burns producing mere 2ndly, those causing vesica- tion ; 3rdlj', those causing death of the pari hunicd. 1. The first class are attended with mere superficial inflammation, terminating in resolution, with or without desquamation of the cuticle. * They found that they could boar the contact of floated spirits when cooled down to 130 degrees; of oil at 129; water at 123; quicksilver at 117. Vide Phil. Trans, vol. l.xv.