64 ERYSIPELAS. at regular short intervals. The best apparatus should be used for ventilation that can be devised. The feather beds and mattresses shoidd be baked, and the bedsteads be taken to pieces and exposed to the air, at least once a year. No patient should be put into a bed just quitted by another. The patients should be obliged, when practi- cable, to use the warm bath and soap; and wlien not able to do so, their feet should be washed often. On the outbreak of the disease, all the inmates who can be moved, should be sent away; the infected ward be shut up, and the erysipelatous patients put into separate small rooms. Surgeons and pupils should not come to the bed-side, espe- cially to a midwifery case, immediately from the dead-house or dis- secting-room, still less from a case of erysipelatous disease. The dressings and bandages used in any case should be destroyed, and tow, which may be destroyed when once used, should be suWituted for sponge, which would be used again and again. Moreover, in the case of foetid and profusely suppurating wounds, it would be far better for the patient so affected, and for the others likewise, that he should be put into a hut, or tent, or cottage, than be allowed to remain in a crowded ward. SECTION II.—OF THE CUTANEOUS AND CELLULO-CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. Definition.—Diffused inflammation of the skin, or skin and cellu- lar tissue, with a tendency to spread. . Symptoms.—The cutaneous or simple erj'sipelas is known by red- ness of the skin, which disappears momentarily on pressure ;—consider- able puffy swelling from serous effusion into the cellular tissue;—and severe stinging, burning, or smarting pain. The redness is generally of a vivid scarlet hue; but it will be faint and yellowish if the disease is attended with much debility, or if it affect the eyelids, scrotum, or other loose cellular parts, where it always produces a good deal of serous effusion. In the cellulo-cutancous, or phlegmonous erysipelas, the redness is deeper, and sometimes dusky or purple, and it is scarcely, if at all, dis- pdled by pressure ;—the swelling is much greater, and is hard, brawny, and tense;—and the pain is not only burning, but throbbing. Conslihdioncd symptoms.—Both varieties are ushered in with shiver- ing, headache, pain in the back, nausea, and bilious vomiting ; and both arc attended with fever, which will vary in its type according to circumstances. It may be of an ardent, sthenic, infiammatorj" cha- racter, requiring free blood-letting, if the disease affect a young robust countryman ; but it soon assumes a low typhoid character, if the patient is old and weak ; or if the disease were contracted in some close, foul, ill-ventilated hospital, or if a large portion of cellular tissue has begun to slough. When erysipelas is situated on the face and scalp, it will be liable to be complicated with delirium in its earlj-