.364 GONORRIIfflAL OPHTHALMIA. both by contact with the piHulent secretibn, and by exposure to its vapour, if many persons affected with the disease' are crowded to- gether. VI. Gonorrhceal Ophthalmia is the most violent form of puru- lent conjunctivitis. The symptoms are essentially the same as those of the last species; but the disease seems to begin in the ocular rather than in the palpebral conjunctiva, the chemosis is greater, the discharge thicker and more abundant, the constitutional disturbance more severe, and the cornea much more apt to slough. Fortimately one eye only is usually affected ; not both, as in the Egj^ptian variety. Cause.—This disease arises without doubt from the application of gonorrhceal matter from the urethra to the eye. Prognosis.—This is very unfavourable. The sight of the affected eye will either be lost, or excessively impaired, unless treatment be very early and efficacious. Diuynosis.—If a patient applies with violent conjunctivitis, and there - is a suspicion that he has a clap and has infected his eye, the surgeon should insist on an examination of the penis, however strongly the patient may deny the fact of his having any disease. Consequejices. — The most frecjiient and detrimental is sloughing of the cornea., which is said to be caused by the constriction of its vessels by the chemosis. The sloughing generallj'^ occurs C[uite suddenly; the cornea may be clear in the morning—cloudy and flaccid in the evening —and by the next morning it may have burst; and this change may supervene at anj' time from the second d.ay of the disease till the last. After this has occurred, the swelling of the lids subsides, the discharge diminishes and becomes thinner, and the p.ain greatly abates. If the slough is very small, the iris may protrude, and close the aperture, imperfect sight remaining,—but generally the greater part of the cornea perishes, and all useful sight is lost. Treatment.—There are three sets of measures which may be adopted in this very hazardous disease; viz. antiphlogistic remedies, scarifica- tions, and astringents. Experience has shown that it is not possible to check this disease entirely by antiphlogistic measures, such as bleeding, purgatives, calomel and antimony, &c.; and that although they ought to be used in proportion to the violence of the fever with wdiich the local disease is attended, yet that they cannot be trusted to entirely. If the patient applies, at the very commencement, the use of a nitrate of silver lotion twice a day, and fomentations of poppy, with one grain of alum to the ounce, together with low diet, antimonj^, and confinement to bed, may suffice to check the disease. But if the disease has reached its height, and there is great fever and headache, with full bounding pulse, it will be right to bleed freely, to purge, .and to administer nauseating doses of antimony, and Dover's powder, at bed-time, to allay pain. The patient must be kept in bed in a d.arkened room, with the head elevated, .and on low diet. But if these measures, combined with the local applica-