155 CHAPTER X. OF THE EFFECTS OF POISONS GENERATED BY DISEASED ANIMALS. SECTION I.—OF HYDROPHOBIA. SvN.—Li/ssa, Rabies Contagiosa, Definition.— Hydrophobia is a disease caused by inoeulation with the saliva of a rabid animal, and characterised by intennitting spasms of the muscles of respiration, together with a peculiiU’ irrita- bility of the body and disturbance of the mind. SvJiPTOMS IN THE Dog.-—Since prevention is better than cure, it is verj' desirable that every medical practitioner should know the symptoms of rabies in the dog, and most especially the earliest symp- toms. These, according to Mr. Youatt, are “unusual sullenness, fidgetting, and continual shifting of posture.” The dog retreats to his basket or bed for several hours, where he lies curled up, with his face buried between his paws. Then he becomes fldgetty, continually changing his resting-place ; appears clouded and suspicious in his countenance, and gazes strangely about him ns he lies on his bed. A peculiar delirium is also an early symptom : the dog perhaps springing up and giving an angry bark at some imaginary object. “ I have again and again,” says Mr. Youatt, “ seen the rabid dog start up after a momentary quietude, with unmingled ferocity depicted on his coun- tenance, and plunge with a savage howl to the end of his chain.” But if his master speaks to him every fancied object of terror disappears, and he crawls towards him with his usual expression of attachment. Then comes a moment’s pause,—a moment of actual vacuity,—“ the eye slowly closes, the head droops, and he seems ns if his fore-feet would give way and he would fall; but he springs up again, everj^ object of terror once more surrounds him, he gazes wildly around, he snaps, he barks, and he rushes again to the end of his chain to meet his imaginary foe.” The amount of ferocity di.splaj’ed by rabid dogs, varies extremely. Some there are whose fury knows no bounds, and who if loose rush out, biting every man and beast in their way. Others, on the con- trary, not only cannot be made to bite, but in the very earliest stage of the disease, show an increased fondness, and are perpetuall}' trying to lick their owner's hands and face. Manj’ cases are on record of persons who have been thus infected through some accidental scratch or abrasion, and hence when rabies has been detected in a dog, it is most important to inquire whether any persons have scratches which he may have licked, and if so they should be cauterised at once. Another early and constant symptom of rabies, is change of voice.