317 CHAPTER VIII. OF INJURIES AND DISEASES OF VEINS. I. Wounds.—The hemorrhage from wounded veins is not in general dangerous, unless from some large and deep-seated trunk, or from a large varicose vein on the leg. It may in ordinaiy cases be restrained by pressm'e and a raised position. But if there is any difficulty in the matter, it will be necessary either to apply a ligature, (which, however, should always be avoided if possible,) or to keep up unremitting pressure on the bleeding point with the finger. The latter practice was resorted to “ in the case of his Excellency Wil- liam Prince of Orange, who, in his hurt by the Spanish boy, as my Lord Bacon relates, when the internal jugular was opened, could find no way to stop the flux of blood, till the orifice of the wound was hard compressed by men’s thumbs, succeeding for their ease one after the other, for the space of forty-eiglit hours, when it was hereby stanched.” * II. Inflammation of Veins, or Phlebitis, is a very impor- tant disease, of which there are two forms :— I. The Subacute, or circumscribed, or localized, or that unattended with any general contamination of the blood ; and, 2. the acute, or diffused, or erysijKlaious, in which there exists the condition called pyolimmia, or poisoning of the blood with pus, or some other morbid secretion. The Subacute Phlebitis is not usually a serious disease, and generally affects the veins of the legs, especially if varicose. The symptoms are tenderness and hardness of the affected vein, more or less swelling around it, oedema of the parts below, and painfulness of the limb generally. After it has subsided, the vein is usually felt hard as a cord ; because, as was explained in a previous page, inflam- mation of a blood-vessel causes the blood within to coagulate, which, with the lymph that is effused, renders it impervious. It sometimes, although rarely, causes a circumscribed abscess in the vein, or in the cellular tissue around it. Yet cases sometimes occur, in which phlebitis begins in this comparatively harmless and local form: with no shivering, and no constitutional disturbance ; but with mere oedema and obscure ten- derness ; but which, after a time, proceed and terminate with all the symptoms of the more dangerous variety. The phlegmasia dolens so common after child-birth, is an instance of subacute phlebitis of the large veins of the lower extremity, with perhaps inflammation of the lymphatics likewise. Treatment.—Rest, with the limb in an elevated position; leeches ; * Turner, op. cit. vol. i. p. 346.