AMAUllOSIS. 392 forehead with cajeput or croton oil, or with an alcoholic solution of veratria. 3. Sympathetic,—(a) Amaurosis not unfrequently supervenes on an attack of jaundice. If there be evidence of congestion in the head, as there frequently will be, blood should be taken by cupping, whilst the abdominal disorder should be removed by appropriate measures. (i) If there be headache, vertigo, foul tongue, disagreeable eructa- tions, tumid belly, and other evidence of abdominal congestion and disorder, emetics, repeated once or twice a week, blue pill or hyd. c. creta, in small doses every night ; and purgatives, such as senna, aloes, .and rhub.arb, with soda, magnesia, and ipecacuanha, till the secretions are set to rights, followed by tonics and counter-irrit.ants, are the re- quisite measures. In similar cases, some foreign authors recommend the use of Schmucker’s or Richter’s resolvent pills, F. 185. I'ur- pentine or the housso should be given if there be signs of worms. (f) Amaurosis sometimes arises from irritation of the fifth pair of nerves. If it fol- low a wound on the forehead, the latter should be dilated, or if it have healed, the cicatri.v should be cut out. Tumours of all sorts near the eye, and carious teeth, should be re- moved. 4. From Poisons.—Amau- rosis is li.able to be induced by certain narcotico-acrid poisons, such as belladonna, and espe- cially by tobacco, whether administered in poisonously Large doses by accident, or used slowly and frequently in the form of ^gff or smoke. If the amaurosis persists after the ordinary effects of the poison have been got rid of by the usu.al measures, the cold shower b.ath, counter-irritation, electricity, and sm.all doses of mercury are the remedies most likely to be of service. Am.aurosis is also one of the set of paralytic affec- tions which lead m.ay induce. The treatment must he conducted on the same principles. 5. Organic.—These cases are the most hopeless. If the disease * This cuts exhibits atrophy of the left optic nerve and right tractus opticus consequent on amaurosis.—From the Middlesex Hospital Museum. t ■