INDOLENT ULCER. 74 1 plication wliicli at first soothes the pain will soon lose its good eflfects, and then become positively hurtful. IV. The Weak Ulcer has large, pale, flabby, and insensible granulations rising above the margin of the skin, and showing no disposition to cicatrize. The constitution in which such an ulcer occurs is torpid and weak. Treatment.—The indications are to augment the vital forces of the granulations, and to restrain their exuberant growth, by a liberal diet and tonics, and mild stimulating applications. Such are—fine dry lint, which by itself is an excellent stimulant; or lint, dipped in a lotion of sulphate of zinc, or of sulphate of copper, or of nitrate of silver, or the ung. Ii3’dr. nit. (F. 173). The foi-mation of a crust or scab with the lunar caustic, on Mr. lligginbottom’s plan, maj' be often resorted to with advantage. In some cases a scab niaj' be formed bj' covering the sore with powdered rhubarb. At the same time, pressure bj' means of strips of plaster, or compresses, and bandages, are necessary to prevent languor of the circulation ;—especially if the muscles are wasted and flabby. If the patient is young and weaklj', with great coldness and blueness, and tendeniess to oedema in the extremities, the limb may be immersed in tepid salt water for fifteen minutes twice a day. V. 'J’he Ln’dolent Ulcer has its surface smooth and glassy, and of a pale ashj' colour, like a mucous membrane. Sometimes, however, it displaj's a crop of weak fungous granulations. The edges are raised, thick, white, and insensible; the discharge scant}'and thin. The most frequent situation of these ulcers is the small of the leg, and they are almost exclusively met with amongst the lower orders. They are often stationary for a great length of time ; but from any slight cause of irritation, may enlarge rapidly by ulceration or slough- ing ; and even when they have made considerable progress in healing, the granulations and cicatrices that have been months in forming may perish in a few hours from some constitutional disturbance or loc.al injury. Treatment.—The general rules are, to promote constitutional vigour by good diet and tonics, to excite the loc.al actions by various stimu- lants, and to support the venous circulation in the affected part. Tlie following is perhaps the best plan of curing these ulcers. A number of pieces of lint, thoroughly'soaked in the nitric acid lotion, should be laid on the sore, and be covered with a warm soft poultice. These applications should be changed twice a day, and be continued till the discharge becomes healthy, and granulations begin to arise. During this time the patient should be confined to bed and be purged. Afterwards, when the surface is clean, the following mode of dressing may be adopted. First, some pieces of lint, saturated with the nitric acid lotion, or zinc lotion, or with some other stimulating substance, . should be laid on the sore. Then strips of adhesive plaster, about 1^ .1 inch wide, should be applied two-thirds round the limb, frojii an inch below the ulcer to an inch above it; and in applying each strip, the r 1