FEJIOnAL.—GLUTJEAL. G05 way, they should be turned aside. The fascia lata is now to be divided for about two inches, and the sartorius to be gently drawn outwards. The artery may now be felt, and when the sheath and the cellular tissue over it have been raised with the forceps and divided by cautious touches with the knife, (held with its flat surface towards the artery,) the point of the aneu- rism needleisto be gentlyinsinuated between the artery and the vein ( which lies behind it). The needle should be passed from the inner side. Before finally tightening the ligature, the artery should be com- pressed, to see whether the pulsa- tion in the aneurism ceases, as there might be a double artery, or some other irregularity in the course and distribution of the vessel. The Fe.mohal artery may also be tied in the middle third of the thigh, where it is covered by the sartorius, by cutting on the inner edge of that muscle and tuming it aside, and then slitting up the strong fibrous sheath whicli en- velopes the artery at that part; but this is a much more difficult opera- tion, and it has no commensurate advantages.* XV. The Glutasal artery may be tied by placing the patient on his face, with the toes turned in- wards, and making an incision from an inch below the posterior spinous process of the ilium, and an inch from the sacrum, towards the great trochanter. This incision should bo about four inches long. The fibres of the glutajus maximus having been cut’ through or separated to the like extent, and a strong fascia beneath having been cut through, the vessel will be found emerging from the upper part of the sciatic notch. The Sciatic artery may be ♦ “When the skin and fascia have boon divided," says Mr. Fergusson, “and some muscular tibres exposed, it may be doubtful to which muscle they belong —whether to the sartorius or the va.stus If to thu latter, they will seem to run towards the inner side of the thigh ; if the former, they will pass nearly in its long axis.”—Practical Surgery, p. 312.