1R3 DIAGNOSIS OF CHANCEE. fallible. The surest test is that of inoculation, as proposed by Ricord. If some of the pus of a real chancre, taken luhilst it is extending and heforc it bcf/ins to heal, be inoculated into the skin of the thigh, it will produce a regular chancre there, after the manner we have already described (p. 180). It may be right to adopt this practice in some ew cases when the existence of chancre in the urethra is sus- pected; or when the characters of a sore on the penis are undecided ; or when there is a sore suspected to be sj'philitic on the face, or any other unusual part; or when it is wished to test the pus from a bubo; but the sore produced by inoculation must Ije destroyed by lunar caustic, or by nitric acid, as soon as its character is decided, else it may give both surgeon and patient a great deal of trouble."* Affections that may de jiist.aken for Chancre.—This is the most convenient place for describing the nature and treatment of various aflections that may be mistaken for chancre. 1. Gonorrhaia externa, or balanitis, is an inflammation of the surface of the glans and inside of the prepuce, with profuse purulent dis- charge, and excoriation of the cuticle. It generally affects dirty people with long prepuce, and is caused either by the acrid secretions of the part, or by contact with unhealthy secretions in the female. Sometimes, however, it occurs to cleanly people whose health is disordered. The thick profuse discharge, the peculiar smell, the superficiality of the excoriations, and their appearance immediately after connexion, dis- tinguish this complaint from chancre ; and a little opening medicine, common soap and water, and any mild astringent lotion will suffice to cure it. Lime-water is the best lotion if there is much inflamma- tion, and a grain of corrosive sublimate to an ounce and a half of lime-water if there is not. If the cure is not effected in two or three days, the excoriations should be touched with nitrate of silver. Some- times balanitis is attended with very great inflammation and fever, and with phymosis, from the great swelling of the prepuce; and the pain may be so severe and gnawing, as to make the surgeon uncertain wliether there is not a phagedainic ulcer concealed by the foreskin. The thick discharge, and the pain being general and not confined to one spot, form the chief means of diagnosis; and repeated injection of warm water and astringent lotions under the foreskin are the remedies. 2. Minute aphthous-lookiny points, sometimes in clusters, sometimes surrounding the glans ; some of them healing, whilst others break out. They are totally devoid of pain; and although they ma}' last a long time, do not lead to ulcers. They are best treated by lilack wash or mere lime-water, or lotions of ary. nit. or cujtr. sulph. and alteratives and aperients. .3. Herpes prcsputialisf begins with extreme itching and sense of heat. The patient examining the part, finds one or two red patches, * It must bo recollcctcil tli.at inoculation, if iierfonncd from a sore that is healing will proiluce no pustule; but yet that sore may bo of venereal origin, and would liave yiehled an infectious matter at an earlier jieriod. ° ’ t Bateman on Cutaneous Diseases, 5lli ed. p. 238. Burgess’s Cazenave, p. S.S.