446 WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. before the humanity of the surgeon, Dr. Douglass of Havre, was re- warded by a return of respiration.* XI. Artificial Respiration is required in .all c.ases of sus- pended animation, whether from drowning, external injurj"^, noxious gcTses, or n.arcotic poisons. It may be performed by passing a pipe through tlie mouth, or a male catheter through the nostril, into the glottis ; or by simply putting a pipe into one nostril, and closing the mouth and the other nostril, and blowing through it. But it is a better phan to use a small pair of bellows, putting its muzzle into one nostril. The operator should be careful to force the air into the lungs with very great gentleness, and to press the larynx against the spine, so that it may not go down the msophagus. If the larynx has been crushed bj' a rope, or by a violent blow, it may be necessary to per- form tracheotomj', so as to impel a current of air directly into the trachea, but not otherwise. SECTION IV.—SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE NECK AND THROAT. I. Wounds of the Throat .are generally made with inten- tion of suicide, and are extremely dangerous, no less from the im- portance of the parts injured, than from the despondency of the patient. Treatment.—The general indications are, 1st, to arrest hiemorrhage; 2ndly, to obviate difficulty of breathing; 3rdly, to prevent inflamma- tion of the trachea or cliest. In the first place, any .arteries th.at are wounded must be tied, and haemorrhage from large veins must be restrained by pressure with the finger, kept up as long as may be necessary. The patient should be put to bed in rather a warm room ; and as soon as aU oozing has ceased, but not before, his shoulders should be raised by pillows, and the head be bent forwards, and be confined by a b.andage passing from each side of the nightcap to the shoulders. Plasters are inad- missible, and so are sutures, except in the cases that will be alluded to presently. If the wound penetrates the trachea or larynx, it should be covered with a loose woollen comforter, or, after the first week, with one of Jeffrey’s respirators, if it can be nicely adapted. The patient should not be kept too low; and if the pharynx or ccsophagns is wounded, a common, large-sized, elastic catheter m.aj' be passed, through which nutritive fluids c.an be injected by means of .an elastic bottle. But if during the inflammatory stage the attempt causes great irritation, it maj' be necessary to employ nutrient enemata merely. At all events, no tubes should be passed through the wound for that purpose. The great thirst and dryness of the fauces, experienced in these cases, may in some measure be mitig.ated by sucking a wet rag. If the patient finds great difficulty in expectorating through the wound. ♦ Med. Gaz. 23rd December, 181G.