G17 CHLOnOPORM. touched without winking, the surgeon may begin. When the opera- Kbh rs~~lairly cohimenced it is not necessary to keep up so great a degree of narcotism ; having secured the patient against the first plunge of the knife, he may be kept in a sufficient state of uncon- sciousness by giving him one or two inspirations of the vapour, when- ever his countenance exhibits any signs of feeling. At every operation the management of the chloroform should be committed to one competent person, whose duty it should be to attend to it, and to nothing else. If the surgeon has no assistant he should himself thoroughly narcotize the patient before he begins his incisions. The administrator should be chiefly guided by the j)upil, fpr if there is any dilatation of that it_showsThat the degree of nar- cotism is far tbddeep~;~~b~y th~c'sh’nsnjiiity of the surface of the eye when touched or blown upon; and bj’ the bnuithnig, which may be som- rrolent but not interrupted or too slow. The pulse affords no certain in^catton : yet if there be extreme feebleness it must be attended to. "The class of paiien/s on whom chloroform acts mosT pleasantly are young children, in whom, says Dr. Snow, it scarcely ever causes either mental excitement, or any of the struggling which is not unusual in adults just before insensibility ensues. Moreover, immunity from pain is obtained with less narcotism of the nervous centres than in adults, and it is hardly ever necessary to carry the effects of the vapour beyond the second, or the commencement of the third degree. The very aged arc long in recovering their consciousness after inhalation. The more feeble a patient is, the more quickly and pleasantly does the vapour generally act; if verj' strong and robust, considerable mental excitement is apt to occur in the second degree of narcotism, and strug- gling, or rigidity of the muscles, in the third. Accidenis from Chloroform.—The commonest is vomiting, which, however, is of very little consequence. If it occur during the in- halation, the patient’s head must be turned to one side to let the vomited matter escape. If very troublesome afterwards, a little brandy and water, or a very small dose of opium, may be adminis- tered. The patient, if chilly, should be wrapt up warmly. If kept quiet in bed after the operation the patient will complain little of gid- diness or headache. The prolonged insensibility, and other frightful symptoms which affected some persons, especially j'oung women, after inhalation, when the remedy was a new one, were probably due to hysteria. Death from chloroform, when occurring suddenly after a short inha- lation, arises, without doubt, from the sudden entrance of so large a quantity as to paralyze the heart at once and kill by syncope. When it occurs after a more protracted inhalation, as in T. Wakley’s e.x- periments on the lower animals, the mode of dying is by coma. First, the intellectual and animal functions of the nervous system :ire abolished; then the refle.x function which presides over respiration; the breathing becomes slow; the lungs congested ; and at last breath- ing stops entirely, leaving the heart struggling for a short space.