ANEURISM. 308 or into a serous cavity; or into a vein, with, of course, a fatal disturbance of the circulation if the vein is large ; or into the cellular tissue of a limb; or it may cause death through its pressure on the trachea or oesophagus ; or through the pain and irritation created by its compressing nerves or interfering with the abdominal viscera, with- out bursting. We may observe, that when an aneurism opens into a mucous canal (as shown in the preceding figure), it is usually by a small round ulcerated spot, not by a slough, as in the skin; and when it bursts into a serous cavity, it is generally by a crack or fissure. Spontaneous Cure. — The cure of aneurism depends on the ces- sation or diminution of the circulation through it; for when this is the case, the blood within it coagulates, fonuing a solid tumour, which gradually wastes. In some few fortmiate cases a spontaneous cure occurs. 1st, If the circulation is languid, the blood in the sac may coagulate of its own accord, and the aneurism be converted into a firm tumour. In some cases, however, the sac does not become quite obliterated, but the coagula become thick and firm enough to resist further distension. Nature generally endeavours to aid this process by enlarging the collateral circulation, and by setting up the adhesive inflammation so as to thicken the arter}' and obstruct its current. It has happened, in a few luckj' cases, that a portion of clot has been detached from the interior of the sac by some accidental violence, and has effected a cure by blocking up the opening into the aneurism. 2ndly, The aneurism has sometimes sloughed, or has been involved in a large abscess ; and the artery participating in the inflammation has become obstructed by effusion of lymph, or by coagulation of the blood in it. 3rdly, The artery has become obliterated by an accidental pressure of the aneurism upon it; or by the pressure of blood escaping from it on its bursting into the cellular tissue. Causes.—The predisposing cause of aneurism is some constitutional tendency to arterial disease, which may perhaps be created by in- temperance, syphilis, or the abuse of mercury. The exeiting cause may be, strong emotion of the mind, violent exertion of the bodjs or local injury. Men are very much more subject to it than women ; and it is especially a disease of middle life, being most frequent between the ages of thirty and fiftj’, although it has occasionally been met with even in children of seven and eight.* Situation. — The most favourite situation of aneurisms is in the aorta, near the heart ; but if aneurisms of the aorta are excluded from our consideration (since they are not to be relieved by any surgical interference), we shall find that of all the arteries of the limbs, the popliteal is the most frequently affected. Thus, out of 179 cases of spontaneous aneurism collected by Lisfranc (not including any of the aorta), there were 59 of the popliteal artery; 26 of the femoral in the groin, and 18 in the femoral at other parts ; 17 of the See cases in Syine's Contributions.