441 LARYNX AND TRACHEA. promptly on the spot, he ought to search the pharynx with his fingers, to ascertain whether the obstruction can be removed; and if not, he ought, to perform laryngotomy immediately ; and to pass a probe up into the lar^mx through the wound, so as to push the foreign substance back into the mouth. When a foreign substance has passed the rima glottidis, and has got into the trachea, it will produce difl’erent symptoms according to dif- ferent circumstances. For, in the first place, it may become impacted in the ventricles of the larynx or upper part of the trachea ; in which case it will probably produce violent spasmodic cough and difficulty of breathing, together with a fixed pain referred to one particular spot— a croupy sound during respiration, which may be heard by the stetho- scope most distinctly at the seat of that pain ; and loss of voice. In the second place, the foreign substance may be loose in the trachea. In this case, the violent coughing and sense of suffocation produced by its first introduction generally subside for a time ; but every now and then there are violent fits of coughing, and of spasmodic difficulty of breathing, during which the substance may be heard by means of the stethoscope, or perhaps may be felt by the finger to be forcibly impelled against the upper part of the larynx. Thirdly, the foreign substance may have passed into one of the bronchi (generally the right), where perhaps it may be detected by causing a whistling or murmuring sound; and it will very probably be dislodged and driven upwards, when the patient coughs. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish the symptoms produced by a foreign body in the larynx or trachea from those of croup or laryngitis. But the surgeon may generally pretty confidently decide that a foreign body is present, if the symptoms came on suddenly during a meal; or perhaps the history will be that the patient was playing with a but- ton, or cherrystone, or some similar body in his mouth, and that he chanced to fall down, when the button disappeared,and the symptoms came on directly afterwards. Moreover, in these cases, expiration is generally more difficult than inspiration, whereas it is usually the re- verse in croup. Besides, when there suddenly occurs a fixed pain, and a fixed whistling sound in the larynx or bronchi, without any other symptoms of croup, the case must almost of necessity arise from a foreign body.* Treatment.—When any foreign substance has entered the trachea, if it be moveable, let the patient keep in bed, as quiet as possible, and under the influence of slight narcotics for a few days. Thus possibly the substance may become coated with mucus, and be expectorated spontaneously. Should the symptoms, however, be urgent, recourse must be had to one of the two operations next described. II. Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy. — The former of these operations is most quickly and easily performed, and is to be preferred * Vide an interesting paper by Mr. C. Hawkins, and fmotlier by Mr. Travers, . jun. on this sulqect, Med. Chir. Trans, voi. xxiii. and a notice of a paper read by Sir B. Brodie on Mr. Brunei’s case, Med. Gaz., Juiy 7tli, 1843.