424 TUMOUnS OP THE LOWER JAW. moved a minute too early. Usually, I take one or two stitches away on the third or fourth day, and on the fifth or sixth remove them all. It is better, I think, to take them out at intervals, than all at once.” Fissures in the anterior part of the bony palate may be diminished by lateral compression during growth ; and, after puberty may be palliated by means of an obturator of gold or caoutchouc. If the obturator used be too large, it may cause absorption of all the bones, or add greatly to the evil it is intended to cure.* Otherwise, relief may be attempted by means of an operation first proposed by Dr. .1. M. Warren, of Boston. This consists in paring off the tissues from the bones on each side of the fissure, in two lateral flaps, and stitching these together in the mesial line.f VI. Tumours of the Lower Jaw may, like those of the upper, be either simple or malignant. Their distinctive characters have been before alluded to. Free extirpation is the only remedy. If the tumour is large, and situated near the middle of the bone, it must be exposed by making an incision from each angle of the mouth down to the bottom of the chin; a tooth must be extracted on each side of the tumour; next the bone may be sawn half through perpendi- cularly on each side, and then be divided completely by the straight cutting forceps, one blade being passed up on the inner side of the bone, and the other placed in the groove made by the saw; and, lastly, the parts attached to the inner side of the bone must be cautiously divided; namelj% the digastric, mylo-hyoid, genio-hyoid, and genio-hyo-glossus muscles. When the attachments of these muscles are divided, care must be taken not to let the tongue retract into the throat, which might push back the epiglottis and cause sulfo- cation. To prevent this, a ligature may be passed through the tip of the tongue, by which it may be held forwards during the operation, and which may be fastened to the twisted suture by which the wound is afterwards to be closed. If, however, the disease is not so ver}' extensive, it may not be necessary to sacrifice the whole thickness of the bone, but a hori- zontal portion of the base of the bone may be saved, which will pre- vent the chin from falling in after the operation. In order to effect this, the bone may be sawn downwards for half its depth on each side of the tumour, and a horizontal cut be made below it; and then the diseased portion be separated completely with the cutting pliers. If a lateral portion is to be removed, an incision should be made from the lower lip to the chin, and along the basis of the bone, to its posterior angle. Thus a flap is formed, which may be turned up so as to furnish a good view of the tumour, and then the bone is to be divided as before described. • See a case related by Mr. Paget, Med. Gaz. N.S. vol. v. p. 104. t For further information, vide Fergusson’s Practical Surgery, 2nd edition, and his pajier in Mod. Chir. Trans, vol. xxviii.; Medical Times, No. 388, and 389; and Lond. Journ. of Medicine, Jan. 1849.