324 NEUROMA. A nerve may also recover its functions after a small piece of it has been removed. Sometimes, however, the divided ends, instead of uniting, shrink and become bulbous, as they do in a stump after amputation.* II. Partial division.—If a nerve is partly divided, leaving some fibres on the stretch, as sometimes happens in venesection, very dis- agreeable consequences may ensue ; such as immediate severe pain, recurring in paroxysms, and shooting in the course of the nerves; violent spasms, or palsy of the limb; fits of epilepsy ; and great disorder of the digestive organs. The same symptoms may also ensue • if a nerve has been bruised, or compressed, or stretched ; or if it has been divided, and its extremity has become implicated and compressed in a cicatrix. This not unfrequently happens after amputation, and produces excruciating pain, with spasm and retraction of the muscles of the stump, causing it to become conical. Treatment.—If these symptoms come on immediately aiiev a wound, so that it is probable that a nerve has been partly divided, an incision may be made so as to divide it completely. If, however, they ap- peared whilst a wound was healing, it is the best plan to remove the cicatrix entirely. But it unfortunately happens, that neuralgic pains, when once established, do not always cease, even when the cause which produced them at first is removed. Very disagreeable conse- quences, in the shape of palsy, or numbness, or spasm, are sometimes caused if a nerve is subjected to pressure, as, for instance, the pressure of crutches on the axillary nerves ; or from a blow, such as people often meet with on the ulnar nerve above the elbow; or from a violent stretch. Leeches, blisters, and the application of mercurial or tartar emetic oint- ment, or of opiate or belladonna plasters, or inoculation of a concen- trated solution of morphia under the cuticle, are the chief remedies. III. Inflammation of Nerves is known by pain and tender- ness, with fever if acute. Sciatica is an example of rheumatic inflam- mation of the sciatic nerve. Purgatives, alkalis, colchicum, the iodide of potassium, guaiacum, and other anti-rheumatic remedies, must be used according to circumstances. IV. Neuroma, a tumour formed by the infiltration of a nerve with lymph, and its organization into cartilaginous or fibrous tissue. The bulbs which form on the ends of amputated nerves are instances. The painful subcutaneous tumour is another instance.^ These tumours, and any others that may exist in or about the trunks of nerves, may produce every conceivable symptom of nervous irritation. Iodine paint, mercurial friction, counter-irritation, and the other means of ex- citing absorption, maj' be tried ; but if they fail, as they rnost likely will, the tumour must be extirpated, provided that it be not intimately embedded in the substance of a large nerve, such as the sciatic, the division of which would paralyse a limb. * The bulbous ends of a nerve which had not united have been cut out, but without avail. Vide Sir G. BalUngall’s Mil. Surg., p. 249. + Vide p. 200.