590 AMPUTATION OF THE FINGEP.S. If, however, the joint cannot he bent, this operation may be per- formed thus; The surgeon holding tlie phalanx firmly, with its palmar surface upwards, first passes his knife horizontally across the front of the joint, the flat surface towards it, and cuts out the anterior flap; then divides the lateral ligaments and the remaining attachments with one sweep of the knife. 2. Amputation at the second joitit of the fingers or thumb may be performed in the same manner. 3. It is always expedient to save as much as possible of the fore- finger and thumb; consequently, in cases admitting of it, a flap may be made from the soft parts in front; those behind may be divided by a semilunar incision, and then the bone may be sawn through, or be cut with bone nippers. 4. Amputation of a f.nt/er at the metacai'jial joint may be effected by making a semilunar incision on one side of the prominence of the knuckle, from a quarter of an inch beyond the joint, to the middle of the digital commissure on the other side of it. The finger being then drawn to the other side, the extensor tendon is cut through, and the point of the bistoury is passed into the joint, and made to divide its ligaments. This will allow the head of the bone to be turned out, so that the bistoury being placed behind it may cut through the remain- ing attachments and make another flap. This operation may also be performed by making an incision on one side of the joint (as in the method just described), and then bringing it across the palmar surface, and round the other side, to terminate where it began. The tendons and ligaments are now to be divided, and the head of the bone turned out. The digital arteries must be tied, and after bleeding has ceased, the wound may be closed by confining the adjoining fingers together. It must bo recollected, that the situation of this joint is full half an inch above the lines that divide the fingers from the palm. 5. Amputation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb is performed thus : 7'he thumb being separated from the fingers, an incision must be carried from the centre of the commissure between it and the fore- finger, down to the articulation with the trapezium. The incision should be inclined rather towards the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Tlie thumb being then forcibly abducted, the blade of the bistoury is to be cai'ricd through the joint (which, it must be recollected, lies obliquely in a line extending to the root of the little finger); the head of the bone is to be forcibly dislocated towards the palm; the knife is then made to cut its way out, so as to fonn a flap of the skin and muscles which constitute the ball of the tlnmib. When the metacarpal bone of the thumb alone is diseased, it should, as Mr. Fergusson advises, be extirpated alone, and its pha- langes should be preserved. The bone sliould be exposed by means of an incision along its radial margin ; then its articulation with the phalanges should be divided; and lastly, it maybe turned out and separated from the trapezium; taking care not to wound the radial artery where it passes between the first and second metacarpal bones.