LUPUS. ■204 growth than cancer of other parts ; that it is much less liable to be attended by malignant disease of the viscera ; and that it is much less likely to return after thorough extirpation. This is rationall}’ accounted for by the researches of Hughes Bennett, who shows clearl}' that many of the so-called cancers of the lip, are in reality destitute of the true cancerous structure. Speaking of one case he says, “ the disease presented all the characters of cancer to the naked eye, con- sisting of a scirrhous tumour composed of white carcinomatous looking matter externally, with gray encephaloid matter internallj'. A mi- croscopic examination showed that the latter was altered muscular tissue, and that the former was an hj'pertrophy of the epidermis. The epidermic alteration consisted externally of numerous large epi- dermic scales, mixed with fusiform corpuscles, and a number of round cells with round nuclei, such as are frequently found in certain fibrous growths.” Yet true cancer does occasionally occur in the skin, the filamentous tissue of the dermis being hypertrophied, and expanded into nodules, and infiltrated with cancer cells. Treatvicnt.—Since it is often impossible to decide by anything but microscopical examination, whether a case be truly cancerous, or only cancroid, and since in the latter case extirpation is a cure, the disease should be removed either by the knife or by the chloride of zinc, or arsenic as caustics. Arsenic may also be administered internally. The simgeon should deal in the same manner with moles (oblong patches of imperfectly organized skin with black matter in its inter- stices), small vascular patches, and other congenital imperfectiuns of the skin, if at any time they seem inclined to spread and become irritable, because it is possible that they might become the nidus of malignant growths. VIII. Lupus—a destructive rilceration of the skin commencing with tubercular inflammation. There are two forms; 1st, the genuine lupus, herjxs Mcdcns, or noli me tamjere; and 2ndly, the herpes, or lupus non emdens. I. Jjupus exedens.—A portion of the skin of the face (mostly on or near the ala nasi) inflames, swells, and becomes of a bright red tint. The swelling frequently occurs in the fonn of one or more tubercles; not however indurated like scirrhus. The inflamed surface sooner or later becomes excoriated, and secretes an ichorous matter which dries into a scab. After a time, a painful, foul, excavated ulcer forms;— variable in its progress, sometimes stationary, or partially cicatrizing ; but, in the end, destroying the flesh of the nose and cheek, and causing caries and exfoliation of the bones; till the patient, a horrid spectacle, dies worn out with pain; his eye dropping from its socket into the chasm made by the destruction of the cheek. This affection mostly occurs to adults; especially if of weakly scrofulous habits, vitiated by intemperance and gross feeding. ‘2. The lupus non exedens is a milder form, and attacks scrofulous children. It begins with shining tubercles, which ulcerate; but the