DISSECTION WOUNDS. 151 the axilla, or in the wound, or elsewhere. The most speedily fatal case on record, that of Mr. Elcock, was of this variety. He died in forty hours from the receipt of the dissection wound; and the nervous commotion and mental despondency which he suffered were even parallel to those of hydrophobia. Dr. Bell, of Plymouth, died in the same manner. 2. In another (and by far the most numerous) class, the general order of sjTiiptoms is the same as we described in the text; that is, there are, at first, general depression and fever;—subsequently, diffuse cellular inflammation begins in the shoiflder and axilla, and spreads down the side of the trunk. 3. In a third class, diffuse cellular abscesses occur in several remote parts—the knee or elbow, for instance, as well as in the axilla as in the case of IMr. Shekelton.* 4. In other cases the wounded finger inflames violently, and sup- purates or sloughs;—or the diffuse inflammation begins at the wrist, and extends up the arm. 5. In a fifth class, inflammation of the lymphatic vessels may be combined with the peculiar depressing effects of the absorption of poison; as in the case of Mr. James, narrated in his work on in- flammation. Ter.mination and Consequences.—If the case do not terminate fatally at an earlj'period, extensive and foul collections of matter form in the parts that have swelled;—and abscesses continue to gatlier under the skin, or between the muscles of the trunk and limbs: and from these the patient may slowly sink;—or, if he survive, his exist- ence may be a mere burden; one or more of the fingers may perish by gangrene, the arm may remain stiff and useless, or the seeds of con- sumption or dropsy may be left in the system. In some cases, severe and protracted pains of a rheumatic character have followed the ordinary train of sj'inptoms. Both Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Abemcthy suffered in this manner, and the same symptoms have been observed by iMr. Stafford.+ Morbid An.\tomy.— The morbid appearances .are those of the various grades of diffuse cellular inflammation. The following maj’’ be quoted as a fair description of an .advanced stage.^; The cuticle cover- ing the affected side of the trunk, vesicated and wrinkled;—the cutis mottled and gangrenous in patches;—the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in some parts distended with serum, in others softened and turgid with pus ; the tissue between the muscles of the trunk, as well as that which separates the different muscular fasciculi, also softened .and • The cji.se of Dr. Bell may bo found in Butter on Irritative Fever. Those of Mr. Elcock and Mr. Shekelton are quoted at length (with many others) in Traver.s on Constitutiomal Irritation. See also a paper by Mr. Adam, in the Gla.sgow Medical Journ.al, August, 1830. t Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. 1836. J Abridged from the case of Mr. Young, in Duncan’s paper in the Edinburgh Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. Quoted also in Travers, op. cit.