FRACTURES OP THE PATELLA. 255 medied by placing him on his back, at the end of a fortnight, with his knees bent up and supported by pillows. Every surgeon must determine for himself what mode of treatment to adopt, but must never forget that care and attention are requisite for the success of any plan. Supposing a case of very oblique fracture of the thigh, with great difficulty in preventing overlapping of the fragments ; it is a good plan to cover the whole limb from the foot to the hip with soap-plaster spread on calico ; then to extend it to its proper length with the pulleys, and to cover it with plaster of Paris ; keeping up the exten- sion till the plaster lias become hard.* If both thighs are broken, a fracture-bed should be employed ;—or, if the surgeon has not one, the patient should be placed on his back, with four splints to each thigh, and his knees drawn up, and supported by pillows. ^\^len the loicar end of the femur is fractured obliquely downwards and forwards, the sharp end of the upper fragment is apt to pierce the extensor muscles, and the lower fragment to be dragged down into the ham by the gastrocnemius. Treatment.—Firm extension must be kept up with the double in- clined plane and splints ;—and the knee must be well bent, to relax the gastrocnemius. (7.) Fracture of the Condyle into the knee-joint mostly happens to old persons, and not unfrequentlj' proves fatal. If much comminuted, or if compound, amputation will be necessary. Otherwise, the limb should lie placed straight, so that the head of the tibia may keep the fractured parts in their places ; lotions and leeches should be used to prevent inflammation ;—and afterwards a pasteboard splint. Motion should be commenced in five weeks. XII. Fracture of the Patella is generally transverse, and is caused by sudden contraction of the extensor muscles attached to it;— as, for instance, when a person who has his knee much bent under him, and is in danger of falling, tries to save himself by throwing the body forwards. Symptoms.—Inability to straighten the knee, and separation of the fractured parts, which can be readily felt, and which is increased by bending the knee. Treatment.—The limb must be laid straight, with a well-padded splint behind the thigh and leg, in order to keep the knee quite motionless ; and the patient's body should be raised to a half-sitting posture, in order to relax the rectus muscle. Evaporating lotions and leeches must be used, till pain and swelling abate ;—then, and not till then, some apparatus may be employed to keep the broken surfaces as nearly in contact as possible. The most common consists of one pad, or strap, or bandage, placed above the patella, and a * A c.ase treated in tliis way by Mr. Bond, of Glastonbuiy, will be found in Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations, p. liJl.