CHLOROFORM. G12 introduce his anaesthetic agent into the practice of genuine surgery, and on the 16th of October, administered the ether in the Massachu- sett’s General Hospital at Boston, to a patient from whom Dr. J. C. arren removed a tumour in the neck ; and on the day following to a patient from whose arm a tumour was extirpated by Dr. G. Hay- ward. From that time the use of the novel remedy spread rapidly in all directions ; but before pursuing its history we must drop a passing word of regret at its disastrous effects on the fortunes of its discoverer. Alorton endeavoured to make a mj'stery of the means he employed, and to secure to himself, by patent, the exclusive right of administer- ing it. But Jackson seeing that the thing promised to be both famous and lucrative, now laid claim to the discovery as his own, on the plea that certain information which he had given Morton respecting the properties of ether, had directly led Morton to the use of it. To pacify Jackson, and bar any claims he might hereafter set up, he was allowed a share in tlie patent which was taken out. Nevertheless he sent a communication to the French Academy, in which he suppressed jMorton’s name, and claimed the whole discovery as his own. ]\Iean- while the patent turned out to be good for nothing, and Morton, who had neglected his business, and injured his health by the excitement of his discovery, was left with his pockets empty, and even the bare honour of the invention almost wrested from him.* From America the news of the discovery was conveyed to England in a communication from Dr. Bigelow, of Boston, to Dr. Francis Boott, and it was received most cordially.+ On the 21st of December, 1846, Mr. Liston tried the ether with the best possible results in a case of amputation of the thigh, and of evulsion of the toe nail. On the 31st, Mr. Fergusson used it in the King’s College Hospital, and in less th:in a fortnight it was tried by almost every surgeon in the kingdom ; whilst the medical periodicals for a long time were crowded with fresh instances of its powers in alleviating suffering, and with descriptions of various apparatus for administering the vapour. It was employed in ever}' variety of surgical operation, from the C;esarian section, in which it was used by Mr. Skey, at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, on the 25th of January, 1847, down to tooth drawing, and in all kinds of painful examination or manipulation, as for instance in passing a catheter through a painful stricture ; it was used in cases of strangu- lated hernia and of dislocation, and in the obstetric operation of turning, in order to diminish the resisPince of the muscles ; in various eases of painful and spasmodic .affections, such as tetanus, neunalgia, and spasmodic asthma ; it was employed to tranquillize the insane, to detect feigned disease, and to diminish the sufferings incidentid to par- turition, It was used too on infants, on the aged, and on animals. * See a Report of the Trustees of the Massaclmsctfs General Hospital, with a History of the Ether Discovery, in Littell’s Living Age, Boston, 18th March, 1848. t Vide Lancet, January 2, 1847 and all the medical periodicals of that year, jxtssim.