281 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. of the bone can be felt in the axilla, if the limb be raised; although such an attempt causes great pain and numbness. Diagnosis.—There arc three fractures liable to be mistaken for this dislocation : viz. fracture of the acromion; of the ned; of the scapula; and of the ned; of the humerus. The first two may be known by the facility with which the form of the joint is restored by raising the limb, and by the crepitus felt on doing so. In fracture of the cervix humeri, the limb is shortened, instead of being lengthened as it is in disloc!\tion ; there is not so much vacuity under the acromion; and the rough angular end of the shaft may be felt in the axilla, instead of the natural smooth head of the bone. 2. In the dislocation forwards, the head of the humerus is thrown on the inner side of the coracoid process, and may be felt under the clavicle. Si/mpioms.—The arm is shortened; the elbow pro- jects backwards; the acro- mion seems pointed,and the head of the bone cannot be felt under it. 3. In the dislocation backivards, the head of the bone may be felt on the dorsum scapulm ; and the elbow projects forwards. 4. In the partial dis- location forwards, the head of the bone is thrown partly off from the glenoid cavity against the coracoid process. The symptoms are, projec- tion of the acromion and a hollow under it at the back of the joint, whilst the head of the bone is prominent in front, and may be felt to move on rotating the elbow; cramps of the hand; and difficulty of raising the elbow, because the head of the bone strikes against the coracoid process. 5. The partial dislocation upivards is attended with a displace- ment of the biceps tendon from its groove, as we shall mention more particularly presently. Treatment.—There are five methods of reducing the first or down- ward form of dislocation. 1. By simple extension. A jack-towel is to be passed round the chest, both above and below the shoulder, so as to fix the scapula well; this should be held firmly. Another should be fastened round the arm, above the elbow, by means of the knot called the clove hitch. represented in the next figure. Extension should then be made by