337 INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. is tlie less in proportion as the increase of the tumoui’ is slow. Some- times the irritation of the surface of the brain gives rise to epileptic convulsions, which may be accompanied with intense headache limited to the seat of the disease. Sometimes there are the signs of compres- sion, in the fonn of gradually increasing mental imbecility, and palsy of tile limbs. Sometimes the patient is cut off with a sudden attack of hemiplegia. But if he survives long enough, the growth (which is usually of the encephaloid variety) makes its way outwardly, per- forates the skull, and appears as a soft lobular tumour. Attentive examination may perhaps detect two kinds of pulsation in it; one syn- chronous with the arterial pulse, the other with the rise and fall of the brain in respiration. The tumour cannot be moved laterally, but in its earlier stages may perhaps be returned into the skull, giving rise to symptoms of compression. If the patient survives long enough, the disease follows the ordinary course of encephaloid. Moderate com- pression is the only feasible treatment; any interference with the knife can only lead to speedy death. SECTION VII. OF INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN, ARISING FROM INJURY. General Description.—Inflammation of the brain rarely makes its appearance till a week after an iiijurj-, frequently not till three weeks, or even later. Its sjmiptoms and progress are very various ; sometimes sudden, violent, and soon terminating in destructive sup- puration ; sometimes slow, insidious, and unsuspected, till suddenly manifested by fatal coma or palsy. Symptoms.—First staje.—The patient complains of pain in the head, aggravated by heat, motion, and anything that causes excite- ment of mind or body, together with a disagreeable sense of languor or weakness, confusion of ideas, quick pulse, disturbed sleep, nausea, and want of appetite, and alternate flushing and paleness. Second staye,—The symptoms having lasted a day or two, there comes on a violent rigour, followed by burning heat of the skin ; the pulse is hard and frequent; the carotid and temporal arteries pulsate vehe- mently ; the headache becomes most intolerable and throbbing, the pupils are contracted; light is unsupportable to the eyes, and sound to the ears; the tongue is dry, the bowels obstinately costive, and tlie stomach rejects everything with frequent retching. Besides these symptoms, violent delirium or convidsions come on at intervals, or perhaps coma. If they are unrelieved, the third stage soon follows. The pulse loses its force, and becomes either slow and oppressed, or excessively rapid ; and squinting, low delirium, convulsions, or palsy, soon usher in death. Rigours, followed by squinting, dilated pupil, stertorous breathing, coma, and palsy, are indications of suppuration Certain changes on the outside of the head also accompany the mischief that is going on within. Supposing the injury which is the cause of the iutlammation to have been accompanied with a wound z