GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. J22 one side of the head, chest, or abdomen, and may pass out at a point exactly opposite, .just as if it had gone entirely through the cavity, whereas it may be found to have travelled round beneath the skin. Sometimes it will make a complete circuit, as in the case of a friend of Dr. Hennen, who was struck about the •pomum Adami by a bullet, which passed completely round the neck, and was found lying in the very orifice by which it entered. The track of the hall in these cases will often be indicated by a blush, or dusky red line, or wheal on the skin, or sometimes by a peculiar emphysematous crackling;—and the diagnosis will of course be aided by the presence or absence of the symptoms of wounds of the great cavities. In a similar manner balls will run along concave surfaces. Thus a soldier may be struck on the wrist when the arm is bent in the act of firing, and the ball may graze along the arm, and fly off at the shoulder; or a ball may strike the outside of the calf of a mounted officer, and be thrown up into the popliteal space ; or one may enter the thorax or abdomen, glide along the inner surface of the peritonmum or pleura, and pass out or be lodged near the spine. Lodgment of Balls.—It is always important to ascertain whether the shot has passed out of the bod}', or whether it is lodged;—and supposing that there are two holes, it must be considered whether they are produced by the entrance and exii of one, or by the entrance of two distinct balls. If there are two holes, and they are distant from each other, some light may be thrown on the question by ascertaining the position of the patient at the time he was wounded, and the posture of his assailant. Thus a soldier has presented himself with two shot- holes, one on the outside of the ankle, the other near the trochanter; but they were both caused by the same ball, which entered at the ankle when the foot was raised in the act of running.* In another instance, a soldier, who was ascending a scaling ladder, was wounded in the right arm, and the ball was found under the skin of the opposite thigh.'t" But even though there may be but one opening, it by no means follows that the ball has lodged; for it may have escaped by the very hole at which it entered, after having made the circuit of the body, as in the case of Dr. Hennen’s friend just mentioned. Or it may have impinged against some part, such as the cartilage of a rib, which has caused it to recoil; and a ball has been known to drive a piece of bone into the brain, and fall out of the wound afterwards. In some instances a ball has been unable to perforate a fold of linen, but has caiTicd it for the distance of one, or even three or four inches into the wound; and on drawing this out, the ball of course comes out with it.J Again, it is very possible that two balls may enter by the same * Guthrie, op. cit. p. 17. t Hennen, op. cit. p. 35. t A silk liandkerchief sometimes saves life in the same way; and Mr. Home, in his Report on Gun-shot Wounds in Canada, in 1838, speaks of tho great power which the canvas lining of soldier’s stocks has in resisting the passage of balls.—Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Jour., July, 1840.