531 LITHOTRITY. Civiale and Leroj’- was, as Sir C. Bell rightly called it, villanous and dangerous enough. A straight cylindrical canula was introduced into the bladder, containing three or four branches which could be protruded from its extremity. These were made to grasp the stone and hold it tightly, whilst it was bored, and scooped, and excavated by drills and other contrivances contained in the centre of the canula, and worked by a bow. When the stone was sufficiently excavated, its shell was crushed by a most complex piece of mechanism called the brise coqiie, or shell-breaker. “ For some time,” saj's Mr. Liston, “ it was maintained, that almost every case of stone could be satisfactorily disposed of by this boring and grinding process. It was tried ex- tensively,” but, “ after many miserable .and painful failures, utterly disappointed the hopes of its advocates.” Nor will these failures be wondered at, when we consider the difficulty sometimes of seizing the stone, sometimes of disentangling the instrument from it*—the ex- tremely slow and inefficient means of disintegrating it, and the great number of times the operation was consequently obliged to be repeated; not to mention the pain caused by the stretching of the urethra with a large straight instrument—the risk of entangling the coats of the bladder, and of seriously bruising the parts about the neck — and the most incomprehensible perplexity of the instruments employed— the nomenclature, structure, and use of which require not a little study. The next method which was employed,and which was first practised by Heurteloup,t consisted in hammering the stone to pieces. The patient was confined to a bed of peculiar construction, cidled the lit rectangulaire ; and the percuteur courbe a marlcau—an instrmnent composed, like that represented in the next figure, of two blades sliding on each other, was made to seize the stone. It was then broken by repeated blows with a hammer on the other extremity of the instru- ment, which was fixed securely to a vice. But this plan was fraught with many inconveniences. The instrument was liable to be bent or broken; its blades were apt to become so clogged with pulverised fragments, that they were withdrawn with difficulty, or perhaps not until the orifice of the urethra had been slit up ; and the bladder was exposed to injur}' from percussion communicated from the instrument, and from the violent splitting of the calculus. The instrument which has now superseded the foregoing, is the screw lithotrite of Mr. Weiss ; which is composed of two sliding blades, between which the stone is seized, and then is crushed by gradual pressure with a screw. This instrument was, in fact, originally in- vented in 1824 (although it was laid aside at the recommendation of Sir B. Brodie, who thought it liable to some objections, and was super- seded for a time by the straight drills of Civiale and the percuteur of ♦ In fact, in one case, the branches could not be returned into tlie canula; and tlic instrument was obliged to be (bagged out open through the neck of tlie bladder and uretlira. t In the year 1830.