FISSURE OF THE PALATE. 422 the deformed part is examined whilst perfectly quiescent, the gap is seen conspicuously, the lateral flaps are distinct, and the posterior nares, with the upper end of the pharjmx, are observed above and behind them. If now the flaps are touched, they will ii^^all probability be jerked upwards ; and if they be still further irritated, each flap will be still more forcibly drawn upwards and outwards, so as hardly to be distinguishable from the rest of the parts forming the sides of the nostrils and throat. But on the other hand, if the pharynx be irri- tated, and made to perform the act of deglutition, the margins of the fissure will be brought together. Now it is easy to understand both that the separation of the flaps must be produced by the action of the palatine muscles, and also that this must occasion a very serious impediment to any operation for uniting them by adhesion ; but the muscular action by xcldch the flaps are brought together was a mystery till Mr. Fergusson showed that it was caused by the upper semicircu- lar border of the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and to him is due the credit of proposing that the muscles which tend to separate the flaps shoxdd be divided, in- stead of endeavouring to counteract them by random incisions in the soft palate, as had been the practice of surgeons previously ; and of showing what the muscles are, which really need to be divided ; viz. the levator palati, and palato-phar^mgeus. The operation is thus described by Mr. Fergusson: — “'With a knife whose blade is somewhat like the point of a lancet, the cutting edge being about a quarter of an inch in extent, and the flat surface being bent semicircularly, I make an incision, about half an inch long, on each side of the posterior nares, a little above and parallel to the palatine flaps, and across a line straight downwards from the lower opening of the Eustachian tube, by which I dixdde the levator palati on both sides, just above its attachment to the palate. Next I pare the edges of the fissure with a straight, blunt-pointed bistoury, remov- ing little more than the mucous membrane ; then, with a pair of long blunt-pointed curved scissors, I divide the posterior pillars of the fauces, immediately behind the tonsil, and if it seems necessary, cut * From a preparation of Mr. W. Fergusson’s in the King’s College Museum.