INFLAMMATION OP THE ANTERIOR CHAMBER. 372 mations, is a sequel of gonorrhoea ; but it is a rare disease. It may- lead to opacity of the cornea, or to iritis. Diagnosis.—This form of ophthalmia may be distinguished from inflammation of the conjunctiva, 1st, by the character of the pain; which is a severe aching, principally felt in the eyebrow, temple, and cheek; and is greatly aggravated every evening; being excessively severe during the night, but remitting towards morning. Whereas in conjunctivitis, the pain is of a scalding nature, and accompanied with a sensation as if sand was in the eye. 2ndly, By the character of tlie redness; which is deep-seated, and of a pale pink; and by the vessels running in straight lines from the circumference of the eye towards the cornea; whereas in conjunctivitis the redness is scarlet and super- ficial, and more vivid; the vessels are tortuous, and freely anastomose, and can be moved about with the finger. Treatment.—In severe cases, it may be necessary to bleed generally or locally: at all events, to purge, and administer colchicum, F. 71 ; or perhaps calomel and opium till the gums begin to suffer. The other measures are, friction of the forehead every afternoon, -with extract of belladonna dissolved in warm laudanum (5j ad 5j), or -with mercurial ointment and opium,—warm pediluvia, or warm bath,— blisters behind the ears,—and Dover’s powder at bedtime. Subse- quently tonics will be useful, especially a combination of dried carbo- nate of soda and powdered bark, five grains of each of which maj' be given every four hours. Dry w.armth, by means of muslin bags, filled with chamomile flowers and heated on a hot plate, is the most soothing local application. II. Catarrho-rheu.matic Ophthalmia is a combination of in- flammation of the sclerotic with that of the conjunctiva. The symp- toms of conjunctivitis, that is to say, roughness and sense of dust in the eye,—muco-purulent discharge and superficial scarlet redness,— are combined with the deeper-seated, straight-lined redness, and with the zone around the cornea, and fits of nocturnal aching, that charac- terize inflammation of the sclerotic. This disease is very apt to lead to onyx, and to ulceration of the cornea, and suppuration in the ante- rior ehamber. Treatment.—Astringent collyria, scarifications, weak citrine oint- ment, and the other topical applications for conjunctival inflammation, must be used in addition to bleeding, calomel and opium, and the other remedies prescribed for simple inflammation of the sclerotic. SECTION VII. INFLAMMATION OF THE ANTERIOR CHAMBER, OR AQUO-CAPSULITIS.* Symptoms.—Slight haziness of the central portion of the posterior Layer of the cornea, interspersed with grayish specks, the larger of • The anterior chamber is sometimes the residence of a parasitic animalcule. For an account of such a case, treated successfully, by Dr. Mackenzie, see Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxii.