FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 484 superficial fascia of tlie thigh, loaded with fat, and divisible into an uncertain number of la3'ers. 3. Fascia propria, a layer of cellular tissue derived from the sheath of the femoral vessels, or, according to others, from the /cwcw cribriformis which closes the saphenic aperture. It is in general pretty dense about the neck of the hernia, but thin, or even deficient, on its fundus. 4. The sac. Between the last two there is often found a considerable layer of fat, which might be mis- taken for omentum. Femoral hernia rarely attains a very large size. It is much more frequent in the female than in the male, obviously from the greater breadth of the pelvis.* Di.agnosis.— ]. Femoral hernia may be distinguished from the inguinal by observing that Poupart’s ligament can be traced over the neck of the sac, and that the spinous process of the pubes lies internal to it; whereas it is the reverse in the inguinal hernia. Besides, the femoral is gene- rally much smaller and is more frequent in women. 2. Psoas abscess re- sembles this hernia in its situation, in dilating on coughing, and di- minishing when the pa- tient lies down. The points of distinction are, that it is generally more external, that it fluctu- ates, but does not feel tympanitic, and that it is attended with symp- toms of disease of the spine. 3. Varix of the femo- ral vein also resembles this hernia, inasmuch as it dilates somewhat on coughing, and dimi- • Mr. Partridge informed the author tliat ho had met with a case of femoral hernia, protruding below Poupart’s ligament, external to the vessels. + The cut, taken from a preparation of Mr. Fergusson’s in the King’s Col- lege Museum, shows a femoral iiernia with its relation to the other parts which pass under Poupart’s ligament. Externally are seen sections of tlie iliacus and psoas muscles, with the crural nerve between them; then the femoral aidery and vein • next the hernia, which passes through a small aperture occupied by an absorbent gland in the normal state, and is bounded by Gimbernat’s ligament on its inner side. The hernia passes downwards in the sheath of the femoral vessels separated, however, from the vein, a.s that is from the artery, by a pro- cess of cellular tissue. The sheath of the vessels is continuous above with the fascia transversalis.