DISEASES OP THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 49G home into the inflamed part, and if it be at all extensive, two or three punctures should be made. IX. Fistula in Ano signifies a fistulous track by the side of the sphincter ani. It is extremely difficult to heal, both because the con- stant contractions of the sphincter and levator ani interfere with the union of its sides, and because of the passage of fmcal matter into it from the bowel. There are three kinds spoken of in books. 1. The complete, fiitiila, which has one external opening near the anus, and another into the bowel above the sphincter, where it may be felt like a small papilla. 2. The blmd external fistula, which has no opening into the bowel, although it mostly reaches its outer coat. 3. The blind internal fistula, which opens into the bowel, but not externally, although its situation is indicated a redness and hardness near the anus. This affection is a common result of abscess by the side of the rectum. Brodie's opinion is, that it always commences with an ulceration of the mucous membrane of the rectum, and an escape of faical matter into the cellular tissue ; which gives rise to abscess, and the abscess to fistula. But most other surgeons believe that it may be the result of abscesses around the anus, which have no connection with the rectum. Besides, there may be openings near the anus, leading from the tuber ischii, which may be carious. Treatment.—The grand remedy for this affection is division of the sphincter ani, so as to prevent contraction of that muscle for a time, and cause the fistula to heal from the bottom. The digestive organs and secretions must first be put in good order, and the bowels be well cleared by castor-oil and an injection, so that they may not want to be disturbed for two or three days. Operation.— The patient being placed on his knees and elbows on a bed, or being made to kneel on a chair and lean over the back of it, and the nates being kept asunder by an assistant, the surgeon introduces his left forefinger into the anus, and at the same time explores with a probe the whole extent and ramifications of the fistula. If it is of the blind internal kind, its situ- ation must be ascertained, and a puncture be made into it by the side of the anus. Perhaps a probe bent at an acute angle may be passed into it from the bowel, and serve as a guide for the puncture. Then, one forefinger being still in the anus, the surgeon passes a strong curved probe-pointed bistoury up to the further end of the fistula. Next (if the internal opening cannot be found) he pushes it through the coats of the bowel, so that its point maj’ come in contact with his forefinger. Then he puts the end of his forefinger on the point of the bistourj', and draws it down out of the anus ; and as soon as it is fairl}' emerged, he pushes the handle towards the orifice of the fistula, so as to divide skin, sphincter, and bowel, at one sweep. Sir B. Brodie recommends that the bistoury should always be passed through the internal opening of the fistula, and says that the affection will very likely return if this is not divided ; he also condemns the practice of cutting through the bowel higher up than this opening. A few threads of oiled lint are