347 SPINA BIFIDA. V. Acute or Subacute Inflammation'of the spinal cord may bo caused by blows, by twists, or other injuries, and may occur during acute rheumatism ; moreover it not unfrequently attacks persons who are greatly exposed to cold and wet, such as labourers and prostitutes. Fever, violent pain in the back, and complete paraplegia, with loss of power over the rectum and bladder, are the symptoms. The treat- ment must consist of bleeding or cupping ; calomel to affect the mouth, and subsequently blisters and warm baths. In subacute and chronic cases the iodide of potassium ; with colchicum or alkalis if in- dicated by the state of the urine, and the bichloride of mercury with tincture of bark, F. 87. VI. Spina Bifida, or hijdrorachitis, is an affection in which the spinous processes and lamium of some of the vertebrm are cleft or deficient. The spinal membranes, deprived of their ordinary support, j’ield to the pressure of the fluid which they contain (which also is secreted in unusual quantity), and bulge out, forming a fluctuating tumour in the middle line of the back. Pathology.—This affection evidently has its origin in the earliest stage of foetal existence, and depends on an arrest of development of the lamina; of the vertebra;, and generally of the lumbar and sacral. It is found, on dissection, that not merely the spinal membranes are dis- tended, but that the nerves or the cord itself may have very impor- tant connexions with the sac. “ If the tumour,” to use Mr. Prescott Hewett’s words, “ corresponds to the two or throe U|)per lumbar verte- brae only, the cord itself rarely deviates from its course, and the poste- rior Spinal nerves are generally the only branches which have any connexion with the sac. But if the tumour occupies partly the lumbar and partly the sacral region, then generally the cord itself wnA its nerves will be found intimately connected with the sac. Mr. Cruveilhier be- lieves from his dissections that this connexion is constant.” This is well illustrated by the accompanying sketch of a preparation in the St. George’s Hospital Museum, made by Mr. Hewott, who kindly obtained permission for the author to have the drawing made. The patient was five months old, and died under Mr. Tatum’s care. The cavity of the tumour is seen to be intersected by the cord, and by the nerves emanating from it. The cord and its nerves passing out of the spinal canal at the upper part of the opening run across the cavity of the tumour to its posterior wall, where they are firmly fixed, the nerves being here flattened and spread out upon a fine membrane. From the sac, the anterior branches of the first four sacral nerves re- turn in distinct bundles, forming large loops, to the anterior sacral foramina, through which they pass as usual to form the sacral plexuses. The fluid had evidently been effused between the visceral arachnoid and pia-mater; and the walls of the sac were formed by the visceral and parietal arachnoid and by the skin, all of which were much thickened, and firmly united to each otlier. In cases like this, in which the cord and its nerves pass through the cavity of the tumour, it is probable that the fluid was originally