DISEASES OF THE BONES. 220 fliM' ifeit, cision is sometimes necessary if there is a collection of fluid between the periosteum and bone, and no measures succeed in producing its absorption and allaying the pain; but it very often happens, especiallj' in venereal cases, that mercurj' (if not previously ad- ministered to excess), or the iodide of pot- assium, sarsaparilla, and blisters, will ac- complish those objects. A free incision through the thickened periosteum down to the enlarged surface of the bone, is an heroic remedy, and may succeed in reliev- ing pain and tension, and disengorging the distended blood-vessels, after all other remedies have failed. The scrofulous form admits of only palliative and constitutional treatment. TTrfe, p. 96. V. Abscess is a rare consequence of in- flammation of bone. A cavity lined with a vascular membrane, and filled with pus, is formed in the substance of a bone, gene- rally the tibia, which may or may not be unusually dense around it. There may possibly be a small piece of necrosed bone confined in the cavity, or the disease maj’ have begun from a deposit of tubercle. Abscess may be suspected when, in addi- tion to permanent inflammatory enlarge- ment and tenderness (which may have lasted for years), there is a fixed tensive pain at one particular spot, aggravated at | night, and imrelieved by any remedy, though perhaps it may have occasional re- missions. The two affections that are most likely to be confounded with it, are neuralgia, and chronic inflammation. - Treatment.—When there is good reason to suspect the existence of abscess, the bone must be laid bare by a cruci.al in- cision, and an opening be made with a trephine at the precise seat of the pain ; it may, if necessary, be deepened with achisel. After the pus is evacuated, the wound must be left to granulate and cicatrize.* —Necrosis.—This tenn, although signifying the death or mortification of bone generically, is yet usually restricted to * Vide Sir B. Brodic’s Lecture, Mod. Gaz., Dec. 1845; Mayo and Stanley, op. cit.