389 AMA0RO3IS. SECTION XIV.—OF AMAUROSIS. V Definition.—Imperfection of vision, depending on some change in the retina, optic nerve, or brain. Symptoms.— 1. Of course the first and most prominent s}Tnptom is impairment of vision ; the mode and degree of whicli, are, however, subject to very great variety. Sometimes the sight becomes suddenly dim, and is soon extinguished altogether ; more frequently it becomes impaired by slow degrees; and at first is only so at intervals; after the eyes have been fatigued, for instance, or when the spirits are low, or the stomach disordered. Sometimes it commences as indistinct vision, or amblyopia,—or as diplopia, objects appearing double,—or as hemio- pia, one half only of the objects looked at being seen; or objects may appear crooked, disfigured, or disfcoloured ; or they may be seen covered with patches ; or the affection may commence as near-sight- edness or far-sightedness. The patient finds himself unable to esti- mate distances, and misses his aim when trying to snuff a candle, or pour beer into a glass. The flame of a candle generally appears split, ■lengthened, or broken into an iridescent halo. 2. Ocular spectra, sometimes in the form of floating black spots {musccB volitantes), sometimes as flashes of light, or as a coloured cloud or network.* 3. Sometimes incipient amaurosis is attended with great intolerance of light—sometimes, on the contrary, with a constant thirst for liyht, or feeling 'as if objects were not illuminated enough. 4. The patient walks with a peculiar uncertain gait, and his eyes have a vacant stare ; the eyelids move imperfectly and seldom—the pupil is generally dilated (unless it be an incipient case, attended with intolerance of light) ; the iris moves sluggishly, and in confirmed cases is totally motionless. But if one eye be sound, and be exposed to light during the examination, the iris of the affected eye will often move in sympathy with that of the sound one. Diagnosis. — Amaurosis may be distinguished from cataract by noticing, 1. That in cataract, an opake body can be seen behind the pupil, and that the impainnent of vision is in proportion to the extent of that opacity; whereas, in pure amaurosis, the pupil either shows its natural colour, or else a deep-seated greenish discoloration. 2. ^hat, in cataract (with the exception of the radiating varietj')? vision lis simply clouded, and that a lighted candle appears as if enveloped in la mist; whereas, in amaurosis, objects are seen c/fscoloured or per- 1 verted in shape ; and that a lighted candle seems split, or lengthened, or iridescent; and that muscce volitantes, and flashes of fire when the eyes are shut, are not present in pure cataract. 3. That in cataract vision is better in a dull light, whereas it is generally the reverse in The Student will do well to road Milton's account of his own blindness as given in Dr. Johnson's Lives of the Poets.