ANEURISM, 312 should be placed in bed, with his limb in an easj' position ; wrapped up, to preserve its circulation ; and though it become ratlier swelled (which is not unlikely), cold must on no account be applied. When a ligature cannot be applied between the aneurism and the heart, it has been proposed to tie the vessel on the distal side ; and this operation has been performed with success in cases of carotid aneurism, by Mr. Wardrop and others. But Mr. Guthrie shows that this operation does not act as the ligature between the aneurism and the heart does, by stopping the circulation through the aneurism; but by “ giving rise to inflammation in the aneurism, and in the artery both above and below it, and that unless it does this, it fails.” It is therefore a dangerous and uncertain operation, and should be performed only where the tumour increases rapidly, and cannot be checked by any other means. After the operation the limb may become grangrenous, in the same manner as described at p. 126. If the gangrene spread bej'ond the fingers or toes, amputation should be performed above the level of the ligature. 3rdly, Medical Treatment.—In all cases that are submitted to opera- tion, it will be advisable to use various auxiliary measures for re- ducing the energj'^ of the circulation ; and in cases in which no opera- tion can be performed, it is by these only that we can hope to lengthen out the patient’s existence. Thus, before using either compression or the ligature, it will be expedient to bleed moderately once or twice, to confine the patient to his bed, and to administer some of the seda- tive medicines to be presently mentioned. Bleeding nmy be performed occasionally, if the patient is plethoric, and the tumour increases rapidly, with violent pulsation ; but it should never be carried to faintness. The diet should be light. Bodily or mental exertion and fermented liquors should be rigidlj' ab- stained from. Digitalis and tartar emetic, in moderate doses, are sometimes given. But the most useful remedy is the acetate of lead given in doses of gr. \—i ter die, with half that quantity of opium, and a draught containing acetic acid, F. 75. This medicine seems to have the faculty of rendering the blood coagulable, and of diminish- ing the calibre of the arteries. It used to be mentioned in terms of commendation by Mr. Green in his lectures at King’s College, who gave some instances of its efficacy.* But it must be recollected that frequent bleeding and too rigid starvation will increase the irritability of the heart and arteries, and render the system incapable of forming healthy lymph ; and that consequently they will prevent the desired changes in the aneurismal sac. Particular care should be taken not to administer drastic purgatives ; because they invariably cause a great excitement and throbbing of the arteries. * See also a case of aneurism of aorta caused by acetate of lead in largo doses, Arcli. Gen. do Mod., Sopt. 1839.