186 ILL EFFECTS OP lIERCtJRT. The ill efff.cts of Mercury that require to be guarded against are as follow ; 1. Crripina and purging —which are to be obviated by combining a small quantity of opium or hyoscyamus with the blue pill, and giving occasionally a draught with P. rhaji 9j, tinct. ejusd. f5j, tinct. opii IT] xx, aq. menth. f5x. It is far from uncommon for a slight attack of dysentery to occur, especially about the time that salivation commences ; there being sickness and severe griping, with frequent straining and ineffectual attempts to go to stool. This should be treated by the draught just mentioned, followed by opiate enemata and the warm bath,—the mercury being omitted for the time. 2. Sore throat; redness of the whole fauces, and sloughing or ulcer- ation of the tonsils with fever. In this case the mercury must be dis- continued, till leeches, gargles, and aperients have set the throat to rights;—and then it may be resumed in smaller doses. 3. Violent salivation. This may be caused by a too liberal use of the remed}'; or by a sudden check to the cutaneous secretion by cold and damp ; or by loss of blood, or anything that suddenly lowers the system. It is, however, very common to meet with persons who are salivated by the smallest quantities conceivable; and every practitioner should make a point of ascertaining this, before he prescribes mercury for any new patient. There is good reason for believing that a great susceptibility of salivation, and tendency to Bright’s disease of the kid- ney often go together. The symptoms of severe salivation are, swell- ing and inflammation of the salivary glands, cheeks, tongue, and fauces, with a flow of peculiarly fetid saliva, and ulceration or even sloughing of the gums. The best local applications for this state are, gargles of brandy and water, to which a little of the solution of chloride of lime may be added, or gargles of tannin, or of hydrochloric acid (F. 107, et seq.). The bowels should be kept open by aperients ; and, as soon as fever has abated, the patient should have a good diet and tonics. Change of air, and especially removal from the venereal wards of an hospital, are indispensable. If the salivation is very obstinate, re- peated blisters should be applied behind the ears, and to the throat.* 4. Eczema mercuriale {Eczema rubrum, Erythema mercuriale, hydrargyria) consists of patches of redness and inflammation, which appear first on the groins, Jixillae, and flexures of the limbs, and then spread over the trunk. These patches are covered with minute vesicles, which soon burst, discharging a thin acrimonious fluid, and leaving the surface excoriated, and exceedingly painful and tender. The discharge often becomes profuse and fetid, and the affected parts much swollen and fissured. It generally lasts for ten days, but may remain for many weeks, i* Treatment, Warm bathing, mild and * Dr. Macleod relates two cases of coma following the sudden cessation of salivation; one fatal; the otlier cured by reproducing it. Lond. iled. and Phys. Jour., vol. Ivi. p. 231. t One variety, hydrarpijria medigna, now almost unknovm, is attended with typlioid fever. Eight out of fourteen cases died. Alley on HydrargjTia. Lond. 1810. Z»-