443 LARYNGOTOIIY AND TRACHEOTOMY. the patient wishes to cough or speak, he must be taught to close its orifice with his finger. It should be frequently cleared of any mucus that may lodge in it. The operation of opening the larjmx or trachea, may be required for various diseases and injuries which cause mechanical impediments to respiration ; such as acute laryn- gitis, croup, chronic laryngitis with ulceration,oedema glottidis, tumours, and some injuries which have crush- ed the larynx. We have space for a very few observations only on these cases. III. In acute lari/ngitis and in croup,* where bleeding and other antiphlogistic remedies fail to make an_v impression on the disease, it is generally agreed upon that trache- otomy should be performed, without waiting till the patient is exhausted by struggling for breath, and his case has become hopeless in conse- quence. In the state called cedei/ia fjlottidis, in which the submucous tissue about the glottis becomes infiltrated with serum in consequence of a low degree of inflamma- tion, or of a general dropsical diathesis; a glance at the preceding figure will show that an artificial aperture must be often necessary to preserve life. This state may be suspected when intense dyspneea, not referable to disease in the chest, arises during sore throat, or erysipelas ; or when it occurs spontaneously in unhealthy constitu- tions, without any acute inflammatory symptoms. I IV. In chronic inflammation and ulceration of the larynx, the operation should also be performed before the disease has lasted long ' enough to exhaust the patient by the spasmodic cough, dyspnma, and pumlent expectoration which attend it. This disease is an occasional consequence of secondary S3'philis, as mentioned at p. 19G, and more frequentlv of confirmed phthisis ; but the operation should always be' performed if there is imminent danger of suffocation, even though the ] patient’s ultimate recovery may be quite hopeless. V. The operation is sometimes required for tumours or warty ex- I crescences growing within the larynx ; cases that will generally be • In a case of croup which came under the writer's observation some years since, tlie patient ijeing manifestiy in articnlo mortis, traclieotoiny was ])er- forined ijy Air. Mayo, and a large piece of false meinlnanc wa.s extiaeted ; after wliicli the child lived four day.s, and had every prospect of recovery, ijut was : suddenly carried olf hy convulsions. This ca.so is mentioned to justify the I recommendation to perform tracheotomy in croup; a thing which some surgeons ^ altogether condemn.