THE EFFECTS OF COLD. 141 ensue if a part has been exposed for along period to a lotv tpmjKruture which is suddenly raised ;—although the cold may not have been sufficient to cause actual frost-bite, and may have been tolerated with- out inconvenience. A good example of this accident is narrated by Baron Larrey,* as it alFected the French troops during their campaign in Poland in 1807. During the few days preceding and following the battle of Eylau, the cold was most intense, ranging from ten to fifteen degrees below the zero of Reaumur.+ But although the troops were day and night exposed to this inclement weather, and the soldiers of the Imperial Guard, in particular, were nearlj' motionless for more than twenty-four hours, there were no complaints of its effects. On the night of the 9th of Febniarj'', however, a sudden thaw commenced, and immediately a groat number of soldiers presented themselves at the “ ambulances,'" complaining of severe numbness, weight, and pricking pain in the feet. On examination, some were found to have slight swelling and redness at the base of the toes and dorsum of the foot; whilst the toes of others had already become black and dry. And in this manner, the toes,and sometimes the whole foot, perished; the mortification being so rapid that it was difficult to say whether it was preceded by inflammation or not—although it probably was so for a very brief period. One case, exactly similar, was treated by ]\Ir. Solly in St. Thomas’s Hospital in 1845. The patient, not very temperate, had been employed a whole daj^ in Jannar}' in handling raw cow hides. In the evening, feeling his left hand excessively cold and stiff, he put it into warm water, and held it to the fire, which ex- cited great pain and iiiflammation, ending in gangrene, which spread up to the middle of the fore-arm.J The best treatment for such cases is the application of snow or very cold water, followed bj^ evaporating lotions. These, if employed early enough, may prevent gangrene; or even if that have actually occurred, they should be used as long as it appears to be spreading. Subsequently, stimulating poultices and ointments should be employed to hasten the separation of the sloughs, and to promote granulation. Chilulai.vs consist in an atonic inflammation of the skin, induced by sudden alternations of temperature; such as warming the feet and hands by the fire when cold and damp. They may present them- selves in three degrees. In the first, the skin is red in patches, and slightly swelled ; with more or less itching or tingling, or perhaps pain and lameness. In the second, there are vesications—the skin around being bluish or purple. In the third degree there is ulceration or sloughing. Chilblains arc common in women, children, and weakly persons generally. In persons whose circulation is very languid, they are apt to alfect the nose and ears. Treatment oj the First Deyree.—The best treatment consists in a ’ Mem. do Chir. Mil., tom. iii. p. 01. t From 20" to 25" below the freezing point of Fahrenheit. t Quoted in South’s Chelius, vol. i. p. 128.