84 ULCERS. mortified, and the mortification spread over half the cheek. He has also met with two other cases affecting persons in a horse-hair manu- factory. It is believed that flics which have alighted on the ulcers of the diseased animals, convey the virus, and infect other animals and human beings. The constitutional symptoms and morbid appearances are those of putrid typhus ; the treatment, both constitutional and local, is the same that we have directed for hospital gangrene.* XII. Morbid Ulcers.— Under this term Sir E. Home includes a variety of ulcers connected with a disordered state of the constitution, and capable of being removed by particular remedies. Arsenic is said by Mr. Ecclesf to be highly useful in sores which are dry and little inflamed, and surrounded by much scabbing and exfoliation of the cuticle. Ulcers about the instep and foot, with their edges and the surrounding skin much and extensively thickened like elephantiasis ; and often occurring in the lazy and over-fed servants of the opulent; sometimes yield to mercurial fumigations, or the application of mer- curial ointment with camphor. XIII. The Cutaneou.s Ulcer spreads widely but superficially over the skin, and often heals in one part whilst it spreads to another. Some ulcers of this kind are contagious. Treatment.—Any constitutional disorder must be .ascertained and remedied. The best local applic.ations are stimulants, especi.ally the arg. nit., employed in solution, or rubbed lightly over the sore, so as to form an eschar. XIV. The Ulcer of the Cellular Membrane,— which burrows under the skin and destroys that tissue, must be treated as the fistulous or weak, according to circumstances. XV. Men.strual Ulcer.—This name is given to ulcers occurring in chlorotic young women, and exuding a sanguineous fluid at the time of their monthly discharge, if that be absent. Wounds made in operating will frequently do the same. Treatment.—The .amenorrhosa must be remedied by steel, aloes, &c. and the ulcer be treated on general principles. Mr. Critchett has observed that the best way of making the uterus resume its functions, is to heal the uleer, whieh acts as a vic.arious organ; and that it is not prudent merely to attend to the general he.alth, and neglect the ulcer. * Lawrence, Med. Gaz., vol. v. p. 392 ; Die. do Med. Art. Charbon, PxtsttUe nuilignc; Schwabe, Brit, and For. Rev. vol. vii. p. 550. A case of anthrax, caused by eating the flesh of an animal which had died of the disease, is quoted from an Italiiin journal in LomL Med. Gaz., 21st Oct. 1842 ; and there is a verj- convenient collection of the most recent information on the subject in South’s Cholius, vol. i. p. 65. t Eccles on the Ulcerative Process and its Tre.atment. Lond. 1834.