BRONCHOCELE. 447 lie must be taught to close it partially by leaning his head forwards, and placing his fingers on it, whilst he makes an expiratory effort, so that he may expel the air with a sudden gust. In every stage of the cure, difficulty of breathing should be viewed with suspicion. It may arise from several causes. 1. If the wound ' is above the larynx, it may be caused by the epiglottis being detached from the tongue, and hanging down upon or irritating the rima yloiti- dis, or by clots of blood collecting in the pharynx. 2. It may be caused by an irregular and jagged division of the larynx or trachea, so that some pieces of the cartilage hang into the tube ; or supposing the trachea to have been completely cut through, it may be caused by the aperture of the lower portion being overlapped by the upper. In these cases it may be requisite to employ sutures, but they should be passed merely through the cellular tissue around the cjirtilage, and neither through the cartilage nor the skin. 3. It may be caused by swell- ing of the mucous membrane of the larynx and trachea in the acute infiammatory stage immediately after the injury ; or by chronic thickening of that membrane from the continued irritation of cold air, if the wound is very slow in closing. In the former of these cases, free antiphlogistic measures must be used; the latter must be prevented by using a proper position, so as to promote the approximation of the wound whilst it is healing. In either case it may be necessary to make a longitudinal division of the trachea to relieve the dyspnma. 4. Another frequent cause of dyspnoea is the .* passage of blood into the trachea, if the wound is prematurely closed, and especially if it is sewn up or covered with plasters. Even sup- posing the trachea not to be opened, great danger may result from closing a wound of the throat before bleeding has ceased, for the blood may accumulate in the cellular tissue, and coagulate, and com- press the trachea. II. Bhonx'Hocei.e {Go'iire, Derhysliirc neck) signifies an hypertro- phy of the thyroid gland. Symptoms.—A soft, projecting, elastic tumour occupies the front of the neck, in the situation and of the shape of the thyroid gland. It is rarely tender, and the skin is not discoloured. Frequently one lateral lobe is larger than the other ; and occasionally the middle lobe or isthmus is solel}* or principally .affected. Consequences.—When of moderate bulk, it rarely causes any incon- venience, except occasional headache, and difficulty of breathing in a stooping posture. But when very large, it may produce a most dan- gerous difficulty of swallowing and breathing, and congestion in the head by its pressure on the trachea, cesoph.agus, and jugular veins ;* or it may induce thickening and disease of the trachea, with most obstinate cough, which may end in consumption. * Mr. Howship gives a cjise of bronchoccle with the jugular vein passing I through its substance. The patient suUered greatly from congestion in the I head. f :-a