415 AFFECTIONS OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. grene is circumscribed, and is generally confined to one side ; and that it commences usually in the cheek, and that it only affects that part of the gums which is in close contiguity, and that the tongue is un- touched. Whereas in severe mercurial saliration, the ulceration is diffused ; the whole of the gums, and the lining membrane of the cheeks, and the tongue, as well as the palate, being affected from the first. Treatment.—The indications are threefold. 1st. To evacuate and correct the secretions of the stomach and bowels by calomel followed by rhubarb and magnesia. 2iidlj'. To keep up the strength by wine, beef-tea, and other nutritious articles, and by bark or quinine in suffi- cient doses. The chlorate of potassa has been strongly recommended, and may be given in doses of gr. xx.—xl. in the twenty-four hours. .3rd. To excite a healthy action in the diseased part by stimulating lotions, especially solution of nitrate of silver, alum, sulphate of cop- per, or the chloride of lime ; and, lastly, if these means fail to arrest the disease, the strong nitric acid should be applied so as to destroy the whole of the diseased part, in the same manner as was directed for hospital gangrene.* SECTION II.—AFFECTIONS OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. I. Foreign Bodies may be removed from the nose by a small curette, or scoop, or bent probe. If they cannot be brought through the nostrils, they may be pushed back into the throat. The removal should be effected as early as possible. II. Epistaxis, or heemorrhaye from the nose, may, like other hae- morrhages, bo produced, 1st, by injury; 2ndly, it maybe an active hmmorrbage of arterial blood caused by general excitement and ple- thora, or by determination of blood to the head, or by the suppression of some other discharge; Brdl}', it may be a passive draining of venous blood, owing to obstruction of the circulation by disease of the heart r.r liver, or to a morbidly thin state of the blood, together with relax- ation of the vessels, as happens in scurvy, purpura, and the last stage of fevers. Treatment.— 1. If the patient be red-faced, plethoric, and subject to headache and giddiness, the hmmorrhage should be regarded as salutary, and should not be restrained too suddenly. If it be very profuse, and attended with much headache, venesection may be per- formed, and at all events purgatives and low diet shoidd be prescribed. Epsom salts in small doses, with the dilute sulphuric acid, form an useful medicine. 2. But the hmmorrhage requires to be stopped, either if it have continued so long that the patient will be injiiriously weakened,—or if it arise from injury,—or if it be a passive haemor- rhage depending on visceral disease or general cachexy. If an • Vide James on Inflammation, p. 527; Marsliall Hall in L.aneet for 1839-40 p. 409; P. H. Green, ibid.; and also in Cycl. Pract. Surg. Art. Cancrum Oris • Willis on Cutaneous Disease ; Hunt, .Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxvi. ’