POISON OF SERPENTS. 145 soap liniment, or compound camphor liniment, may be used to remove the oedematous swelling that remains. The author has been informed by a friend at Sydney, that a poultice of ipecacuanha is there consi- dered to be a specific for almost every kind of venomous bite. In the case of a ivusj^ or bee sliny in the fauces, with urgent danger of suflbcation, leeches should be plentifully applied both externally and internally;—and hot stimulating gargles (especially hot salt and water) should be frequently used, in the hope of reducing the tume- faction, by causing a copious flow of blood and of saliva : but if these measures fail of affording relief, an opening must be made into the larynx or trachea. For the bites of bugs,.fleas, gnats, mosquitoes, i*tc., the treatment is the same. Spiders.—The most celebrated of this class is the tarantula, the miraculous effects imputed to the bite of which are too well known to need repetition here ; and we can feel but little hesitation in subscrib- ing to the opinion of Ray, “ that the dancing of the Tarantaii to certain tunes and instruments, and that these fits continue to recur yearly as long as the tarantula that bites them lives and then cease, are no other than acting fictions, and tricks to get money.” We learn, however, from the least romancing of the old writers, that it produces swelling, lividity, and cramps, which were cured by scarifications and wine ; and these are just the S3'mptoms it might be expected to cause, and the most rational cure. The effects of the scorpion are similar. There is one very singular case on record, of a gentleman bitten on the penis by a spider, in America, suffering from violent vomiting, deep-seated abdominal pain, and suffocative spasms in consequence. He was relieved in thirty-six hours, by bleeding, opium, and am- monia.* Serpents.—The venom of these animals operates, as Fontana ob- served, by “ destroying the irritability of the nerves, and disposing the humours to speedy corruption.” The symptoms produced vary in their nature and degree, according to the species of serpent, its degree of vigour, the frequency with which it may have bitten, and the strength of the sufferer. Some serpents can kill only small animals; the poison of some is very virulent, but soon exhausted by frequent biting ; that of others is mild, but not easily exhausted ; some again, act so energetically on the nerves, as to cause death speedily by con- vulsions ; others produce inflammation of the lungs ; and others, whose venom is insufficient to annihilate the nervous functions at once, kill more slowly by the unhealthy or diffuse inflammation which thej' excite at the bitten part. Viper.—This is the only poisonous snake in the British Isles, but it is not often that it kills human beings. The properties of its venom were most painfullj- investigated, in every possible point of view, b_y • R.vy, Phil. Trans. 1698, vol. xxi. p. 47; Boccone, Musoo di Fisica; Hulse, Am. .lourn. Mod. Sc., Jlay, 1839. Gozzo, Gaz. Mod. 1845, quotod in Ranking, vol. ii. L