350 INJURIES OF THE SPIKE. for if a lancet is used, there will be a greater risk of wounding some important part contained in the cavity of the tumour.” * After puncture very great attention should be paid to proper sup- port b}' bandages. VII. Maugn.ant Disease of the Spinal Column. When severe and continued pain in some part of the spine, with more or less de- rangement of the nervous functions, and perhaps some perceptible tumour, occur in a patient affected with malignant disease, the proba- bility is, that some of the same morbid growth is deposited in or near the vertcbrae.t SECTION II.—INJURIES OF THE SPINE. I. Concussion.—Violent blows or bendings of the spine are liable to produce verj' serious injury to the spinal cord. Sometimes thej- cause an immediate paralysis of the parts below the seat of the injury, which gradually passes off, and thus resembles the effects of concussion of the brain ; sometimes they are followed by inflammation, which requires prompt antiphlogistic measures, in order to avert permanent paraplegia or death. II. Extravasation of Blood.—A severe blow on the back sometimes causes an extravasation of blood into the spinal canal, which, as it increases, causes compression of the cord, and paraplegia. III. Dislocation and I'racture.—Dislocation of the spine is rare, except in the cervical region, but it occasionally does occur even in the lumbar and dorsal without any accompanying fracture. When fracture occurs, it generally passes transversely across the body and arch of the vertebrae. The ill consequences of these accidents will of course be proportioned to the amount of injury inflicted on the spinal cord ; and if that escapes compression, the consequences may not be serious. Thus it may happen that one or more spinous processes may be broken off; or that the cervical vertebral may be twisted round ; and the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae have been displaced backwards, the patient recovering with peiTuanent deformity, but nothing worse.J But it more frequently happens in fracture and dislocation of the vertebrae, that the spinal cord is compressed or lacerated, and the parts below the scat of injury deprived of their nervous influence ; and in these cases the symptoms vary, according to the level of the injury. If the injury affect one of the lumbar or laiver dorsal vericbrcE, the legs and lower part of the trunk are palsied and insensible, the penis is erect, the faeces are discharged involuntarily, owing to palsy of the sphincter ani ; but the urine cannot be voided voluntarily, owing to palsy of the muscular coat of the bladder. Immediately after the in- ' Vide cases of spina bifida, with remarks by Prescott Hewett. Lond. Wed. Gaz. 1844. t C»sar Hawkins, Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xxiv. $ Guerin, L’Experience, Dec. 3,1840 ; bhaw, lied. Gaz. vol. xvii. p. 930.