419 NOK-MALIGNANT OR FIBROUS TUMOUR. times (though rarely) the matter makes its way into the nostril ; and sometimes the abscess points externally, or bursts into the mouth. Treatment—A free aperture must be made into the cavity. If either of the molar teeth is loose or carious, it should be extracted, and a trocar be pushed through the empty socket into the antrum. But if all the teeth are sound, or if they have been all extracted before, an incision should be made through the membrane of the mouth above the alveoli of the molar teeth, and the bone be pierced by a strong pair of scissors or trocar, as represented in the foregoing figure. The instruments should not be made of too highly tempered steel, lest they break. The cavity should be frequently syringed with warm water, in order to clear away the matter, which is sometimes thick like putty. If the discharge continues profuse and fetid, search should be made with a probe for loose pieces of bone, which should be removed without delay, the aperture being enlarged if necessary. II. Dropsy of the Antrum.—The antnun may become enor- mously distended, in consequence of an accumulation of its natural clear mucous secretion, if the apertm’e into the nostril has become obliterated. In a case which occurred in Mr. W. Fergusson’s practice in the King’s College Hospital in 1850, there was great protrusion of the cheek, and of the hard palate, and other signs of tumour, so that the patient was sent up for the purpose of having the bone extirpated ; but on examination it was discovered that the antrum was greatly distended with a yellow viscid fluid containing brilliant particles of cholesterine; and an opening having been estabbshed through the anterior wall of the cavity, the patient was soon dis- charged cured.* In some cases the parietes are so thin as to crackle on pressure. III. Fungus Medullaris may commence in the lining mem- brane of the antrum, or in the sockets of the adjoining teeth. In its first stage it causes a sense of weight and stuffing, with perhaps epi- staxis, which usually gives relief to the symptoms for a time. Then the cheek bulges out, in the form of a hard tumour. After a time, some portion of it feels soft and pulpy, and then bleeding fungous tumours project from the cheek, or into the mouth, or into the orbit, causing horrid pain and deformity, with profuse fetid discharge ; pro- truding the eye from its socket, and leading to the inevitably fatal results of fungus hmmatodes. Treatment.—The only remedy is extirpation of the superior maxil- lary bone; but, to be of any use, it must be performed before the diseased growth has burst from the cavity, and before the skin and Ij'mphatic glands have become implicated. IV. A Non-IMalignant or Fibrous Tumour is not unfre- quently developed in the antrum, or on the external surface of the superior maxillary bone. On a section, it appears a dense, homoge- * Med. Times, 18tli May, 1850.