192 SECONDARY SYPHILIS. Museum. under which the skin is ulcerated. The ulcers spread under the scabs, and the latter become remarkably thick from successive additions. 4. Pustular Eruption (Ecthyma). Large prominent pustules, with a copper-coloured base, leading to ulcers. 5. Tubercular Eruption. Broad, red, copper-coloured tubercles, forming most frequently at the alas of the nose, or on the cheeks. They gradually suppurate, and are succeeded by deep irregular ulcers, terminating in puckered cicatrices, and more properly belong to the class of tertiary symptoms, in which mercury is almost inad- missible. This form of disease is most unfavourable, and usually appears at a considerable distance of time from the prim.ory sjmp- toms, in persons whose constitution is originally weak, or has been shattered by privation, dissipation, or frequent unavailing courses of mercury. A patch of this kind of unhealthy inflammation is apt to form on the tongue, and after a time an abscess breaks, disclosing a ragged excavation, filled with orange-coloured sloughs, and exuding a copious fetid discharge. If it occurs on the palate, a probe will detect bare exfoliating bone ; which rapidly perishes and leaves a hideous chasm. Condylomata or mucous tubercles are soft red fungous elevations of the surface of the skin, generally situated about the anus, or between the scrotum and thigh, or at other parts where two cutaneous surfaces are in contact. They are covered with a thin cuticle, like that of mucous membranes, and often exude a copious thin fetid discharge. They generally occur together with psoriasis or lepra. This affection is common in Ireland, where it is called button scurry, and is believed to be contagious ; which M. Ricord denies, unless it occurs on the site of a chancre which has been imperfectly healed. Syphilitic Sore Throat.—1. The mildest variety is a superfi- cial excoriation of the mucous membrane of the tonsils or some other part of the mouth or fauces, corresponding to psoriasis on the skin. The parts affected are swollen and sore ; sometimes red and raw, and sometimes covered with a white secretion, or with a patch of thickened epithelium. This state may be succeeded by a superficial ulceration. • This cut oxliibits the crusts of nipia; from a cast in tlio King’s College