•28 GENERAL PUENOMENA OF INFLAMMATION. which are commonly called inflammatory. Lastly, it may be felt in parts quite remote from any morbid action, or may be referred to parts of the body destitute of sensation (thus after fracture of the spine severe pain has been felt in the legs, though quite insensible to the touch) or may be referred to parts that have no existence, of which the pain felt in limbs long since amputated may be an example. The treatment of this condition will be found in Part IV., under the head of Neuralgia. CHAPTER III. OF THE GENERAL PHENOMENA OF INFLAMMATION. Defi.nition.—Inflammation maybe defined to be a state of altered nutrition, attended with increased vascularity and sensibility, and with a tendency to certain definite changes of structure. Sympto.ms.—The symptoms are redness, pain, heat, and swelling, with impaired function of the inflamed part; — and each of these symptoms requires a few observations in detail. (1.) The redness is owing to the increased quantity of blood in the inflamed part; the smallest capillaries being distended with red particles, and rendered visible to the naked eye. When inflammation is acute, the redness is of the bright scarlet tint of arterial blood; when chronic, it is of a darker venous hue ; and in certain specific inflamma- tions it is puqile or copper-coloured. Again, in common inflamma- tion, it is graduall}’’ diffused, and lost in the neighbouring parts, ivhilst in some forms of specific inflammation * it is abruptly circumscribed. (2.) The pain of inflammation may be attributed partly to a stretch- ing of the nerves bj' the distended blood-vessels, but chieflj' to that disorder in the vital actions, be it what it may, in which the essence of inflammation consists. It differs in its character and intensity ac- cording to the cause producing it, .and the part which is aftected. Thus it is burning or tingling in the skin ; throbbing in the cellular tissue ;* sharp and lancinating in the pleura; a mere sense of heat and soreness in the bronchi.al mucous membr.ane; and e.xtremely dull .and oppressing in a part supplied with ganglionic nerves; as the stomach, kidneys, or testicles. It is .alw.ays less severe if the fluid products of inflammation can readily escape, than if they are confined ;—and com- paratively slight if the part inflamed be yielding .and extensile, but most severe if it be hard and dense, as bone or ligament; .although these structures possess very little sensibility in health. It is some- times felt at a distance from the inflamed p.art; thus pain in the shoulder is often the first symptom of inflamed liver, and pain in the • Hunter’s Works by Palmer. Vol. ill. p. 330.