SCROFULOUS DISEASES. 100 ing a hard, red, painless tumour like a carbuncle. After a time it suppurates imperfectly, and it does not get well till the whole of the diseased part is destroyed by ulceration. 3rdly. A small hard tumour of unhealthy lymph may form in the cellular tissue, which after a time inflames, causes abscess, and then sloughs out. The treatment of the first variety is the same as that of chronic abscess generally. The two others should be left to themselves till they suppurate;—then it may be expedient, if there is a great piece of thin purple skin, to destroy it by potassa fusa; and the case afterwards comes under the head of scrofulous ulcer. III. Disease op the Lymphatic Glands,especially in the neck, is the commonest of scrofulous maladies. It appears from Mr. Phillips’s observations, that the first step is some degree of inflammator}’ en- largement, which, if it does not subside, is succeeded by a deposit of tubercle. The enlarged glands at first are perfectly indolent and pain- less. Thus they may remain for years stationary or slowly enlarging, till at length, from local irritation or disorder of the health, they in- flame, and chronic abscesses form between them and the skin. In some few cases after the abscess is opened, the cyst contracts and heals, the glands remaining nearlj’’ as before. But more generally, all the skin covering the abscess becomes red and thin, and ulcerates ; and the ulcer heals with an ugly puckered cicatrix, but not till the whole gland has wasted with suppuration. These swellings have been known to destroy life by compressing the tracheal or cervical vessels, or by bursting into them. Sometimes they undergo a cure by the chalky transfoiTnation before spoken of.* Treatment.—The health must be amended by the measures before detailed;—and an endeavour must be made to cause absorption, by : fomentation with hot salt water, or the zinc lotion, or cold poultices made with sea-weed,—by an occasional leech when irritated,—and ^ by painting with tincture of iodine or empl. hydrargyri when in- dolent. It may sometimes be expedient to extirpate one or more glands. But if suppuration occurs, and if the skin begins to redden, an opening should be made in the manner, and with the precautions, laid down in the section on chronic abscess. IV. Tabes Mesenterica, or Marasmus, consists in a tubercular disease of the mesenteric glands, .and of the follicles of the intestines, precisely similar in its course and phenomena to the same dise.ase in the cervical glands. The intestines inflame, adhere together, and ulcerate so that openings form between different convolutions ; and on examination the peritonaeum is found as thick as leather, and the intestines resembling a collection of cells rather than a simple tube. Symptoms.—Emaciation and voracity, owing to the obstructed course of the chyle ; the belly swelled and hard ;—the skin drj' and • Tubercle in the mesenteric and bronchial glands is more frequently found of the grayish translucent variety; and it softens and suppurates less frequently than in the cervic<al. It has moreover a greater tendency to the chalky trans- formation.—Vide Phillips, op. cit.