DIFFUSED CELLULAR INFLAMMATION. 68 pointing, nor walled in by adhesion. And they are not merely aper- tures for the discharge of matter; but a very effectual means of cutting short the inflammation, by relieving the tension, and by emptying the distended blood-vessels. They are also requisite in erysipelas of the throat, when great swelling threatens suffocation by pressure on the trachea. They should be made of sufficient length,—in as many places as required;—thej^ should be carried quite deeply through the diseased tissues, and should be repeated as often as necessary. Two, three, or four inches will be a sufficient length in most cases; but it can never be necessary to gash a limb from hip to ankle. They should not be permitted to bleed long;—and haniorrhage, if profuse, is best stopped by continued pressure with the fingers on the bleeding points. The subsequent measures are poultices, followed by nitric acid lotion; and bandages to prevent lodgment of matter and sinuses.* SECTION III.—ERYSIPELATOUS OR DIFFUSED INFLAMMATION OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. Syjiptoms.—This disease exhibits the symptoms of cellulo-cutane- ous erysipelas, without the affection of the skin. A rapidly-increasing swelling appears on one of the limbs, or on some part of the trunk. Its surface is tense, shining, and usually pale. When pressed upon, it feels in some cases hard and resisting, but more frequently it jnelds that peculiar, semi-elastic sensation described by the term hoygy, or quagyy. There is always most excruciating pain,—which in some cases is burning and throbbing, in others heavy and tensive. The disease is invariably attended with fever of an irritative or typhoid character. The pulse is always frequent; it ma}' be sharp and jerking, but is without strength and steadiness. The countenance is anxious and haggard;—the mind irritable and desponding, and delirious at in- tervals. Respiration is quick and laborious,—more especially if the disease be seated on the chest, as it frequently is,—because the pleura is affected through contiguous sympathy. In unfavourable cases, low muttering delirium, copious offensive perspiration, and jaundiced skin, usher in the fatal termination. Causes.—The predisposing causes of this disease are those of the other varieties of erysipelas. The exciting causes may be of the most trivial nature, if the patient be predisposed ; such as verj^ slight punc- tures or abrasions. This is the disease which is excited by the bites of venomous serpents;—and by inoculation -with septic animal poisons ; —especially by that which is generated in bodies recently dead ;—it also occasionally follows certain surgical operations, as lithotomy and the excision of piles. It is often combined with phlebitis. IMorbii) Anatomy.— On examination of the parts affected, at an * Vide James, op. cit.; Copland, Diet.; Higginbottom on Nitrate of Silver; Copland Hutchinson’s Surgical Observations ; the Lectures of Abemethy, and Cooper; and two Lectures by Velpeau, Med. Oaz., Aug. 14 and 21, 1840.