14 CHAPTER IV. OF TETANUS. SECTION I.—INTRODUCTORY. Definition.—Tetanus is a disease manifested by tonic* spasm and rigidity of some, or many, of the muscles of voluntary motion. Divisions.—(1.) It is divided into the idiopathic, or that which arises solely from some disorder of the system, and the traumatic, or that which is caused by a wound. (2.) It may be acute or chronic ; (3.) It may he general ov partial ; and when partial it is mostly con- fined to the neck and jaws, constituting irwiitas, or locked jaw. (4.) It is called opisthotonos, when the body is curved backwards, which it most commonly is ; emproslhotonos, when it is curved forward ; and pleurosthotonos, when it is drawn to one side, this being the most un- common.(a) (5.) The trismus infantum, or neonatorum, which attacks children soon after birth, is usuallj^ made a distinct species. (6.) Tetanus may in its type be intermittent, when it is caused by marsh miasmata, as it may be occasional!}’’, like almost every other nervous affection. (7.) Lastly, there is the hysterical tetanus; in which all the outward symptoms of tetanus are produced, as a consequence of an hysterical state of the system. SECTION 11. OF ACUTE TETANUS. Symptoms.—The patient first complains of stiffness and pain of the neck and jaws, as from a cold ; his voice is husky ; it is difficult for him to put out his tongue, and his countenance is observed to have a peculiar e.xpression, resembling a painful smile, because the corners of the mouth and eyes are distorted and puckered Ijy incipient spasm of the facial muscles. In the next place, the muscles of masti- cation and deglutition become fixed and rigid with spasm, so that the mouth is permanently closed, and there is great difficulty of swallow- ing, especially liquids. To these symptoms succeed a fixed pain at the pit of the stomach shooting to the back, and a convulsive difficulty of breathing, indicating that the diaphragm and muscles of the glottis are affected ; and the spasm now extends to the muscles of the trunk and limbs, rendering them completely fixed and rigid. The abdomen feels remarkably hard ; there is obstinate constipation, and frequently difficult micturition from spasm of the perinaial muscles; the pupils are contracted: and the saliva flows from the mouth, because the * Spasms are of two kinds: the tonic in wliich the rigidity is permanent; and the clonic, in wliich contraction alternates quickly with rciaxation, as in epilepsy .and hysteria. The small letters refer to a note at the end of the chapter.