223 DISEASES OF THE BONES. Spnptojns of A^ecrosis.—After acute inflammation, the bone remains permanently swelled ; and the apertures which were made for the dis- charge of matter, remain as sinuses, from which many sensitive, irri- table granulations shoot. These sinuous apertures in the skin corre- spond to holes in the shell of new bone (technically called cloaca) ;— and if a probe be passed into them, the sequestrum may be felt loose in the interior ; or at least the probe will strike against dead bone. Treatment.—The indication is to remove the sequestrum. Any hope of its being absorbed or extruded by any natural process, is quite nugatory; and to permit it to remain, is but to condemn the patient to a perpetuance of disease and deformity. As soon, therefore, as the shell of new bone is sufficiently strong, a free incision should be made so as to expose its surface, and it should be made at a part where cloaca exist, or where the bone is nearest the skin. Then the new shell must be perforated with the trephine, or with Hey’s saw, or with a pair of strong bone forceps ;—and the sequestrum must be drawn out. If it cannot be extracted entire, it should be divided with strong forceps, and each portion be extracted separately. If the sequestrum be small, or the cloacae large, the former may perhaps be extracted \vithout any cutting operation ; and one way of enlarging the cloacm is to dilate the sinuses in the skin, and keep them open with tents of lint. Mr. Stanley directs that as little as possible of the new bony shell should be removed, because it might not be replaced, and the bone be left too weak to be useful. Necrosis of the articular extremities of bones, or of the tarsus or carpus, generally causes irreparable disease of the neighbouring joints, and requires amputation. 2. Exfoliation signifies the mortification and separation of a superficial layer of bone, or of the ex- tremity of a bone—of a phalanx, or of the end of a bone after amputation, without the formation of a shell of new bone, for example, as in necrosis. It is generally caused by some mechanical or chemical injurj% or by stripping off the periosteum. Not, how- ever, that stripping off the periosteum is invariably followed by exfoliation ; for the bone may remain red and moist, and throw out granulations ; whereas if it be about to exfoliate, it becomes white and dry. Treatment.—A lotion of weak nitric acid may be useful ; and the exfoliating portion should be removed as soon as it can be detached. VII. Caries is an unhealthy inflammation of bone which first produces sofleniny, and then leads to ulceration and suppuration. Pathology.—Ihe bone is soft and red; its cells are filled with a red serous or thick glairy fluid, and with soft granulations and in scro- • This cut shows the extremity of the phalanx in the act of .separation by ex- foliation. At the part wliere tlie sejiaration is to occur, the cancclli are seen to be enlarged, so as to form a kind of dqjloii, and tlieir walls are tliin.