ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 3G name syncope, or fainiinp, is given. Now it requires to be understood, that this suspension of the heart’s action depends upon two cfiuses; first, on the abstraction of its natural stimulus, the blood ;—secondly, and principally, on a peculiar sedative influence transmitted to it from the brain, when the latter does not receive its due share of arterial blood. And although the mere loss of blood per sc may be of service (when that fluid is morbidly abundant) by relieving the system from a source of excitement, still the principal£ood effects of bleeding in in- ffammation depend on its sedative effects on the brain, and through the brain on the heart. And as it is often absolutely necessarj’ to bleed persons in acute diseases who are extremely debilitated, it is of importance to produce as much of that sedative effect with as little loss of blood as possible. Manner of Bleeding.—For this purpose the blood should be drawn as quickly as possible, from a large orifice ; and, above all, the patient should sit or stand upright. For if the blood is drawn slowlj', so that the vessels have time to adapt themselves to their diminished contents, or if the patient is in the recumbent posture, so as to assist the flow of blood to the brain, the bleeding maj' be continued almost to death without the occurrence of faintness. Quaniity to be taken.—As a geneml rule, the blood should be per- mitted to flow till paleness of the lips, lividity about the eyes, sighing, nausea, fluttering pulse, and relief of the pain, indicate the approach of syncope ; \i\\\, full syncope should always be avoided. Tolerance.—The tolerance, or power of bearing bleeding without fainting, varies according to the age, sex, and temperament of the patient, and to the epidemic conslitntion, or prevailing nature of disease. Thus in one period of years, diseases have an active sthenic character ; they require bleeding, and bear it well. In other periods of j^ears, of ^vbich the years 1847-50, are examples, disease of all kinds has a lo\v^sthenic character, and bleeding is not required and not tolerated. The tolerance is less generally in the very young and old than in the middle-aged ;—less in the female than in the male; —and less in the nervous and lymphatic temperaments than in the sanguine and phlegmatic. It is besides affected most remarkably by the existing disease. Thus it has been ascertained by Dr. ISIarshall Hall, that 15oz. is the average quantity that will produce syncope in a liealtTiy adult if bled whilst standing upright; but that in some diseases much more requires to be taken, and in others much less. The diseases in which bleeding is best borne, are inflammations of the head, or of other vital parts. Those in which it is most injurious and worst home, arc putrid fevers and diseases of debility. And so, an observation of the tolerance is sometimes a very important aid to diagnosis. Supposing a woman to complain of violent pain in the head or abdomen, which is suspected to be inflammatory ; if faintness occiu’s from the loss of a very small quantity of blood, it will be cer- tain either that it is not inflammatory, but nervous ;—or that, if in-