INFLAMMATORY FEVER. I in scarlet fever it is said to have risen so high as 110". Symptoms.—Sliivcring; succeeded by increased heat:* preterna- turally frequent, hard, and vibratory pulse ;—pain and aching in the head, back, and limbs, with a sense of lassitude and weakness ;— general deficiency of the secretions ; dry skin ; dry and white tongue ; thirst; nausea and loss of appetite ; constipation; scanty and high- coloured urine;-—the blood generally buffed and cupped;—slight aggravation of the symptoms in the evening, often delirium in the night, and slight remission in the morning. Ter.minations.—(1.) If the patient recover, the urine becomes more copious, and deposits a lateritious, or brick-dust, sediment; the tongue becomes moist and clean, the skin cool and perspiring: the local inflammation either is resolved, or proceeds to a healthy suppu- ration ; and the return of the appetite and of the other natural func- tions indicates the patient’s recovery. The fonnation of pus often ap- pears to be a natural crisis. (2.) But if from the irreparable nature of the disease or injury, or from the irritability of the system, life is destined to be destroj-ed, the pulse becomes continually more frequent, and subsequently weak, irregular, and intermittent, the extremities cold, and life soon ceases with the failure of the circulation. Treat.ment.—The treatment of this fever is included in that of acute inflammation, of which it is the shadow. But it must be ob- served in this place, that when it is sj'mptomatic of an inflammation that is unavoidable (as after a compound fracture, and most other severe injuries), it cannot be cut short, although its undue violence may be abated ;—and that great care should be taken not to weaken the patient too much by depletion, especially if the part injured be not of vital importance, and its reparation will require time and strength. The indications are, to allay vascular action and nervous irritation, and to restore the secretions. And the means are, rest, low diet, ape- rient and febrifuge medicines, anodynes at bed-time when the bowels have been cleared, and general or local bleeding, if demanded by the exigencies of the case. We must add that purgatives should be avoided when it is likely that they maj- occasion an injurious disturbance of any diseased or injured part, as a compound fracture, for instance. Of the Pulse.—It may be convenient to say a few words in this place about the pulse. The elements of the pulse are three ; namely, the contraction of the heart, which propels blood into the arteries; —secorullp, the yielding and dilatation of the artery, which when felt constitutes the pulse ;—and, thirdly, the return of the artery to its fonner calibre. Now some of the properties of the pulse depend on the heart, and some on the arteries. Thus its frequency and slowness correspond to the number of the heart’s contractions in a given time. • The increased heat of fever depends, according to Liebig, on an unnaturally napid transformation and oxydation of tlie animal tissues, by which an unna- tural amount of heat is generated, as well as of circulating force. Liebig’s Animal Chemistry by Gregory, p. 256. In ordinary fever, the heat of the blood does not ri.se more than three or four degrees above the natural standard ; but