495 ABSCESSES. blood is generally of a florid hue, and that it covers the faeces, but is not intimately mixed with them. Trealment.—1. If the haemorrhage is moderate in quantity, if it has been of habitual or periodic occurrence, if it induces no weakness, and if it brings relief to pain in the head, or any other feeling of dis- order, before suppressing it the patient must be made to adopt a course of exercise, temperance, and alterative and aperient medicines, with the view of removing the state of plethora that accompanies it. 2. But if the patient is weak and emaciated ; if the lips are pale, and the pulse feeble, the bleeding should be at once suppressed. (We may observe here, that whenever a patient applies for relief in consequence of violent palpitations and shortness of breathing, or giddiness and swimming in the head ; if the lips are pale, and the extremities tend to swell, the surgeon should always inquire for piles, because, as we before observed, some patients, through false delicacy, will not mention them.) Or if the bleeding, as sometimes happens, instead of relieving symptoms of heat and fulness in the rectum, aggravates them, the bleeding should also be stopped, whatever the patient’s complexion may be; and if he is of a full habit, he should live abstemiously, and keep the bowels open with Seidlitz powders. The means of checking hsemorrhage from the rectum are, 1. That piles, if any exist, should be cauterized with nitric acid, or be tied. 2. Astringent applica- tions, such as injections of dec. quercus, or F. 128, used cold. 3. The internal remedies most likely to be of service are salts of iron, or bark with sulphuric acid, or the balsams of copaiba and Peru. F. 9, 13, 14, &c. VII. Disch.vrge of Mucus—clear and viscid—without faecal odour, may be caused by piles, ascarides, the use of aloes, or any other causes of irritation to the rectum. To be treated by mild aperients, astringent injections, and copailia or cubebs. F. 37, 39, 13, &c. VIII. Abscesses near the rectum may be caused by the irritation of foreign bodies, or by caries of an adjacent bone, but they are much more frequently the result of the various causes of disordered circula- tion in the hcemorrhoidal vessels that were mentioned as producing piles, and especially of that morbid state of mucous membrane which accompanies pulmonary tubercle. They may either be large and deep- seated, or small and superficial. 1. Deep-seated abscesses are attended with great aching and throbbing, difficulty and pain in evacuating the faces, and fever, and on internal examination a fulness or fluctuation may be felt. If these abscesses are Jeft to themselves, a vast quantitj' of matter may accumulate in the loose cellular tissue of the pelvis, and severe irritative fever result from its confinement. 2. Superficial abscesses are attended with more or less pain, tenderness, and throb- bing, and swelling around the anus. They are often chronic, and often occur in the consumptive. Tivatment.—Leeches and fomentations may be tried at first, but if they do not ver}' soon remove the pain and tenderness, or if there is the least suspicion that matter is forming, a bistoury should be pushed