FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 486 Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi. p. 112. upwards and a little imvards, towards the spinous process of the pubes. It must be recollected, that if this incision were carried too far, the spermatic cord in the male, or round ligament in the female, would be injured. If, however, the stricture is not released by that incision, a few fibres of Gimbernat's ligament must be divided. The operation without opening the sac, is described bj'- Mr. Luke thus. After premising that the seat of stricture is sure to be at or near the femoral ring, and that it is sometimes caused by bands of fascia propria, half or three-quarters of an inch below the ring; and that the upper boundary of the tumour on the abdominal surface is often marked by a visible depression, or at least that it can be felt by the fingers; “ a fold of integuments,” he continues, “ is to be pinched up at that part, and divided by transfixing it with a narrow knife, so that the incision, when the skin is replaced, shall fall perpendicularly to the body, with its centre opposite to the depression referred to. By a few strokes of the scalpel the tendinous expansion of the abdominal muscles is to be laid bare; after which a finger should be introduced as far as Poupart’s ligament, between the tendinous expansion and the tumour, where the latter rises upon the former. The ligament being thus exposed, a hernia-director is guided under it b)^ the finger into the femoral ring, the margin of which may be safeh' and easily divided in an upward direction with a common probed bistour}', and the taxis applied in the usual waj% Should the margin of the ring have formed the stricture, the taxis for the most part succeeds very readily, and the operation is completed in a very short time. But should the stricture be caused by the bands of fascia propria referred to, the director will have passed over them as it entered the femoral ring, in which case any amount of division in an upward direction will be of no avail. When the taxis does not succeed readily, these bands of fascia may generally be suspected to be the cause of failure. The fact may be made sufficiently clear by introducing the finger upon the neck of the sac, under Poupart’s ligament, while the body of the sac is pressed between the fingers and thumb of the other hand, when it will be discovered that no impulse is communicated to it by such pressure. By a little attention the bands may be detected crossing the neck of the sac from half to three-quarters of an inch below the ring, and may be divided by insinuating the nail of the fore-finger of the left hand under them from above, and by carrying the point of a probed bistourj' along the nail, with its blunt edge towards the sac. The division is made by the surgeon drawing the bistoury away from the sac towards himscdf, a proceeding which, if properly performed, avoids all danger of wound- ing the sac or its contents.” * Mr. Gay's Operation.—An incision, rather more than an inch long, is made near the inner side of the neck of the tumour. The superficial fascia having been divided, the forefinger (of the left hand if the hernial tumour is in the right side, and vice versa) is to be passed