158 HYDROPnOBIA. Moreover, it appears that it may be communicated by contact of the dog’s saliva with the skin, or mucous membrane, without any wound or abrasion.* In a case related by Dr. Watson,f the dog’s tooth merely indented the skin of the back of the hand, but made no wound. Lastly, a point of more importance and uncertainty than any is, whe- ther the bite of an animal in health, or of one merely enraged, may not cause the disease ;—it is very certain at all events, that the bite of an animal will prove fatal, long before it exhibits any outward symp- toms of rabies. Sy.mptoms in Man.—At a variable period after a bite, or after some other mode of inoculation with the saliva of a rabid animal (which period is generally from five weeks to three months, sometimes much longer, possibly even one or two years) the attention of the patient is directed to a peculiar pain of the wounded part, together with slight heat, redness, and swelling. The pain is observed to shoot in the course of the nervous trunks, and has in general a rheumatic character. Sometimes, instead of it, there is a stillness or numbness, or partial palsy. In some cases it is unattended with redness or swell- ing ;—in others, on the contrar}^ the wound has thoroughly inflamed, and has broken out into suppuration afresh, although healed long liefore. In some instances these premonitory sj-mptoms have not appeared at all,—or have been so slight as to pass unheeded ;—in a few instances the)* have not appeared till after the accession of the genuine hydrophobic symptoms ;—but in general thej' .are observed from two to five days previously to the actual symptoms of hydro- phobia. Of these, the first is a vague feeling of uneasiness and anxiety. The patient finds himself generally unwell ; his mind is irritable, and his countenance gloomy ;—he experiences a succession of chills and flushes, with transient headache ; the appetite fails ; there is fre- quently vomiting, and sometimes a well-marked accession of fever. Next, the sufferer complains of stiffiiess of the neck and soreness of the throat, with severe spasmodic pain at the epigastrium, — the respiration also is embarrassed, and frequently interrupted by sighing. But these symptoms are in most cases attributed to cold, and their real nature is not suspected for a day or two, till, all on a sudden, on attempting to drink, the patient is seized with a fit of suffocating spasm, and manifests extreme horror at the sight of fluids. The most prominent symptoms that henceforth present themselves, arc three, viz. difficulty of breathing and swallowing;—extreme irri- tability of the body;—and peculiar disorder of the mind. (a.) The difficulty of hrealhing and swallowing depends on spasm of the muscles of the pharynx and larynx. Sometimes the patient can swallow neither solids nor liquids ; but more frequently the disability extends to liquids only; because they require a greater exertion of afterwards, although tliey had not been bitten by the dog, nor, as was supposed, by the mothers.—Steele, Med. Gaz., Oct. 25th, 1839. * Hutchinson, Lancet, Dec. 8th, 1838. t Lectures, Med. Gaz., May 7th, 1841.