ULCERS ABOUT THE NAILS. 563 the toe outwards. The ligaments of the joint are thus stretched and thickened, the joint is rendered unnaturally prominent and subjected to pressure and friction, a bursa forms over it, and there is a constant state of tenderness and pain, varied with fits of inflammation. Treatment.—The patient must wear proper shoes, so arranged as not to press on the tender part. Mr. Key recommends the great toe to be kept in its proper place b)’' means of a partition in the stocking f 0 like the finger of a glove, and a partition of strong cow’s leather fixed "I in the sole of the shoe. But it is almost an impossibility for a person f who walks about to use such contrivances. A mercurial plaster on soft leather often gives great comfort. If the bursa inflame, it must be treated by rest, leeches and poultices, in order to avoid suppuration and the necessity of a puncture, which is sure to lead to an inveterate fistula; for which Mr. Key says that a weak solution of creosote is the best application.* VI. Contraction of the Fingers generally depends on short- ening and rigidity of the palmar aponeuroses and tendinous sheaths, or on a ligamentous degeneration of the cellular tissue on the palmar aspect of the fingers. Treatment.—Friction with oily liniments, and extension upon splints, may be of some service. But the following operation will be of more : a longitudinal incision may be made through the skin on the palmar surface of the first phalan.x, then the edges of the wound being held asunder, a curved bistoury may be passed under the contracted tissues so as to divide them. If any of the muscles of the fore-arm ai'e rigid, their tendons may be divided by a narrow knife as in the operation for club-foot. VII. Webbed Fingers.—This is a deformity consisting of an union of the fingers to each other. It may be congenital, or may be caused by burns. It is a most intractable aft'ection. Mere division of the connecting skin is not often of any avail, for the fingers almost inevitably grow together again when the wound he.als. In order to counteract their union, a flap of skin may either be brought from the dorsum of the hand and be engrafted between the fingers, or, as ]\Ir. Liston proposes, a perforation may tirst of all be made in the con- necting skin near the roots of the fingers, and be prevented from closing by keeping a piece of cord in it till the edges have healed, and then the remainder of the connexion may be divided. VIII. Ulcers about the nails.—1. A very common and trou- blesome affection is that which is popularly termed “ the (jrowih of the nail into the Jteshf and which most usually occurs by the side of the great toe. It does not, however, arise from any alteration in the nail, as its name would imply, but the contiguous soft parts are first swelled and inflamed by constant pressure against its edge from the use of tight shoes. If this state be permitted to increase, suppuration occurs, and an ulcer is formed with fungous and exquisitely sensible granula- • Vide Key on Bunion, Guy’s Hosp. Rep. vol. i.; and Fergusson’s Practical Surgery, p. 252.