POISON OP SERPENTS. 146 the Abbe Fontana who ascertained that it is a yellow viscous liquid, not inflammable, and neither acid nor alkaline ;—that it con- tains no salts; and that it has no taste, except perhaps, a slight astringent sensation if it is kept in the mouth for some time. It is not hurtful to another viper, nor does it appear to affect certain cold- blooded animals, as leeches and frogs. Moreover, it is perfectly harm- less if applied to any natural mucous or cutaneous surface ;—so that large quantities of it have been swallowed with impunity. Cobra di Capello.—Dr. Russell found that this was capable of killing a ser])ent called Nooni Parogoodo, but not another cobra ; and tliat its poison was insipid when taken into the mouth, and productive of no ill consequences when applied to the eyes of chickens. The symptoms produced on animals bitten by it are fainting and convul- sions, but no swelling ; the lungs were stuffed with blood.t Naia Tripudians, hooded snake of Ceylon. Dr. Davy found that its poison tastes acrid, paral3’’se8 the iris and levator palpebrm of fowls when applied to their ejms, and is soon exhausted by biting. It acts chiefly on the lungs, which are foimd gorged with blood and serum; the symptoms being reduction of the animal temperature and prostration of strength. According to the same authority, the Trigono- cephaltis hypnale, or Carawilla, has a poison that is mild, but not soon exhausted ; that it produces local inflammation chieflj^, and can kill frogs, but not large animals.— The Vipera Elegans, or tic polonga, soon causes death by convulsions ; the blood is much coagulated.:};' Rattlesnake.—This snake, unlike most others, is capable of poisoning itself. Capt. Hall made one bite itself, and it died in eight minutes. Its effects, according to Sir E. Home, may be divided into two stages, either of which may prove fatal. During theyirst, which may last for sixty-two hours, the symptoms are those of great pro- stration of the nervous system, and contamination of the blood;— vomiting, deadly coldness, faltering pulse, the skin livid or jaundiced, bleeding from the nose, fainting fits, convulsions, and delirium. Mean- while the bitten part swells immensely from effusion of acrid senim, and becomes mottled with blood, extravasated under the skin; and this swelling extends to the trunk. Sometimes it is attended with ex- cruciating pain, sometimes with mere numbness or coldness. During the second stage, large diffused abscesses form in the swelled parts, which contain bloody unhealthy pus and sloughs of cellular tissue, and are attended with low fever. After death, the body putrefies veiy rapidly.^ * Felix Fontana, Treatise'on the Venom of the Viper ; translated by Joseph Skinner. 2nd edit. Lend. 1795. t Patrick Bussell, M.D., F.R.S. An Account of Indian Serpents. 2 vols. folio. Lond. 1796. t D.avy, Physiological Researches. Lond. 1839. § Sir Everard Home. Pliil. Trans, vol. c. Case of T. Soper, who was bitten by a rattlcsake. Hall on the Poison of Rattlesnakes, Phil. Trans, vol.xxx. p. 309. Ca.se of Mr. J. Briental, who was bitten by a rattlesnake, reported by himself, Phil. Trans, vol. xliv. p. 147. Case of a man bitten by a rattlesnake to cure lepra, Clarke, Lancet, Dec. 15, 1838.