452 PNETJMOTnORAX. are of no very long duration. If they fail, or if the case is congenital, division of the sternal origin of the muscle (or perhaps of the clavicu- lar also) is the last resource. It is best performed thus:—The skin covering the muscle at about an inch from the sternum is to be pinched up between the left fore-finger and tluimb. A narrow curved bistoury is then to be thrust under the muscle, and is to be made to divide it as it is being withdrawn ; but the wound in the skin must only be large enough to admit the instrument. The aperture may be made at the anterior border of the right muscle, and between the sternal and clavicular portions of the left. As soon as the division is complete, the ends of the muscle retract with a dull snap, and the thumb should be pressed on the part, to prevent effusion of blood under the skin. When the wound is healed, but not before, an apparatus should be applied to elongate the callus, and restore the neck to its proper position. A stiff collar to the diseased side is the simplest and best apparatus. 3. Lastly, this distortion may be caused by palsy of one stemo- mastoid muscle, in consequence of which, the other muscle, being uncontrolled, drags the neck permanently to its own side. If the administration of remedies calculated to remove any existing disease in the head or back, and to improve the health, and if strychnine, misters, issues, and electricity fail, division of the sound muscle has been recommended.* CHAPTER XVI. OF THE SURGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE CHEST. I. Pneumothorax signifies a distention of the cavity of the pleura with air, and collapse of the lung. It is known by the following sjTuptoms: On the affected side there is an absence of the respir.a- torj’^ murmur, with an exceedingly clear sound on percussion, and immobility of the ribs; and there is puerile respiration on the other side. It may be caused, 1, by a fractured rib which has lacerated the lung—and in this case it is attended with emphysema, as has been detailed at page 247. 2. It may be caused by the bursting of an abscess of the lung into the cavity of the pleura. This case will be indicated by suceussion, and by metallic thiUing, in addition to the signs mentioned above. Suceussion simply consists in making the patient shake himself, when (inasmuch as both air and fluid have escaped from the lung into the pleural cavity) the fluid will be heard • Vide Cases of Wr3aicck, <kc. by Dieflenbach, in tbe Lancet for Sept. 1S38. Gooch gives a case of wryneck and distortion of the jaw caused hy contraction of tlie platysma myoides, and cured hy division of that muscle, in ttie year 1759.