411 EniNO-PLASTIO OPERATIONS. angular piece of leather should be cut into the shape which the nose for- merly presented, and be spread out flat on the forehead, with its base uppermost, and its boundaries should be marked out on the skin with ink. Then tlie remains of the old nose (if any) are to be pared, and the margins of the nasal aperture are to be cut into deep narrow grooves. When the bleeding from these wounds has ceased, the flap of skin marked out on the forehead is to be dissected up, and all the cellular tissue down to the periosteum with it, so that it may hang attached, merely by a narrow strip of skin between the eyebrows. When all bleeding has ceased, the flap is to be twisted on itself, and its edges are to be fitted into the grooves made for their reception, and to be fastened with sutures. The nose thus made is to be supported, but not stulfed, with oiled lint; it should be wrapped in flannel to support its tenipei-ature, and if it become black and tm-gid, owing to a deficiency in the return of blood from it, a leech may be applied. When adhesion has thoroughly taken place, the twisted strip of skin, by which its connexion with the forehead was maintained, may be cut through, or a little strip may be cut out of it, so that it may be laid down smoothly. 2. Tile septum or columna nasi is often restored by the same operation with the nose itself, by means of a flap from the forehead ; but it is better, as Mr. Liston proposes, to form it out of the upper lip at a subsequent operation. A strip is cut out of the centre of the upper lip, a quarter of an inch in breadth, and of its whole thickness. The frsenulum having been divided, this strip is turned up, but not twisted; and its labial surface having been pared otf, and the inside of the apex having been made raw, the two latter surfaces are united by the twisted suture, and the wound of the lip is also united by the same. During the cure, the nostrils must be kept of their proper size b}’ introducing silver tubes occasional!}'. 3. When one ala nasi alone is destroyed, a portion of integument may be measured out on the cheek, and be raised to supply the defi- cienc}'. Hut if both ala; are lost, or if the cheek be spare and thin, it is better to supply their place with skin brought from the forehead. The slip which connects the engrafted portion with the forehead will of course be long and thin; and in order to maintain its vitality, a groove may be made to,receive it on the dorsum of the nose. But when union has occurred, this connecting slip may be raised and cut off, and the groove which contained it be united by sutures. 4. Depression of the apex of the nose is to be remedied liy raising the parts, dividing any adhesions that may have formed, making, if necessary, a new columna, in the manner described above, and sup- porting the parts carefully with plugs of lint, till they have acquired firmness. But it may be done still more completely by a method which was proposed by Dieffenbacb, and a modification of which has been practised with great success by Mr.W. Fergusson. “ The point of a small scalpel,” s-ays Mr. Fergusson, “ was introduced under the