604 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. likewise—it being first scratched through, so that the finger may be introduced between it and the peritonaeum—to divide it upon. The peritonaeum must now be detached by the fingers from the iliac fossa, as far as the brim of the pelvis, where the external iliac artery will be found beating—and by following this vessel upwards, the operator will come upon the internal or common iliac, or the aorta. The edges of the wound being now held asunder by copper spatula, the arter}' to be tied must be separated from its vein with the nail of the forefinger or the flat end of a probe, and the aneurism needle be passed round be- tween it and the vein. It will be recollected that the common iliac veins lie behind and to the right of their respective arteries—that the left internal iliac vein is behind its artery—and that the right is a little external as well as posterior. The internal iliac may require to be tied for disease or injury of the glutasal or other branches outside the pelvis. XIII. The External Iliac artery may be tied, according to Sir A. Cooper’s method, by making a semi-lunar incision (with the con- vexitj' looking downwards and outwards) from near the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium to the superior angle of the external abdominal ring. This incision will be nearly parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and about an inch above it. The skin, superficial fascia, and tendon of the external oblique having been divided, the lower margin of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles must be raised on the finger and be detached from Poupart’s ligament, the fascia transver- salis must be carefully scratched through, and then, if the finger is passed back under the spermatic cord, it will come in contact with the artery. The dense cellular tissue connecting the artery with the vein (which lies on its internal and posterior aspect) must be scratched through, and the needle be passed between them.* XIV. The Femoral artery may be tied in any part of its course from Poupart’s ligament downwards, but the best spot for the ligature, when performed for popliteal aneurism, is just above the part where the vessel is overlapped by the sartorius—some little distance below the origin of the profunda. The patient being placed on his back, with the knee slightly bent, and the limb turned outwards, an incision must be made through the skin in the course of the vessel—which, it will be recollected, corresponds to a line drawn from the middle of Poupart’s ligament to the inner edge of the patella. The incision may commence two inches below the groin, but its length must depend on the thick- ness of the parts to be divided. It is better to make it too long than too short. The cellular tissue must next be dissected down to the fascia lata—avoiding the saphenic vein. If any glands are in the * This artery was tied by Mr. Partridge, in tlie King's College Hospital, in November 1846, for aneurism of the common femoral, in a patient only 23 years old. It was tied by Mr. Thomas Nunn, in .lanuary 1849, for aneurism of the common femoral, and by Mr. H. Smith, in August ISoO, for aneurism of the superficial femoral high up. The ligature came awtiyon the twenty-eighth day All three patients did well.