SPINA BIFIDA. 349 There is further, a great variety in the amount of inconvenience at- tending it. Sometimes it is combined with congenital hydrocephalus; sometimes with club-foot; sometimes with more or less palsy of the legs, or incontinence of urine (which sj'mptoms are easily accounted for by the wasted and com- pressed condition in which the cord and its nerves are often found), whilst in other cases there are none of these incon- veniences, unless the tumour is compressed or inflamed. Treatment.—We have been thus minute in describing the real nature of this disease, in order to deter the surgeon from mischievous attempts at curing what must almost inevitably be an incurable malady. We read of cases in which the tumour has been cut olf, and the edges united by twisted suture ; or, in which it has been included in a ligature and tightly tied ; but these plans will not be readily adopted by any one who would rather not open the spinal membranes, or injure the cauda equina. The operation of puncture, too, is generally fol- lowed by speedily fatal results. Therefore, we think the sur- geon’s wisest plan is, merely to apply moderate support by means of a hollow truss, or some such contrivance, so as to counteract that tendency to etfusion which there alwa3's is when the natural pressure on any part of the body is taken awaj'.f If the swelling increase very fast, and the surgeon is inclined to try the eflect of a puncture, he should, at all events, strictly observe the following rules laid down by Mr. P. Hewett. 1st. “ The tumour should never be punctured along the mesial line, especially in the sacral region ; for it is generally at this point that tile cord and its nerves are connected with the sac. The puncture is to be made at one side of the sac, and at its lowest part, so as to diminish the risk of wounding any of the nervous branches. •2nd. “ The instrument ought to be a needle or a small trocar ; ♦ Represents the tumour formed iii spina bifida. From tlic King’s Coilego collection. t See a successful case treated by Sir A. Cooper in this way. Mod. Cliir. Trans, vol. ii.