APPENDIX OF FORMULA. C37 91. Rubefacient Solution of Iodine. R. lodinii ?iv.; potnssii iodidi 5].; aquiB destillatse Misce. To touch very indolent sores, the edges of the eyelids, ozeena, ^ c. 92. Caustic Solution of Iodine. R. lodinii, potassii iodidi aa 51. ; aqnse destillatse fjij. Misce. To destroy weak granulations, ragged edges of sores, 4'c. • 93. Iodine Bath. Should contain, for children, half a grain of iodine to each quart of warm water; and, for adults, one drachm to twenty-five gallons. The body may be immersed ten minutes.* 94. Iodide of Potassium with Bitters. R. Potassii iodidi gr. xij.; extracti gentianse 9ij. Misce, et divide in pilulas duodecim, R. Potassii iodidi 9j.; infusi gentian® compositi fjvss,; tinctura? aurantii fSij. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta ter die. 95. Iodide of Potassium with Alkali. R. Potnssii iodidi gr. xij.; potass® bicarbonatis 5j.; [vel liquoris potass® f3ij.); sympi f^Ts.; aqu® f^vis. Misce. Dosis f^j. bis die. 96. Iodide of Potassium with Colchicum. I\. Potassii iodidi 9j.; potass® bicarbonatis 3j.; vini colchici f5ift.; syrupi f5ij.; mixtur® camphor® fjviifs. Misce. Dosis, pars sexta, ter vel quater die. 97. Arsenical Mixture. R. Liquoris arsenicalis ll^xx.—xxx.; syrupi f5iij.; tinctur® car- damomi f?iij.; aqu® destillat® f^vfi. Misce. Dosis fjj. ter die, statim post cibum.f * Vide Essays on the Effects of Iodine in scrofulous diseases, by Lugo!; translated by O’Shaughnessy; London, 1831. t Mr. Hunt, of Herne Hay, who has had probably greater experience in the use of arsenic than any other man living, gives the following rales for its ad- ministration. “ It should never be given when there is any feverishness ; never on an empty stomach ; never in increasing doses, the largest dose ever required being n-^ v. of Fowler’s .solution three times a day. The first effect to be looked for is an itching or smarting of the conjunctiva, and swelling and puffinoss of the lower eyelid ; upon which the dose should be reduced to three minims. If the conjunctiva continues much inflamed, the dose should be again reduced; but