493 HAEMORRHOIDS. poultices ; and enomata of warm water, if the anus is not too tender to bear the introduction of the pipe, are tlie requisite measures. Cold lotions of lead (with a little laudanum) may be substituted for the warm applications, if more comfortable. If there is a tense bluish solid tumour, evidently containing coagulated blood, it may bo punc- tured; but perhaps it is bettter not to do so. Local Treatment.— 1. The first and most essential measure is per- fect cleanliness. Mr. Mayo directs the anus to be well washed with yellow soap and water after each motion—and if the piles are internal, and protrude during evacuations, they should be washed before they are returned. 2. Astrinyents—-the zinc lotion, F. 117; or iron lotion, which is particularly recommended by Mr. Vincent, F. 128; or unguentum gallm, to which latter a little of the li([. plumbi diac. maj'be advantageously added, F. 182, are generally of benefit. Dr. Burne recommends an ointment composed of pulv. hcllebori nigri 3j adipis ^j, which he says never fails of affording great relief, although exceedingly painful for a time. 3. Pressure by means of a bougie introduced occasionally—or a pad of ivory with or without a spring, made to bear against the anus with a T bandage, are often of service. There is an instrument consisting of a short egg-shaped ivory bougie, which is introduced into the anus, and which is attached by a slender neck to an ivory pad—so that pressure is thus made both internally and externally, that is extremely useful in cases of internal piles with relaxed mucous membrane, and tendency to prolapse. But probably the most speedy and effective means of affording re- lief in cases of internal piles is the nitric acid which was originally recommended by Dr. Houston in order to destroy the tender, tumid, and bleeding surface of mucous membrane which covers them, and which is the source of their excessive irritability and haemorrhage. The bowel having been protruded, the diseased surface is to be wiped with lint, and then, a portion of it, the size of a sixpence, to be smeared with a smooth wooden stick dipped into the concentrated acid; and then pure olive oil, or hog’s lard, is to be applied cnpiousljq in order to prevent the caustic being too widely diffused, and the parts to be returned within the sphincter. The patient should go to bed, and the bowels be kept quiet by opium for forty-eight hours; and when the slough caused by the acid separates, the surface generally cicatrizes speedily, and leaves the part braced up by its contraction. It is difficult to exaggerate the benefits of this plan of treatment. ' It seldom emses pain or any ill consequence. The author has by two applications of it, relieved a patient perniancnth'- of pain and hannorrhage which had lasted for years, and which on the average caused the patient to lose two hours’ time every morning, by render- ing him incapable of attending to anything save his own miserable sensations. A few days after the use of the acid, the patient should inject a drachm of Vincent’s iron lotion, F. 128, every day after I defaecatinn. We may add, that Mr. Fergusson has invented a specti- lum ani, made of glass, silvered, and covered with a smooth preparation