HEALTHY OR HEALING ULCER. SECTION II.—OF THE VARIETIES OF ULCERS. *c Definition.—It is not easy to give a rigorous definition of the term tilcer, nor is it necessary. For all useful purposes, it will suffice to say, that it signifies a chasm on the surface of any organ caused by the destruction of a portion of its substance by disease; or by an injury which has not been repaired. Ulcers present many varieties, which may be classed under three heads. 1. Healing.—They may be in a state tending to reparation ; as the healthy ulcer. 2. Stationary.—Their surface may have an im- perfect form of organization, under which they maj^ be [incapable of healing, though they are not necessarily spreading; the weak and in- dolent ulcers are examples. 3. Spreading.—They may be under the influence of the destructive process which formed them originallj", and which is still causing them to spread ; as the phagedmnic. I. The Healthy or Healing Ulcer is nothing more than a healthy granulating and cicatrizing surface. The granulations are small, numerous,florid, and pointed, and yield a moderate secretion of healthy pus. The edges are smooth, and covered with a white or bluish semi-transparent pellicle, which is gradually lost on the mar- gin of the granulations. Treatment.—The only treatment required will be a little dry lint, if there be much discharge,—or the water-dressing, or simple ointment, if there be not. If there be not much discharge, the dressings should not be changed more frequently than every second or third day. If the granulations are too luxuriant, they may be touched with lunar caustic, and dressed with dry lint. If the granulating surface is very extensive, or if all applications disagree with it, as sometimes happens, it will be expedient to form a scab on its surface. This may be done by allowing the pus to dry, or by sprinkling a little flour, or cala- mine, or chalk, to absorb it. But the best plan in these cases is to pass a stick of lunar caustic over the surface of the sore, as recom- mended by Mr. Higginbottom. This salt instantly coagulates the fluids on the sore, and forms a white pellicle, which soon becomes dry and black, and is much less irritating than an ordinarj' scab. If the scab act favourably, suppuration ceases, and cicatrization will be found complete when it is detached. No other dressing is required, except a piece of gold-beater’s skin, and a slight bandage, to prevent injury. If pus continue to be formed, a small hole should be made in the middle of the scab to let it out. II. The Inflamed Ulcer has already been described. Causes.—Ulcers (though not originally formed by inflammation) are liable to inflame from any of the ordinary local or constitutional causes, especially errors in diet. Sores situated over projecting parts of bones or ligameirts, as the outer ankle, or over the bellies of mrrscles, are apt to assunre this character ; hence care should be taken to avoid making issues in such situations.