DISEASES OF THE 262 sarsaparilla should be given in abundance. F. 82, 83. In all these cases, warm baths, in whicli a quantity of carbonate of soda or potass has been dissolved, will probably be of service. II. Chronic Inflammation of the synovial membrane is charac- terized by swelling of the joint, of the same nature that attends the acute form, and by a dull aching ■pain, accompanied with a sense of weakness and relaxation, and not usually aggravated by pressing the articular surfaces against each other. The swelling always conies on in a few days after the pain ; and sometimes, in long continued cases of an indolent character, it is the only symptom present; these cases are called hydrops articuli or hydrarihus. If the disease proceed, the synovial membrane and surrounding tissues may become thickened and gristly, and the swelling lose its softness and fluctuation; and, in neglected cases, the inflammation may lead to ulceration of the car- tilages and destruction of the joint. The causes are the same as those of the acute form, of which it may be a sequel. Treatment.—The indications are, first, to correct constitutional dis- order ; secondly, to reduce inflammation; and thirdl}', to produce absorption of the effusion and thickening, and restore the part to its proper uses. In the first place, therefore, if the complaint is constitutional, and depends on gout, it must be treated by colchicum and wann aperients, especially the decoction of aloes and alkalis. F. 70, 94, &c. If the habit is rheumatic, colchicum, or the iodide of potassium, must be resorted to ; and in most cases, especially those following syphilis or gonorrhoea, warm-bathing, change of air, sarsaparilla, and a most care- fully regulated diet, avoiding all heavy, innutritions, acescent, or indi- gestible substances, will be indispensable. See Part II. chap. V. Secondly, in cases arising from local injury ; whilst there is any activity about the inflammation (especially an increase of aching pain at night), the part should be confined by a splint or starched bandage, and should be bathed with cold lotions, and blood should be repeat- edly taken by leeches or cupping. Mild alteratives should also be administered, F. 63, &c. The third indication is to be fulfilled by counter-irritants, beginning with blisters; which are as service.able in the chronic as they are detri- mental in the acute disease. They should be applied in succession, and be quickly healed up ; and should not bo put too near the joint, if it is superficial, as the knee. The strong acetum cantharidis will often be found a very convenient substitute. After the blistering, when the activity of the disease has subsided, the iodine paint; the tartar-emetic ointment ; the linimentum hydrargyri ; or liniments of cantharides, ammonia, and turpentine; or of croton oil, F. 143, &e.; the douche, or affusion with hot water ; and the vapour bath will complete the cure. But all stimulating applications must beat once abandoned, if they cause an aggravation of heat and pain. The ointment of Scott, F. 160, the ccratum Injdrargyri comp, of the pharmacopoeia, is one of the most useful applications for the convale.scent stage of this and