242 FRACTURES OF THE IIU.MERUS. and there be retained by a figure of 8 bandage, and by keeping the humerus close to the side. Treatment of Fractured Humerus.—Jn all cases it is advisable that the patient be confined to bed for a week or a fortnight, and par- ticularly if the fracture be at the upper extremity of the bone, which latter accident will probably be followed by great pain and swelling, and require leeches, fomentations or cold lotions, purgatives, and opitites. The band and forearm must be well and evenly bandaged, to prevent oedema, and the fracture be set, by steadying the shoulder, whilst the elbow is drawn downwards. Next, a long carefully-padded hollow splint should be placed on the inner side of the limb, bearing well agftinst the axilla and the internal condyle; a second on the outer side from the acromion to the outer condyle, and perhaps a third and fourth, shorter, of pasteboard, before and below. These must be fast- ened by bands of firm webbing, buckled. Then the arm being placed easily bj' the side,* a firm broad band must be passed round the body, so as to confine the elbow to the side, and a sling put on to relieve the weight of the hand and forearm comfortablj', but not to thrust up the elbow. In all cases the surgeon should take care to have the parts well washed with soap and water, before the splints are put on, and whenever they are shifted ; otherwise the confined perspiration may cause an intolerable itching, which tempts the patient at night to loosen the bandages. The maxim “ de minimis non curat lex " must be reversed as regards the healing art. When the upper extremity of the bone is the seat of fracture it is often difficult to apply any apparatus that shall tell upon the fragments, prevent defonnity, and keep the arm at rest. The author, in such a case, gets a purchase from the opposite axilla, thus: The middle of a long piece of firm webbing is sewn on to the top of the inner splint which is well padded on both sides. This is crossed over the other splint, to the edges of which it is fastened by a strong needle and thread. The ends are then brought, one before, the other behind the neck to the opposite shoulder, where they cross over a large pad, and finally are attached to another large pad under the axilla. This secures the repose of the entire shoulder, if the elbow bo pro- perly secured as well. Sometimes instead of the outer splint a firm well- fitting shoulder-cap of leather may be put on, being secured by a strap passing under the opposite axilla, and being likewise buckled round the humerus, close under the axilla. In one case, hlr. Tyrrell was obliged to keep the arm at right angles with the side, b}' means of a splint like the letter L upside down; and the surgeon's ingenuity will often be taxed to devise means suited for particular cases. At the e.xpiration of about five weeks the patient may be allowed * In fracture of humerus, just below the insertion of the deltoid, that muscle is apt to luiike the upper fragment project; but if the surgeon take care tliat the limb hang easily by the side of the body, this will soon cease.—Vincent, p. 13.