DISEASES OP THE SPINE. 34C leg of the diseased side, or to extend it fairly on the pelvis should he looked for. The diagnosis is further alluded to in the chapters on Aneurism and Hernia. Treatment.—The first indications are, to procure absorption of the matter, to keep up the health, and to remedy the spinal disease. If the tumour enlarges and threatens to hurst in spite of these measures it must be treated in the manner directed for larne chronic abscess, p. 61. IV. Spinal Iriutation.—The practitioner ought to be aware that portions of the spinal column are liable to fall into a peculiar state of irritation and congestion, and to give rise to various trains of symptoms, which cause immense perplexity and trouble, unless traced to their proper source. Thus, for example, patients may complain (1) of all kinds of disordered sensation in the skui, varjdng between the limits of the most exquisite sensibility, and the most utter numbness and insensibility, and including every variety of creeping, shooting, coldness, formication, tingling, and so forth ; or, 2, the}' may com- plain of genuine neuralgic pains, shooting accurately in the course of the nerves, and intermittent or continuous ; or, 3, they may suffer from spasm, or tremor, or cramp, or palsy of any of the voluntary muscles of the limbs ; or, 4, from fixed pain and tenderness, with perhaps some little swelling of a joint, or of the mamma, or testicle ; or, 5, they may suffer from the same kind and amount of irritation and disordered sensation in any internal organ ; such as vertigo, ner- vous asthma, palpitation of the heart, great flatulence and pain in the stomach or bowels, &c. Now, as we observed before, when treating of neuralgia (p. 325), since the great object is to get at the sotirce of these symptoms, the spine should always be examined to ascertain whether it is there ; and more especially since it is very seldom that the patient in these cases malces any complaint of the back. The best method of exami- nation is, to make a firm pressure on each of the spinous processes, or to pass a sponge wrung out of hot water over them ; and then the patient will probably complain of severe pain over one vertebra. Should this be the case, all the symptoms will probably vanish like t magic if leeches be applied to the tender spot, and be followed by a i' blister, or a stimulating liniment, or a plaster containing tartarised ^ antimony. » These symptoms may be present along with lateral curvature of the . spine ; but it does not appear that the two affections have any con- * nexion, and one may be relieved without relieving the other. Mere ^ spinal irritation may be distinguished from incipient caries, by atten- / tion to the general signs which distinguish functional from organic ^ disease ; in particular by noticing that the patient seldom complains of { any pain in the hack, and by the length of time the symptoms last ^ without the occurrence of abscess or angular deformity.*' * * Vide Toale’s Treatise on Neuralgic diseases, Lend. 1829.