387 DISEASE OF THE CHOROID. become opake, the eye protrude from the socket, and the whole globe suppurate. The digestive organs are generally much deranged from the first, and hectic and emaciation come on when the eye becomes much distended and painful. Treatment.— If an acute case of the sort should occur in a strong constitution, local bleeding, purgatives, tartar emetic ointment to the nape of the neck, and warm or vapour baths, and mercury may be necessary’. But in cases of debility, great caution must be used in regard to depleting measures and mercury; and together with the lat- ter some tonic should be given. Counter-irritation is always of service. When the sclerotic becomes much distended, it may be punctured with a needle—the instrument being introduced for one-eighth of an inch towards the centre of the eye, so as not to wound the lens; this will cause temporarj’' relief. II. Weakness of Sight ; Muscaj Volitantes. Persons of de- licate constitutions and sedentary habits, especially if they are in the habit of writing much, or otherwise exerting their eyes on minute ob- jects, are liable to suffer from dimness of sight; uneasiness on exposure to a strong light ; and the vision of floating black specks or streaks, which from their resemblance to flies, have acquired the name of muBCiB volitantes. These symptoms evidently depend on weakness of organi-» zation, either original or produced by over exertion ; and the principal' measures to be adopted are tonics, aperients, shower-bathing, and change of air, with perfect rest of the eyes, which afterwards should not be used too long at a time. Weakness of sight, with intolerance of light, is very commonly an accompaniment of short sight; it may always be recognised by an uneasy bashful look about the patient’s eyes, the lids of which are half-closed, and perpetually winking, and the brow contracted. The nuisca; volitantes are supposed to depend on a distension of the vessels of the choroid ; if there is a permanent black spot, it probably depends on a permanent varicosity of some branch. III. Synchysis is an unnatural fluidity of the vitreous humour, which may or may not be also discoloured. The eye feels soft and flaccid, the iris is peculiarly tremulous, shaking backwards and for- wards like a rag in a bottle of water, the retina becomes insensible, and the lens opake. This affection is sometimes the result of wounds, and sometimes comes on without obvious cause. It is supposed to depend on a slow inflammation. It is irremediable. It sometimes follows operations for cataract in which the needle has been too freely used ; apparently from the breaking up and absorption of its contain- ing tissue. But although there is this great change of structure, vision may still be wonderfully perfect. IV. Dropsy of the vitreous humour, or IIydropiithalmia, pro- bably depends on slow inflammation of the inner tissues of the eve. It causes enlargement of the globe, with loss of .sight. In some cases there is constant e.xcruciating pain, only to be relieved by puncturing the sclerotic with a needle. In others, there is no pain ; the disease