89 TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. bleeding, purging, and the general antiphlogistic treatment ; whilst leeches and fomentations may be applied locally. But care must always be taken to reduce the strength as little as possible, whenever a large part is so injured that its death is probable. But an opposite treatment must be pursued if the pulse is quick and feeble, and if there are the other signs of deficient vital power that have been before mentioned. The principal remedies for this state are wine and opium,—whose united effect should be to render the pulse slower and fiimer, and to induce a warm, gentle perspiration, and sleep ;—whilst it will be a sign that they are injudiciously adminis- tered, if they induce or aggravate delirium and restlessness. Sir B. Brodie believes that alcohol is by far the best stimulant, and that it is better to trust to it in urgent cases than to load the stomach with bark. Mr. Vincent agrees with him. Beef-tea, and other fluid nu- triment may be given with it. Opium is of prodigious utility from its power of allaying irritability ; so that it renders the constitution in- sensible as it were to the local mischief; or, in Hunter’s language, “ It does good by not letting the disease do harm to the constitution.” It may either be given in small doses frequently repeated, or, if there be at any time very great restlessness, especially towards night, it will be better to give a full dose at once ; such as forty or fiftj' minims of the tincture, or two grains of the solid opium. The remedy next in importance is bark, of which the most efficacious preparations are the quinine, liquor cinchonm flavie, and decoction of the cinchona lanci- folia. It may be given in moderate doses every four or six hours, combined with the acids, or with a small quantity of ammonia ; but Sir B. Brodie and Mr. \’incent believe that ammonia, if too long perse- vered in, depresses the vital energies.— Vide. F. 1, 2, 3, 4, <kc. Locul Measures.—If a part be gangrenous, but not quite dead, its temperature must be maintained by wann poultices and fomenta- tions. If sphacelus has actually occurred, and the powers of the system are languid, and there is little disposition to form the line of demarcation, or throw oft the dead parts, stimulating applications are necessary, especially the nitric acid lotion, F. 119, on lint under the poultice ;— the ung. resinae, thinned with turpentine ;—the balsam of Peru ;— tincture of myrrh, or of benzoin ;—solution of the chlorides properly diluted (F. 127);—or poultices of yeast (F. 155), or of stale beer grounds. Any loose portions of slough may be cut away by scissors, taking care not to tear them away violently. Licisions are of great sendee, in spreading inflammatory mortifica- tion, attended with extensive effusion of serous or j)urulcnt fluids ; which not only contaminate the blood, and depress the nervous S3'stem by their absorption, but also propagate the disease by diffusing them- selves along the cellular tissue, into parts that are still sound. QuesUo7i of Amputation.—The rule formerl}' given on this subject was, that we ought to wait till the gangrene is arrested, and a lino of demarcation is formed, otherwise the stump may become gangrenous.