CONTUSION AND ECCUTMOSIS. 119 may be expedient to bleed. The bruised part should, if possible, be placed in a raised position ;—and cold or iced water, or a bladder con- taining a frigorific mMure, F. 114, should be applied at once ;—and a sufficient number of leeches, as soon as there are an}' signs of inflam- matory pain and swelling, but not before. These measures, together with purgatives and low diet, will suffice for the first two indications; —whilst the third will be fulfilled by friction with stimulating lini- ments ; by cold affusion; and passive motion after inflammation has subsided. The roots of briony, and Solomon’s seal, bruised, and ap- plied as a poultice, and the tincture of arnica, appear to have some efficacy in hastening the disappearance of bruises. Sometimes, however, the effusion of blood increases very fast, and the tumour becomes tense and shining, so as to threaten rupture of the skin. It will be well in this case to imitate the practice of prize- fighters, and make a very small aperture with the point of a lancet, and let as much blood be sucked out as can be without difficulty; although this should not be done unless absolutely necessary, because the pressure of the blood already effused tends to prevent the escape of more. If, however, this cannot be done, because the blood has coagu- lated,—and if the skin is so tense that it will inevitably either burst or slough,—and if the pain and tension are not adequately relieved by the free employment of antiphlogistic measures, so that the clot, in- stead of being absorbed, will be removed by suppuration, an incision of sufficient length should be made into the swelling, and a poultice be applied. Then the clot will most likely be gradually extruded by the contraction of the cavity, and a simple granulating wound will be left. But it is a very bad practice to squeeze or scoop out the coagulum, as the bleeding might be brought on afresh, and severe inflammation be excited.* If an artery of considerable size is lacerated, which will be known by the situation of the contusion, and the great and rapid swell- ing, the case must be treated as a diffused aneurism. If the fingers or toes have been severely bruised, so that it may seem impossible to save them, still they should not be too hastily am- putated, as they often recover under unfavourable circumstances. If any bruise be attended with severe collapse, the measures de- scribed in Part I., Chapter I., must be adopted. In no case should cold be applied if it make the patient shiver uncomfortably ; nor should it ever be applied extensively to the trunk; extensive super- ficial extravasation (to counteract which it was recommended above) rarely occurs there ;—and if there be extravasation into the cavities, it must be combated by bleeding. * Hunter on the Blood, part ii. chap. ii. sect. i.