472 STRANGULATED HERNIA. and on very low diet for six weeks or two months, and by the frequent uses of glysters and laxatives, and at the same time by keeping up a constant equable pressure on the tumour by means of a bag truss made to lace over it. This plan is verj' uncertain as to its results, and will be effectually defeated if there are any adhesions ; and, besides, there are not many patients who will submit to it. It will be more likely to succeed if the hernia is omental, than if it contains intestine. But several instances are known, in which, after the contents of old hemi® had been replaced, they produced so much irritation in the abdomen, that the patients were glad to compound for their life by keeping the hernia. Any surgical operation with the view of opening the sac, dividing adhesions, and returning the parts into the abdomen, is scarcely justifiable, as it would be exposing life to too great a hazard for the removal of a mere inconvenience.* SECTION IV.—OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. Definition. — Hernia is said to be strangulated, when it is constricted in such a way, that the contents of the protruded bowel cannot be propelled onwards, and the return of its venous blood is impeded. The causes of strangulation may be, 1. A sudden protrusion of bowel or omentum through a narrow aperture, in consequence of violent exertion (a thing not unlikely to happen if a truss has been worn for some time, and then is carelessly left off). 2. Distension of the pro- truded intestines by flatus or fmces, or tumefaction and congestion of the omentum or mesentery.+ 3. Swelling of tlie neck of the sac, or spasm of the muscular fibres around it. The seat of stricture is generally at the thickened portion of peri- tonaeum which forms the neck of the sac: but sometimes it is caused by tendinous bands external to it. In some rare cases the bowel has been constricted by membranous bands, or by fissures in the omentum in the sac itself. The symptoms of strangulated hernia are, first, those of obstruction of the bowels; secondly, those of inflammation. The patient first com- plains of flatulence, colicky pains, a sense of tightness across the bell}', desire to go to stool, and inability to evacuate. (It is true that stools may be passed if there be any ficcal matter in the bowel below the hernia, or if the hernia be entirely omental, but with very transient relief.) To these symptoms succeed vomiting of the contents of the stomach, then of mucus and bile, and lastly, of matters which have acquired a stercoraceous appearance by being delayed in the small in- testines. Meanwhile the tuinour is uneasy, tense, and incompressible. » A case in which Velpeau practised sul)cutauenus incisions for tlio relief of an irreducii)le hernia, is related in Hull. Gen. de Therap. 15 and 30 Aug. 18-10. t Mr. T. Wilkinson King, Med. Gaz. 5 May, 1813, shows that the duration of hernia before strangulation in above half the number of cases, is from 15 to 25 years; and attributes the production of strangulation in old cases to tumefac- tion of the bowel from defective circulation.