POISON OP INSECTS. 144 Acrid Vegetables.—The inflammation excited by these sub- stances requires merely soothing fomentations and emollient dress- ings. The smart from the sting of nettles may, it is said, be allayed by a weak infusion of tobacco, if severe enough to require any re- medy at all. . If an irritating fluid have been injected into the cellular tissue, free incisions must be made, both to allow its escape, and to afford exit to pus. By this means sloughing of the skin may often be avoided, although very likely to occur when the subjacent tissue is extensively disorganized. CHAPTER VIII. OF THE EFFECTS OF THE POISON OF HEALTHY ANIMALS AND OF THE TREATMENT OF POISONED WOUNDS GENERALLY. SECTION I.—OF THE EFFECTS OF POISONOUS INSECTS AND ^ SERPENTS. Insects.—The bites or stings of an}- insects that are met with in England are not of sufficient importance to need surgical assistance, unless inflicted in extraordinary numbers, or in peculiar situations. Mr. Lawrence * mentions the case of a French gentleman who was so severely stung by bees about the upper part of the chest, that he died in fifteen minutes, with all the symptoms of mortal collapse usually produced by the bite of venomous serpents. Children, if much stung by bees or wasps, may suffer severely from headache and fever. But the most common instance of danger from these insects is the alaming suffocation produced when their sting is in- flicted in the pharynx or back part of the mouth;—which sometimes happens when they are concealed in fruit, and are incautiously taken into the mouth. Treatme7tt.—If a person have been stung sufficiently to cause faint- ness or constitutional depression, cordials and opiates must be admi- nistered without delay. Respecting the local treatment, the first thing to be done is to examine the parts with a lens, and extract the stings with a fine forceps, if they have been left in the wound, as they very frequently are. Then the best remedies are those which are also most useful in burns, viz., turpentine, vinegar, hiirtshorn, spirit of wine, eau de cologne, or other stimulants. Cold applications give great relief, if used continuously. Finely-scraped chalk, flour, starch, and oil, are favourite remedies with some people. Mr. James recommends a combination of ung. hydr. fort, and liq. ammoniae. A weak infusion of tobacco or belladonna might be worth trying. The * Lecture Med. Gaz. vol. v. p. 5S2.