20 CHRONIC TETANUS. by beef-tea, wine, &c. Mr. Travers believes thiit more patients have been lost from want of nutriment than from want of medicine. But it is often by no means easy to administer food or medicine, in conse- quence of the closure of the jaws, and difficulty of deglutition. The fonner difficulty may sometimes be overcome by passing an elastic catheter through the nose, or behind the last molar teeth. But if the attempt at swallowing is attended with much spasm in the larynx, it must be abandoned, and our remedies be introduced solely through the skin, or by enema. It is both unnecessary and barbarous to force the jaws asunder, or to extract any of the teeth. G. It is also very important to protect the patient from all sources of irritation and disturbance, since in the excitable condition of the nervous system which characterizes this disease, the smallest impres- sion upon any of the organs of sense, such as a slight touch, or breath of air, is sure to aggravate the spasms. He should be kept quiet and in the dark ; and the administration of remedies should be managed so as to cause as little annoyance as possible. Bleeding (if judged necessary) and the evacuation of the bowels, should be effected tho- roughly once for all; and the patient be cautioned against speaking, moving, or swallowing oftener than he can help. We may sum up by observing, that bleeding in moderation if indicated by inflammatory symptoms; purgatives; and chloroform, and especially the latter two remedies, are those to which the surgeon can look with most confidence in this very intractable disease.(') SECTION III.—OF THE CHRONIC, INFANTILE, AND HYSTERICAL TETANUS. Chronic Tetanus is very seldom fatal, although in some rare instances the patient has died completely exhausted by its long con- tinuance ; for it sometimes lasts several weeks. The principal reme- dies are aperients, tonics, chloroform, and the shower-bath. The bowels should be kept freely open, but the indiscriminate exhibition of drastics should be avoided. Electricity, in the form of sparks, or weak shocks down the spine, would probably be of service.(“) Trismus Infantum is a form of tetanus which is almost unknown in England. It was formerly, however, exceedingly prevalent in Ire- land, and appears to be met with there occasionally even at present. It carries off a vast number of children in the West India Islands ; and we learn from Dr. Holland, that in the desolate rocky Vestmann islands, on the south coast of Iceland, one hundred and eighty-six infants perished of it in twentj'-five years, although the population does not exceed one hundred and fifty souls. The causes appear to be, want of ventilation, and filth, or the innutritions and unwholesome diet of the parents, such as the fish and sea-bird eggs that form the only sustenance of the Vestmann islanders; and the use of irritating applications to the wound left by the falling off of the naval string.