FRACTURES OP THE HUMERUS. 241 3. Fracture of the surgical neck presents nearly the symptoms of the preceding variety;—the head of the bone felt in the glenoid cavity; the elbow capable of being moved bj^ the surgeon in all directions, whilst the head of the bone remains motionless ; the projection of the upper end of shaft under the pectoralis muscle ; the deformity removed by extension, but returning when the extension is dis- continued. There is one variety of this acci- dent, in which the lower fragment is driven up and impacted in the cancellous tissue of the head of the bone. This complication adds mate- rially to the difficulty of diagnosis, inasmuch as there is some deform- ity, but yet none of the usual signs of luxation, or of fracture of the neck of the bone. Crepitus may, however, be produced, if the sur- geon very firmly grasp the head of the bone, whilst an assistant rotates the elbow. 4. Fracture of the greater tuberosity is usually caused bj' blows or falls on the shoulder. Symptoms. Great breadth of the injured joint; slight projection of the acromion and flattening of the deltoid, though the finger cannot be sunk into the glenoid cavity as in a case of dislocation; the head of the bone drawn inwards by the axillary muscles, whilst the separated tuberosity is drawn outwards by the supra and infra spinatus and teres minor; a deep groove can be felt, between the fractured tuberosity and the head of the bone ; the latter of which can be felt to move in its socket when the elbow is rotated, and the whole limb can be moved in any direction by the surgeon. All of the preceding fractures usually unite firmly by bone, even including the fracture of the anatomical neck ; for though frac- ture at this part would seem likely to deprive the head of the bone of all vascular connection and means of support, yet probably some ligamentous bands, which are sufficient for the purpose, remain un- • torn ;—in cases of impaction there is no difficulty. Yet the patient should be informed that some deformity is likely to remain, and some loss of motion, though time and use will go far to restore the latter. .5. In fracture of the cervix humeri, with dislocation, the head of the bone can be felt in the axilla, if the arm be raised; and it can be felt not to move when the elbow is rotated. Theann is shortened, and the broken extremity of the shaft can be perceived to move under the acromion. In treating this peculiar form of injury, it is generally found impossible to restore the head of the bone to its place ; but the broken summit of the shaft must be brought into the glenoid cavity, R