I'ROSTRATION, OR COLLAPSE. o First, if it is healthy and moderate, and especiallj^ if the collapse arise merely from coticussion (or violent shaking) of an organ, without actual injury to its structure, it will lead to complete recoverJ^ Thus it very often happens that a slight blow on the testicle or stomach causes an extreme degree of sickness and faintness, which, however, pass off gradually, and leave no ill consequences. Secondly. If reaction be excessive, the state of collapse will be gradually succeeded by fever, symptomatic of the inflammation to which the local injuiw has given origin. Thirdly. If reaction be imperfectly developed, it will be converted into the state of prostration with excitement, of which we shall speak in the next chapter. Fourthly. If reaction be altogether wanting, the collapse will termi- nate in death. And death may occur immediately on the receipt of the injury, if it be of extreme severity ; or otherwise the patient may die more slowly, the pulse at the wrist becoming fainter, and finally ceasing; and the respiration more and more slow and oppressed, till life is gradually extinguished.* Causes.—These symptoms may be caused by every variety of in- jury to which the body is liable. Great and sudden extremes of grief, or joy, or fear, or cold ;—large doses of any active poison, such as arsenic, or sulphuric acid, or tobacco ;—the sudden impression of miasmata, or of morbid poisons, as the plague ;—great loss of blood, and mechanical injuries. It is most important that the surgeon should know what injuries are most likely to be followed by fatal collapse, in order that he may have proper materials for giving his prognosis. They are; — * Various modes op dying. — The order, and the manner, in which the various phenomena of life are extinguished vary extremely in different cases, so that we may enumerate several modes of dying. The first is death by syncope, or by atuemia;—that is, from profuse loss of blood, as after severe wounds, bursting of aneurisms, &c.. The sjTuptoms ob- servable are cold skin, weak fluttering pulse, gasping respiration, and convul- sions. In this mode, death occurs because there is not a sufficiency of blood for the heart to propel, and so the respiratory and nervous functions cease in con- sequence. After death the heart is found contracted. The second is death by asthenia.—This is caused by circumstances producing a depressing effect on the system, either sudden and violent, or prolonged. The heart ceases to act, not from want of blood, as in tlie preceding mode, but from want of power to propel its contents; and therefore after death it is found full and distended, the left cavities with red blood. Sudden death from shocks to the nervous system; and gi-adual death from nervous exhaustion, from severe pain, and from tetanus and hydrophobia, are instances of death by asthenia. When this fonn of death occurs gradually (as in inflammation of the bowels), the pulse is very frequent and feeble, but the intellect perfect, and senses acute to the last. The third is death byapncea, or from interruption to respiration.—(Dr. Wat- son has judiciously substituted the term apiuea, for asphyxia, which is generally used to denote this kind of death, although incorrectly, since asphyxia literally signifies want of pidse.) Familiar instances of this mode arc afforded by the various forms of sufl'oeation, drowning, violent Intiamm.ation of the lungs; in- jury to the spinal cord in the cervical region, &c. The immediate effects of the privation of air, are, a stagnation of blood in the lungs, the circulation of venous