IMPOTENCE. 550 these ;iro difficult cases to manage; because the disease is in the mind and not in the body. It is most difficult to persuade the patient that his disease is imaginary; and he is far too ready to think that the honest surgeon does not understand his case. 6. Lastly, im- potence may be produced by premature and excessive venery, or by the practice of self-pollution. Such cases frequently come under the observation of the London surgeon, who has no difficulty in dis- tinguishing them from the last varietj’. The sexual organs have been rendered in these cases so weak and irritable, that the least e.xcitoraent from a lascivious idea or from the mere friction of the clothes, brings on an imperfect erection followed immediately by the discharge of a thin fluid. The erection is so imperfect, and followed so soon by the discharge, that the patient is quite incompetent for sexual connexion ; and the frequent and abundant losses of seminal fluid (whence the term spermcitorr/iaa is given to this malad}'), together with the pa- tient's consciousness of his own imperfection, bring on a most miser- able state of bodily weakness and mental despondency. General tonics,and cold shower bathing will do something to relieve this state; but the most essential thing is, the observance of perfect chastity of idea, so that all excitement may be avoided. The prostatic portion of the urethra in these cases, is almost always preternaturally irritable and sensitive; and this condition of the parts at the oriflee of the seminal ducts tends greatly to keep up the e.xcessive secretion, and to promote the action by whicli it is expelled. It is a very important indication, therefore, to attack this irritable surface, destroy its sensi- tiveness, and so interrupt the chain of morbid phenomena. This may be effected bj' the use of nitrate of silver according to the plan pro- posed by M. Lallemand. The purte eaustkpte is passed down the urethra, and as soon as it arrives at the painful part, the caustic is protruded for an inch, and passed backwards and forwards rapidly once or twice, then the instrument is withdrawn. This is followed by more or less pain, and thin bloody discharge; sometimes by severe inflammation; but the spermatorrhtea is almost invariably benefited at once. Injections of thin mucilage, containing one grain of opium and three of acetate of lead to the ounce, have been recommended by Mr. Douglas, of Glasgow, as less painful, and equally efficacious; the author 'can confirm this statement.* Enemata of cold water, the introduc- tion of the common bougie three times a week; cold or tepid salt- water hip-baths; and small doses of cubebs with henbane, are useful adjuncts to the treatment. The author has seen several cases in which a preternatural imtability of the ejaculatory apparatus, with involuntary nocturnal emissions, even of a bloody fluid, together with very great pain in the back, languor, and despondency of mind, have been caused by the presence of irritating urine, containing o.xalate of lime, and cured by the means described in the section on Urinary Deposits. Vide F. "21,22, &c. • Vide 13. I’liillips, Med. Gaz., 23rd Dec., 18-12; Curling, op. cit. Douglas, Med. Gaz., 22th Sept. 18-43.