ADHESION OR THE 48 the formation of minute Molecules or G?'anules, composed in all pro- bability, according to Ascherson’s theory, of fattj^ matter coated with fibrine. These, by their own inherent vitality, associate themselves into groups, and so form larger bodies, called fiuclei, or cytollusts. These increase, imbibe fluid, and soon are seen to have a delicate vesicle surrounding them, with the nucleus imbedded or contained in it; and thus, nuclei are converted into cells. Cells having been formed in the fibrinous blastema, proceed to de- velop themselves by enlargement and elongation; becoming succes- sivelj’ caudate, or spindle-shaped, or lanceolate, till they are lengthened and attenuated to a cluster of fibres. On comparing these two modes, it will be evident that so far as the production of new fibro-cellular tissue, the ordinary reparative material, is concerned, the former is the more direct means of attaining the de- sired end, and, consequently, the more perfect. On the other hand the course of development through nucleated cells is very liable to be perverted, and the cells to be converted into pus or some other morbid cell, if the degree of inflammation is in the least degree elevated above a certain point. The pure fibrinous kind of lymph, which developes itself by the first mode, is produced by the healthiest constitutions, in which wounds and injuries are repaired easily and benignly b}' adhesion, without violent local inflammation, or constitutional disturbance. The corpuscular variety or that which developes itself through the medium of cells, is formed more easily in those constitutions which have a cachectic tendency; in which wounds are apt to fester, and not to heal readily. It is the material of which granulations are composed. These two varieties of lymph may be combined in anj"^ proportion. Formation of nevs vessels.—Ljunph effused, and in process of deve- lopment, very soon becomes vascular. Sir E. Home relates a case in which some lymph, effused on the surface of the peritonseiun became vascular within twentj'-nine hours; but there is no doubt that the process may be effected much more quickly than this. The manner in which new blood-vessels are fonned, is, according to Mr. Paget, by the successive outgrowths of loops of capillaries. “ Suppose,” says Mr. Paget, “a line or arch of capillary vessel passing below the edge or surface of a part to which new material has been superadded. The vessel will first present a slight dilatation in one, and coincidently, or shortly after, in another point, as if its wall yielded a little near the edge or surface. The slight pouches thus formed, gradually extend, as blind canals or diverticula from the original vessel, still directing tlieir course towards the edge or surface of the new material, and crowded with blood-corpuscles which are pushed into them from the main stream. Still extending, they converge, they meet; the partition wall that is at first fonned by the meeting of their closed ends, clears away, and a perfect arched tube is formed, through which the blood diverging from the main or former stream, and then rejoining it, may be continually propelled.” A multiplication of new loops in this