DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. 291 It may be added, that in elderly weakly persons these dislocations may be conveniently reduced bj' means of the surgeon’s foot pressing on the perineum, whilst extension and rotation of the limb are effected by assistants.* Unusual Dislocations.—Besides the above four varieties, a dis- location directly downwards on the tuberosity of the ischium ; one directly backwards on the spine of the ischium ; and one directly up- wards on the space between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium, have been known to occur, although veiy rarely. In a case of dislocation directly downwards, recorded by Mr. Keate, the limb was lengthened three inches and a half, and was fixed and everted ; the trochanter was sunk ; and the head of the bone, close to and on a level with the tuberositj^ of the ischium, where it was capable of being moved under the finger. In a case of dislocation on the spine of the ischium, which happened in the practice of Mr. Earle, at St. Bartho- lomew’s, the limb was lengthened about half an inch ; it was neither everted nor inverted, but if anything the latter; there seemed to be a great vacuity in front of the hip ; the edges of the sartorius and ten- sor vaginm femoris could be plainly felt, and a cavity behind them; and the trochanter was further back, and not so prominent as usual. But the dislocation directly upwards is the most common of these unusual forms. In a case that was examined by Mr. Travers, jun. some time after the accident, the limb was completely everted and slightly moveable ; and the neck of the bone laj' between the two anterior spinous processes of the ilium ; so that when the patient was erect, the limb seemed to be slung or suspended from this point. The diagnosis must in such cases be guided by an attentive examination of the deformity that is present, and by the absence of any symptoms of fracture. The reduction must be effected bj' extension, made in such a direction as seems most likely to bring the head of the bone into its sockct.+ IX. Di.slocations op the Knee.—Dislocation of the tibia from the femur is not veiy common; and, when it does occur, is rarely com- plete. In most cases the tibia is thrown backwards towards the ham. The defoiTuity and impediment to motion will enable the practitioner to distinguish the accident; and if there be no complication requiring amputation, the displacement must be rectified ly simple exten- sion, and the knee be kept at rest till inflammatory symptoms have subsided. 'I’here often remains a permanent inability to keep the joint fiiTU in the straight position. tjome, was good ciiougli to communicate to tlie author tlic particulars of a case of di.slocatiou on tlie dorsum ilii liai)pouing to a boy of ten. =*= Soutli’s Chelius, vol. i, p. 801. t Vide a paper on Haro Dislocations of tho Hi))-.Ioint, in tlie Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. by Mr. Travers, jun. Guy’s Hosp. Hop. vol. i., Keate, Med. Gaz. vol. X.; a case of dislocation directly upwards, I.ancet, May IStli, 1841 ; Mr. liarle's case, Dancet, vol. xi. )>. 159 ; case of dislocation downwards and backwards (with dissection and di'awing) by Mr. 'Wormald, Med. Gaz. 28tli Jan. 1837.