CHRONIC ABSCESS. 61 (2.) To procure absorption of the matter, if possible. This may sometimes be effected by stimulants and counter-irritants applied to the tumour or its vicinity; as the Emp. Ammoniaci cum Hydrarg.; or F. 160. (3.) But if the tumour continues to enlarge, it cannot be opened too soon;—especially if there is any incipient redness of the skin. And a different proceeding is requisite in different cases. If the abscess is superficial and small it may be opened with a lancet or bistoury; the raspbcrry-cream-looking matter, with flakes of lymph floating in it, should bo gently evacuated, and some strips of adhesive plaster, or a compress and bandage wetted with zinc lotion, should be passed round the part, so as to keep the sides of the sac in apposition with a moderate degree of pressure. Thus, a free exit being provided for the pus, the opposing surfaces of the cavity will often granulate and adhere ; then the external aperture heals, and the case is cured. If from deficiency of action this adhesion will not take place, weak stimu- lating injections may be used, such as F. 117, diluted; or another aperture may be made, and a seton be passed through the sac;—or if it be long and fistulous, it may be slit up, and made to heal from the bottom. In some cases, when a considerable portion of skin has become thin and red—showing that it will certainly ulcerate and form a large aper- ture, it will be advisable to apply the caustic potass, so as to destroy it, and avoid the more painful and tedious process of ulceration. If an abscess is seated in the neck of a female, it is of the greatest consequence to make an early opening, so that no scars may be left. The instrument recommended by Sir A. Cooper for this purpose is a very fine lancet, only one-eighth of an inch broad. A grooved needle will answer the same purpose. The puncture should be large enough to extract all flakes, but no larger; and it should be made transversely, so that its minute cicatrix may be hidden by the folds of the neck. Adhesive plaster, or collodion, should then be applied with moderate pressure;—and weak injections, especially F. 90, may be used, if the sac does not become obliterated in the course of a few days. Lanje Chronic Abscesses.—If the abscess is so large that the expo- sure of its cavity would lead to the evil consequences that have been enumerated; or, if it is connected with disease of the spine or other bone (as in the case of psoas abscess), the following jdan should be resorted to, with a view of inducing a contraction of the sac, and of diminishing the danger from a pennanent opening, should one be esta- blished subsequently. A small jmneture should be made at the most depending part of the tumour. Mr. Vincent recommends a trocar. As much matter as flows spontaneously should be permitted to escape, the parietes. of the abscess should be brought together by careful bandaging, and then the puncture should be carefully closed by collo- dion or plaster, and the patient be kept at rest till it is" healed. During the flow of the matter, the greatest care ought to be taken to prevent the admission of air into the sac. At the expiration of ten days or a