163 HYDROPHOBIA. along the spine, and ten grains of the acetate of morphia were sprinkled on the denuded cutis. “ Scarcely had one minute elapsed,” says Dr. Bume, “ when we observed the stare of the eyes and the dreadful alarm and an.xiety of the countenance to diminish, then the violence of the spasm to abate, and the catchings in the respiration and the retching to subside ; and to our astonishment this general amelior- ation progressed, till in four minutes the countenance had become placid, and the respiration free; the retching had ceased, and the spasms vanished.” This improvement, however, did not last very long;—the symptoms returned,—a repetition of the remedy was powerless,—and the patient died. And this is the general history of the effects of opium. The whole tribe of sedatives;—hclladonna, digitalis, tobacco, c^ c., have been repeatedly tried, but with similar results. The hot air hath and cold affusion,—acids, and alkalis, especially ammonia ;—every diuretic, purgative, and sudorific that can be thought of, has suc- ceeded no better. In one instance the liquor phtmbi diacctutis is said to have effected a cure. In a case which occurred in the King’s College Hospital, the suffo- cative spasms were entirely relieved by letting the patient eat large quantities of ice, and applying it externally to the spine and throat ;* and the last thing that has been tried is the resin of Indian hemp; but a brief respite from suffering is the utmost good they produce. Mr. Hewitt, surgeon in the Bombay Medical Establishment, has related a single case in which the patient was saved by violent saliva- tion. Several native soldiers and other persons were bitten one night by a wild jackal, which when killed was found to be very feeble and apparently starved, and its liver rotten and full of abscesses. A month afterwards two of the persons that had been bitten were found dead in the fields, and, from the description which was given of their symptoms, Mr. Hewitt judged that they had perished of hydrophobia. Shortly afterwards, three others were seized with the disease, and came under his treatment. He induced salivation in one of them (a woman) by the most profuse administration of mercury, and she re- covered ; but with the other two, who were men, the same remedy was of no avail. Strangely enough, the natives of these parts were entirel}' ignorant that such a disease as hydrophobia existed ;—a suf- ficient refutation of the perverse error of those who maintain that it is entirely an imaginary affection brought on by fright.+ In the present state of our knowledge, the principal object in the treatment of this disease is to allay the patient’s sufl'crings. This should be done by keeping the patient perfectly quiet and in tlie dark; and by the administration of opium, chloroform, Indian hemp, and * The case is related by Dr. Guy in liis edition of Hooper's Pliysicimi’s Vndo Mocum, p. 277. t Account of the effects of tho bite of a wild jackal in a rabid stjitc, as the same occurred at Kattywar, in the East Indies, in 1822, Med. Chir. Tran.s. vul. xiii. 182S.