177 GONORRHCEA. unfounded and mischievous. The patient should be provided with one of the glass syringes with a long, bulbous e.xtremity, recommend- ed by Mr. Acton ; * and having filled it, should introduce it for about an inch with his right hand. Then, having encircled the glans penis with his left forefinger and thumb, so as to compress the urethra against the syringe, and prevent any of the fluid from escaping, he should push down the piston with his right forefinger, letting the fluid pass freel}' into the urethra ; the syringe should now be withdrawn, but the orifice should still be compressed, and the fluid be retained for two or three minutes; after which, on removing the finger ;ind thumb, it will be thrown out by the elasticity of the urethra. It is always worth the surgeon’s while to see that the injection is properly used. Of the second stage.—Supposing it to be a first attack in a young irritable subject, and that it has proceeded unchecked to the acute stage, the patient should be confined to the house for a few days, if his avocations permit it. Walking, and above all, horse exercise, should be prohibited. The penis and scrotum should be supported by a suspensory bandage, and be kept constantly wet with tepid water. The glans penis, if very irritable, should be protected by a piece of lint spread with spermaceti ointment. The diet should be moderate, to the entire exclusion of fermented liquors, and the patient should drink soda water, barley water, linseed tea, gum water, and other mucilaginous fluids. The scalding will be relieved by combinations of alkalis and sedatives (F. 174) ; and by a hip bath of the temperature of 80° ; but the bath should not be hot., nor even warm, otherwise it will excite the circulation and bring on erections. The bowels should be opened v;ith a dose of calomel at night, and some castor oil in the morning ; and it is advisable to give half a grain or a grain of calomel, with gr. one-eighth of tartar emetic, and gr. x. of Dover’s powder ; or F. 63, &c., every night whilst there is much pain and chordee. The mercury is not necessary as a specific, but it is highly useful to check the inflammatory symptoms. As soon as the patient is free from fever, he should take copaiba or cubebs in moderate doses. The best preparation is the capsule, which should be taken just before a meal, and then it causes no eructations ; but the pills with magnesia, F. 177, or the emulsion, F. 175, agree very well with some stomachs. Young irritable people, with light complexions, can seldom take these medicines without suflering from sickness or diarrhoea, or sometimes even from fever and a rash ; and every combination of aromatic and opiate that can be devised will not enable the stomach to tolerate them. If the patient is very plethoric, and suffers greatly from pain and fever, and has a hard pulse and white tongue ; and if there be great aching in the bladder or perinmum ; protracted agony after micturition; tenderness in the abdomen, pain in the back, or other signs of irritation • Described in tlie Med. Gaz., vol. xxix. p. 428. The plan of treatment re- commended by Dr. Graves (Clinical Medicine, p. 304) is highly judicious, and almost precisely similar to tliat of Ricord and Acton. N