39 ACUTE INFLAMMATION. tago; they abate heat and thirst, purify the blood, and increase the secretion of urine. V. Narcotics.—Opium is a most valuable remedy against the nervous element in inflammation, as well as in enabling the patient to bear up under its effects. But as it primai-ily decreases the secretions, and increases vascular excitement, it must not be given in acute inflammation till after bleeding; but then a large dose (such as gr. ii.) ma}' be given in combination with five of calomel, to allay pain and prevent reaction. But it is the sine qua non, and may be given with- out reserve in inflammations occurring in very debilitated habits, such as peritoneal inflammations from perforation of the intestine after fever; or acute inflammation occurring after profuse limmorrhage. The ivarm hath acts in every way analogously to opium, and requires the same precautions ; viz. as it stimulates before it soothes, it must be preceded by evacuations, if the habit be plethoric. The proper temperature is 97“ Fahrenheit, and it should be continued long enough to induce a complete rela.xation. VI. Sedatives.—Ilyoscyamus, conium, and digitalis, are of emi- nent service, when combined with calomel and antimony (F. 62), to prevent reaction, and soothe pain in inflammatory cases attended with great nervous irritability. VII. Diet.—The diet in acute inflammation should, as a general rule, be of the least stimulating nature. But although water-gruel and tea might for many days suffice for the robust and plethoric, the starving system must not be indiscriminately applied to children, or the old or debilitated; on the contrary, their strength must be sup- ported by mild fluid nutriment, milk, arrowroot, veal and chicken broth, &c., and even by wine if necessary. VIII. Begimen.—There must be a total avoidance of everything that would irritate mind or body. Perfect rest in the recumbent pos- ture, and in a position as easy as it can be made,—cool air,—free ventilation,—the exclusion of light and sound,—with mental consola- tion, to allay doubts and fears, and inspire resignation and cheerful- ness, are most potent aids to medical treatment, which without them would often be utterly fruitless.* Local Treat.ment.—In the local treatment of inflammation, the first thing to be done is to remove all exciting causes if possible, and to place the part at perfect rest, and in an elevated posture, so as to favour the return of blood from it;—and then the indications are, to diminish the morbid heat and afflux of blood, and to allay irritation and pain. 1. The local means of abstradinr) Mood are leeches, cupping, and scarifications. In order to apply leeches, the part should first be washed, and if they will not stick, a little milk or blood should be smeared on it, or some small punctures should be made with the point * A most instructive commentary on the v.alue of antiplilogistic remedies of various kinds, is to be found in Dr. Latliam’s second series of Lectures on subjects connected with clinical medicine.