NEURALGIA. 6AO V. Neuralgia, or Tic-Douloureux.—This affection may be de- fined to be severe pain affecting the nerves, not necessarily jiroduced bj' organic lesion. It occurs in paro.vysms of very severe pain, mostly of a plunging, lancinating character, shooting in the course of the nerves. It most frequentl}^ attacks persons of middle age, female se.x, and comfortable circumstances. Causes.—The exciting causes may be of two orders. 1. There are some which act upon the nerve that is the seat of pain. Thus neuralgia mat' be produced by wounds and other injuries, as before related; by tumours; by spicula of bone pressing on the nerve (which - is a frequent cause of facial neuralgia); or by some disease in the brain or spinal cord at its origin. '2. It may be caused sympathetically by influences that act upon distant parts, or on the system at large ; as, for instance, by loss of blood and debility ; by wet and cold ; by irritation of the skin from eruptions or wounds; by carious teeth; by disorders of the alimentary canal; sometimes by diseases of the urinary or other internal organs; lastlj', by malaria. When arising from malaria, it is generally' inter- mitlent, like other diseases arising from the same source, and occurs at regular intervals. But all intermittent neuralgia is not necessarily caused bj' malaria ; because this, as well as other nervous affections, may occur only at stated periods, although caused by a local source of irritation that is permanent. The nature of the complaint is apparentlyderangement. The suddenness of its accession and departure, and the absence of organic change in nerves that have been affected for years, prove that it is not essentially inflammatory; although inflammation of a nerve, when existing, may doubtless be an e.xciting cause. The most common forms of neuralgia are—the Supraorbital Xeu- ralyia. Brow Ayue or Hemierania,w\\\e\\ is usually caused by malaria; neuralgia of the superior and inferior maxillary nerves, which is often caused by diseased teeth, or disease of the bony canals through which those nerves pass ; and neuralgia of the ear, mamma, and testicle, which will be treated of elsewhere ; it may also attack the extremi- ties, or any internal organ. Treatment.—The indications are three. First, to remove all sources of irritation which may affect the painful nerve, either at its origin or in any part of its course; remembering always that the painful spot is very seldom the real seat of the disease ; secondly, to amend any dis- order of the constitution that can be detected ; thirdly, to alleviate pain. In the first place, therefore, the whole course of the affected nerve should be thoroughly examined ; and if there is a cicatri.x, or tumour, or wound, or a carious tooth, or an abscess, or ulcer, or hernia, or aneurism, to which the pain can be attributed, measures should be taken for their removal. In cases of neuralgia of the extremities, if there is any tenderness, or other reason for suspecting inflammation of the nerve or its sheath, leeches and blisters, followed by liniments