GONORRHfflA. 175 turethritis with violent scalding and chordee, and followed by swelled t testicle ;—and a considerable degree of irritation may be produced by tthe vaginal secretions, just previous to menstruation.* (6.) Similar (consequences sometimes ensue if the female be affected with leucor- rrhoea, or with any other discharge of any sort whatever. Diagnosis.—The question next follows, whether there is any means of distinguishing the simple gonorrhoea, that is, a discharge ' which does not arise from sexual conne.xion, or which a man con- 1 tracts from some accidental malady in a clean chaste woman, from the I venereal gonorrhoea, or clap, caught from an infected prostitute. The grand diagnostic sign laid down by writers,f is the comparative I mildness of the former, and the absence of acute inflammation. And I this is almost invariably true. Moreover, if, as Mr. Bacot observes, ‘ “ a discharge come on only a few hours after connexion; and if it have I continued several days without inflammatory symptoms; if the patient has been liable to some discharge after any excess of venery or of ■ wine;—in all such cases the probability is, that the patient labours 1 under some other diseased condition of the urethra, and that although I the intercourse of the sexes may have been the exciting cause, still I there may be no imputation on the cleanliness of the female.” J But it is most important to observe, that although discharges may I arise from many causes besides connexion, and although some dis- I charges may arise from connexion with chaste women, yet that I every one of them is capable of exciting a similar discharge in a healthy person. The time at which the disease usually appears after contagion is the fourth or fifth day. The later it appears, the less severe it generally is ; but in some very simple cases, produced by simple irritation, the I discharge comes on immediately after connexion. Gonorrhcea in the Female.—This, unless the patient is very young and delicate, is a much more simple disease than it is in the I male ; since the parts affected are less complex in formation, and less i important in function. The sgmptoms are much the same. Heat and pain in making water: tenderness and soreness, especially in walking, uneasiness in i sitting, and viscid muco-purulent discharge. On examination, the ] parts are found swelled and red, and if the case is severe, there may I be excoriations or aphthous ulcerations. Sympathetic enlargement of I the inguinal glands, and abscesses in the mucous follicles, arc occasional (complications. Diagnosis,—Acuie injlammalion of the mucous membrane of the 1 labia, nymphaj, and vagina, is not unfrequent in young girls, as a (consequence of teething ; or of costiveness, worms, and other disor- (ders of the alimentary canal ; and it has precisely the same sjnnptoms as gonorrhoea. It of course often excites great uneasiness, and pain- fful suspicions in the minds of parents ; but the surgeon may very Judd, p. 24. t Titley, op. cit. p. 18G. t Bacot, op. cit. p. 101.