VARICOSE VEINS. 322 vein, and carried horizontally with its flat surface between it and the skin. Then the convex edge was turned towards the vein, in order to cut through it, as the knife was withdrawn. 2ndly. Mr. Watson, of New York, recommends, in some cases, eircision. of a portion of the affected vein. Then, 3rdly, there is a method which was introduced by Mr. Cartwright, and improved by Mr. Mayo, of destroying a narrow slip of skin across the vein by a paste of potassa fusa and quick-lime, in order to cause slight inflammation of the vein, with coagulation of the blood in it, and obliteration of its cavity. 4thly, Pressure by means of a firm pad and bandage has been used for the same purpose. 5thly. But the newest and safest treatment is that b}' means of the twisted suture. The surgeon pinches up the vein between his left fore-finger and thumb, and passes a needle behind it: it is a good plan also to pass another at right angles, which should be made to transfix the vein twice, and should go behind the first; a thread is then to be twisted around them tightly enough to stop the circula- tion ; and this may be done at as many places as the surgeon thinks requisite. The points of the needles should be cut off. They should be allowed to remain till they have begun to create slight ulceration ; and it is better, unless the irritation is too great, to pennit one or two of them to separate by ulceration quite through the vein ; because if they only remain long enough to cause coagulation of the blood be- tween the needles, the coagulum will soon be absorbed again, and the circulation be re-established, as has been conclusively shown by M. Bonnet. Both before and after any of these operations, care must be taken to avoid every cause of inflammation ; because any of them may be followed by abscess or diffused phlebitis, if precaution be ne- glected.* * Vide Aniott in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xv. Lee, ibid. Mayo, Pathol. ; Copland and olliers in Med. Gaz., .Inly and Augu.st 1838. Bonnot, quoted in Brit, and For. Med. Rev., Jan. 1840. Dodd, Med. G-az., 20lh Dec. 1839; and