476 STRANGULATED UERNIA. If the intestine is mortified, which will be known by the softened green or ashy spots, the mortified part should be slit open, the stric- ture be divided, and the patient left to recover with an artificial anus. Again, if a large portion of the intestine, which has been long irredu- cible in an elderly person, appear extremely dark and advanced to- wards sphacelus, so as to render it doubtful whether it would be capable of performing its functions when returned, the safest plan is to make an opening into it, and so afford an outlet for its contents; although the inconvenience of an artificial anus must of course be con- sidered. If the omentum is gangrenous, or if it is thickened and indurated, it would, if returned, excite dangerous irritation of the peritontEum. In this case some surgeons advise it to be left to granulate in the sac, or to cut it off close to the neck of the sac, and leave it there as a plug to prevent further protrusion. Macfarlane and others, on the contrary, recommend it to be cut cleanly off, and all the vessels to be tied with fine silk ligatures, and the end to be then passed quite into the abdomen, breaking up any adhesions about the neck of the sac, if necessary; thus avoiding the dragging pains and colic which are liable to occur if a portion of the omentum or intestine is fixed. But it may happen that there may be a portion of intestine concealed within the omentum, and completely enveloped in a kind of sac formed by it. This is especially liable to be the case in the umbilical hernia. Therefore, to use the words of Mr. Prescott Hewett, “ when the hernial sac appears to contain thickened omentum onlj% the omentum ought to be drawn out and carefully examined, to see that it does not form a sac containing a portion of intestine.”* If it is thickened and firmly united to the neck of the hernial sac through- out its whole circumference, an incision should be carefully made through it; bearing in mind that it is often extremely thick, and that the intestine may be firmly adherent to its inner surface. In fact, as Mr. Hewett sa}'s, the surgeon ought carefully to “ examine every por- tion of omentum which is in a hernial sac, so as to ascertain that no knuckle of intestine is contained within its folds, before it is retimned into the abdomen, left in the sac, or removed altogether.” Division of the. Stricture external to the Sac.—Petit, Aston Key, Luke, and other eminent surgeons have recommended that the stricture should be released without opening the sac itself. The argument in favour of this proceeding is, that the dangers .arising from rough handling and exposure of the intestine are gre.atly diminished, and the case brought nearer, as regards safety, on a level with one in which no operation h.as been performed. The circumstances under which this mode of operating seems most advisable, are when the hernia is of very great size, and has been long irreducible, so that the idea of returning its contents could not be entertained ; and when the hernia is sm.all. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvii.