STRICTURE OP THE RECTUM. 499 medicines, and the use of injections, than by the employment of the bougie.” XIV. PERiu.t.NENT Stricture. — In this affection there is a chronic thickening and contraction of the mucous coat of the rectum, so as to form a ring encroaching on its canal. It is generally situated at from two inches and a half to four inches from the anus. More rarely it is met with higher up, or even in various parts of the colon. It may follow the contraction of cicatrices of ulcers. The symptoms are great pain, straining and difficulty in voiding the fmces, which are passed in small, narrow, flattened fragments: and on examination the stricture may in ordinary cases be readily felt. Irritation of the bladder and uterus, and pains or cramps in the leg, with headache and dyspepsia, arc occasional additional symptoms. If this affection be unrelieved, it leads to ulceration of the rectum above the stricture, with a consequent aggravation of all the symptoms, and death from irritation. Treatment. — The reme- dies are aperients and in- jections so as to produce dailj'soft unirritatingstools, and the bougie. A soft bougie, capable of being passed with moderate faci- lity through the stricture, should be introduced once in three or four days, and be .allowed to remain fifteen or twenty minutes ; and its size should be gradually in- creased when a larger one admits of being passed. The best bougie is a short one, made of India rubber, which m.ay be received al- together within the sphincter; and it may be withdrawn by mccans of a ribbon at one end. Instruments of every sort introduced into the rectum should be handled with the utmost gentleness. Nothing is gained b}' forcing a large bougie through a stricture. The cure is to be effected by the repeated and gentle stimulus of pressure, so as to excite absorption, not by mere mech.anical dilatation. There are numerous fatal instances on record in which the bowel has been torn by bougies, and by that most d.angerous and loathsome instru- ment, the common ch'ster syringe, in the hands of careless or ignorant people. For the administration of enemata, the pipe should be onl}' an inch and a half in length, with a large bidbous extremity. Or if