GASTROTOMY. 466 done by some one little band, and that if this could have been found and severed, the patient might have had at least a chance of recovery. Intestinal obstruction may, however, arise from many other causes ; such as, 1st, ileus, or obstinate spasm; 2ndly, impaction of accumu- lated freces, or, perhaps, of a large gall stone ; 3rdly, solid growths within the intestine ; 4thly, tumours pressing upon it from without; .5thly, stricture of the intestine; Ctlily, invagination, or the slipping of one portion into, and constriction l)y another ; and, lastly, constric- tion by bands of lymph; or by rents in the mesentery through which the bowel has slipped ; besides internal hernia; obturator hernia, for example. Moreover, from whatever cause arising, the symptoms are usually much the same — viz., obstinate constipation ; a vomiting, first of a yellowish or greenish liquid, then of a feculent or stercora- ceous matter; and occasional fits of colickj'pain—arising from the efforts of the intestine to overcome the obstacle, during which the coils of the distended guts can be seen through the abdominal pa- rietes. To these essential symptoms, tenderness, and other signs of inflammation are added in greater or less degree. Now the practical question arises; suppose there to be a case of evident mechanical obstruction of the bowels; that injections h<ave been used as largely as they safely can ; and that purgatives have been given till they do but add to the distressing vomiting; that leeches and opium and hip baths have been resorted to for the relief of tenderness ; .and that some space has been given, if the symptoms are not very urgent, to see what nature unaided can do, and that the case remains unimproved—shall the patient be left to die ? or shall surgical means be resorted to, to give him a chance ? The author would say, let the patient settle his affairs, worldly and spiritual, and let an operation be resorted to. The most favourable circumstances which such a case can present are, if the patient is not too much exhausted by a long continuance of pain and vomiting; if he can point to any one spot as the seat of uneasiness and, probably, of stricture, and if an examination of the distended coils of intestine seems to confirm this suspicion; and if he has been known to suffer on former occasions from an attack of inflammation in the abdomen, thus making it probable that the obstruction is caused by bands of lymph, rather than b}^ either of the other causes; and if the present attack have come on suddenly. If the operation is determined on, the air of the apartment shonid be raised to about 70°; towels dipped in warm, water should be ready to protect the bowels if they protrude; chloroform should be admi- nistered and the bladder emptied. Then an incision should be made through the linea alba below the umbilicus; the peritonmum be care- fully opened, and the finger at once passed to the probable seat of obstruction. If a band is found, tlie finger must be passed under it. and a probe-pointed bistoury used to sever it; the wound should be closed with abundance of sutures, and a compress and bandage be