129 TREATMENT OP GUN-SUOT WOUNDS. But if there he great swelling of muscular parts confined by fascia*, or if matter form in the same, there can be no doubt of the propriety of a sufficiently long and deep incision to relieve tension and dis- charge matter. Dilatation may also be required in compound gun-shot fracture, to remove splinters of bone. The two peculiarly fatal forms of inflammation specified by Mr. Guthrie are to be combated by vigorous antiphlogistic measures and incisions. Foreign Bodies.— In every case the surgeon should ascertain whether foreign bodies are lodged in the wound; for even although it maj^ be satisfactorily demonstrated that the hafl has passed out,—or although there may be a mere laceration from grapeshot or shell, still pieces of the clothing or other matters may remain in the wound. If there is only one opening, such an examination is indispensable. The parts should be put as much as possible into the posture they were in when the injury was received ; and the finger should be passed in as far as it will reach, counter-pressure being at the same time made on the opposite side of the limb. In unimportant parts, the finger may be aided by a long probe or bougie, or a deeply-seated ball may sometimes be detected b}* a long, fine acupuncture needle. If the foreign body is found lying under the skin, it should be im- mediately removed by an incision, which will require to be larger than at first would be imagined. Pressure should be made to prevent the ball shifting its place during the incision, otherwise the operation will be long and vexatious. If the foreign body is near the wound, it should be removed by forceps,—the simpler the better. The orifice win mostlj' require to be dilated for this purpose, because from the natural elasticity of the skin, and the ensuing tumefaction, it will be too much contracted to allow the ball to pass out again. It is a well-established rule, that on no account are incisions to be made for the removal of foreign bodies, unless they are certain of being successful; both because of the fruitless pain created, and because of the depressing effects of a failure on the patient’s mind. The vulgar attach pecidiar importance to the extraction of the ball, and think that the patient’s safety greatly depends on it; but, in reality, leaden bul- lets cause very little inconvenience indeed, unless they happen to press on some organ of consequence. If, therefore, a ball is lodged in the middle of the thigh or other thick fleshy part, and from the direction of the wound it cannot be extracted without a very considerable in- cision, it should be left to itself;—and it will prob.ably be either brought within reach by the natural contraction of the parts, and by the flow of matter, or it may become encysted, and give no further trouble. Bullets that have become encysted arc to be cut out, if they come near the skin, or if, during any of their extraordinary changes of position, they impede the functions of any important part, otherwise manner by foreign surgeons, as tliough in compliance with some religious ordinance. Sir C. Boll’s Dissertation of Gun-shot Wouiuls, p. 45U. K