BURNS AND SCALDS. 138 If it is irritable and painful, or hot and swelled, or seems inclined to spread by ulceration, or if small abscesses threaten to form under the skin, poultices, or the water dressing, Dover's powder at bedtime, and aperients, should be resorted to. If slmighs are tardy in separating, the case must be treated like the sloughing ulcer. When the irritable state is removed, a succession of mild stimulants and astringents will be advisable; especially the zinc lotion; chalk, bismuth, zinc, or calamine ointment; simple lint; and pressure with sheet lead or strips of plaster. When the discharge is very profuse, the sore should be constantly kept tliinly covered with very finely powdered chalk. An ointment of carbonate of magnesia has been used with good effect by Mr. Partridge in the King’s College Hos- pital. Treatment of the Cicatrix.—The cicatrix of severe burns is very liable to become excessively hard, dense, and cartilaginous, and to con- tract in such a way as to occasion the most serious deformities. Thus tlie eyelids or mouth may be rendered incapable of closing; the chin may be fixed to the breast, or a limb be rigidly and immovably bent. This contraction may, perhaps, be sometimes successfully opposed, by keeping up extension with a splint, or, if the neck is the part burned, by making the patient wear a stiff collar; and by frequently moving the part during cicatrization ; and the cicatrix may be lubricated with pure oil. If the fingers are severely burned, lint should be intei'posed between them, and they should be kept apart as much as possible, although it will be very difficult to prevent them from adhering toge- ther.* In burns of the head or face, the edges of the ulcer may be drawn asunder by strips of adhesive plaster. When any of the ori- fices of the body are involved they sho\dd be kept dilated with canulae, or plugs of oiled lint. But if, notwithstanding every precaution, the cicatrix contracts, and produces deformity, or prevents any necessary motion, the knife should be resorted to. Sometimes the whole cica- trix may be extirpated, the wound being treated by water-dressing, and the parts kept in a proper position during the cure. Sometimes an incision may be made in the sound skin on each side of the cicatrix, so as to form gaps, which will be filled up with granulations;—some- times it will be useful to divide it transversely by several incisions, at the same time dissecting it up from the parts beneath if it firmly ad- heres to them ;—if the cicatrix is prominent it may be shaved off, and the wound be touched frequently with lunar caustic;—and, lastly, , there is a plan which has been adopted with success by Dr. Mutter an American surgeon, of dividing the cicatrix, dissecting it up where adherent, and even dividing any muscular fibres in order to liberate the parts completely ; and then filling up the gap by means of a lalia- cotian operation: that is, by transplanting a portion of soimd skin from some neighbouring part.’h * Vide Part IV. chapter xxiv. . . + Vide Earle’s Lectures on Bums, Lond. 1832; Dupuytren, Clinique Chirurg.; Mutter on Defomiities from Burns, in the American Journ. of Med. Sc., July,