FRACTURES OF TUE FOREARM. 245 course the carpus and metacarpus go along with it. Thus, if the back of the forearm be looked at, there is seen to be an apparent swelling, formed by the carpus and lower fragment; and immediately above this a well-marked sulcus. On the palmar side is a more extensive but less prominent swelling, which seems as if caused by the flexor tendons being thrown forward ; this swelling extends about one-third up the forearm, and terminates below at the anterior annular ligaments of the wrist. The extremity of the ulna is seen projecting towards the palm and inner side of the limb ; sometimes it is even dislocated forwards. The chief points of distinction between this injur}’ and dislocation, are the facility with which all deformity is removed by grasping the hand and making extension ; the return of deformity on ceasing the extension ; and the position of the styloid process of the radius, which moves with the hand if the case be fracture, but not if it be dislocation. Other varieties of fracture at this part are, 1, oldique fracture of the posterior margin of the articular surface of the radius, with partial dislocation of the hand backwards: * 2. Fracture of the lower end of the radius, with displacement forwards : 3. Fracture of both radius and ulna, which may be recognised by attention to the symptoms presented. Treatment.—The elbow being bent and steadied, the hand should be grasped and powerfully extended, and at the same time somewhat adducted. A pad should be placed along the extensor side of the forearm, and the thickest part of it should correspond to the displaced fragment of the radius, against which it should press so as to push it forwards and somewhat into the prone position as well. Another pad should be placed on the flexor side, but should not reach lower than the margin of the superior fragment. “ An anterior and a posterior splint,” says Ur. Smith, “ are then applied, each of which should be at least an inch broader than the forearm ; the posterior should extend from the elbow to the fingers, and should be curved from the wrist downwards to receive the adducted hand ; the anterior need not de- scend below the palm of the hand; a roller is then to be carried • Barton, Philadolphia Mod. Examiner, No. 7, 1838. The above cut is copied from Ur. Smith’s work on Fractures.