451 WRYNECK. be intiniEitely connected with the branches of the poHio dura. “ If there be reason to suspect,” says Mr. Liston, “ that the disease is of a malignant nature, and not thoroughly limited by a cellular cyst, no interference is admissible. If, on the contrary, it be at all moveable, has advanced slowly, possesses a smooth surface, and is firm (neither of stony hardness, nor pulpy), then an operation may be contem- plated.” V. Tumours in the side of the Neck, arising from enlarge- ment of the lymphatic glands, if subjacent to the skin merely, and freely moveable on the subjacent tissues, may be readily removed, but if they lie deep, and are bound down by the platysma and fascia, they require some consideration. If a tumour be of slow growth, defined in its outline, and moveable, so that it is probably not malignant, or if it interferes with deglutition or respiration, its extirpation may be attempted. The patient should always be warned of the probability of facial palsy after removal of a parotid tumour. See the remarks on the removal of tumoui's in Part V. VI. Wryneck is a peculiar distortion in which the head is bent down towards one shoulder (generally the right), and the face is turned to the opposite. The right eyebrow and right comer of the mouth generally become elevated, so as to preserve their horizontal position, notwithstanding the distortion of the neck. Varieties.—This affection presents many varieties. It may perhaps be only a part of general lateral curvature of the spine. Or, 2, it may depend on caries of the cervical vertebrae. 3. It may be caused by contraction of the cicatrix of a burn or ulcer. Or, 4, by glandular enlargement on one side of the neck ; the treatment of which cases requires no observation in this place. But the genuine wryneck is produced by permanent contraction of one sterno-mastoid muscle, which may depend, 1. on injlaminatory spasm of that muscle, with or without sub-acute inflammation of the cervical fascia. This form generally occurs somewhat suddenly to weakly children with disordered digestive organs. The skin over the muscle is often hot and tender, and any motion causes pain. Treatment.—Perfect rest in the horizontal posture, leeches, and poultices, or hot fomentations, so as to keep the skin constantl}' moist and perspirable, with purgatives and alteratives, followed by quinine.* 2. It may depend on riijid atrophy of the muscle, which may be a sequel of the state of inflammatory spasm last described, or may be congenital. Treatment.—Long-continued friction with mercurial ointment, or with lin. hydrargyri, or Scott’s ointment (F. ICO) worn as a plaster, with blisters behind the ears, and to the nape of the neck, and the use of a machine to keep up extension,+ may be of service in cases that * For furtlior information respecting this form of wryneck, consult Ahernethy, Lecture xxxii., Renshaw’s ed.; Jiuneson Infiiimination, 2nd ed. p. 484; Rrodie on Local Nervous All'ections; and Coley, Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. iv. p. 148. 1 See a plate in Cooper’s First Lines.