482 INGUINAL HERNIA. nated skin), and then denuding the pouch of invaginated skin of its cuticle by means of liquor ammonia;, so that the surfaces of skin and peritonaeum thus opposed to each other may adhere, and the neck of the sac be effectually plugged. This operation, which was proposed by M. Gerdy, has been practised by Mr. Bransby Cooper, and with some benefit. For the herniary aperture in Mr. Cooper’s patient was so large before the operation, that the bowel could not be kept up by a truss; whereas, after the operation, a common truss enabled the patient to pursue a laborious occupation with safety and comfort.* 2. The irreducible must be supported with a bag truss. If it con- tain only omentum, a common truss may perhaps be applied in the usual manner, so as to make the omentum adhere to and plug the neck of the sac. But this cannot often be borne, and is liable to induce swelled testicle. 3. In performing the taxis for the relief of strangulated oblique inguinal hernia, the patient should be placed in the position described in a foregoing page (474), with his thighs as close together as possible (although the surgeon must put one arm between them), and the pres- sure must be made upwards and outwards. The ojteration for this hernia is performed thus :—The parts being shaved, and the skin made tense, an incision three or four inches long must be made through the skin, along the axis of the tumour, begin- ning from above its neck. This will be quite long enough, even for the largest hernia ; because the object is to bring the seat of stricture fully into view, without exposing too much of the sac. Then the suc- cessive coverings before enumerated, are usually divided in the follow- ing manner: — a little bit of each is pinched up with forceps, and cut into with the knife held horizontally; a director is passed into this little aperture, and the layer is then divided on it to the extent of the incision in the skin. Cautious operators will find (or make) many more layers than those usuallj' enumelnted, which are, in fact, easily subdivisible, especially in old herniae. When at last the sac is reached, which will be known by its bluish transparency, it is to be opened sufficiently to admit the finger, a little bit of it being first pinched up and cut through, so as to admit the director. Then the left fore-finger should be passed up into the neck of the sack to seek for the stricture, which will generally be at the internal ring. It may be at the external ring (or at both) ; but wherever it may be, it must be dilated so as to allow the finger to pass into the abdomen. A curved blunt-pointed bistoury or hernia knife—not cutting quite up to the point—should be passed up flat on the finger through the stricture, and its edge be then turned up so as to divide it; and in every case the division should be made directly upxvards, parallel to the linea alba; and then, whether the hernia be direct or oblique, • Bransby Cooper, Guy’s Hosp. Bep., Oct. 1S40. For notices of other plans, see a ca.«e in Provincial Med. Journ., 16th Oct. 1841; B. and F. Wed. Bev., July, 1845; Lancet, Feb. 21, 1840.