EFFUSION OF SERUM AND (EDEMA. 44 of silver, salts of mercury, &c. The application of cold by pumping is often highly serviceable. These or any other measures will be known to do good if they make the part feel stronger and more comfortable, although their first application may have been painful ; but if they render it hotter and permanently painful, it is a sign that they sti- mulate too highly, and may thus endanger the production of acute inflammation. Couvter-irritanis are more useful in chronic inflammation than in the acute, especially those which establish a permanent suppurative discharge. Pressure, if gentle, equal, and continuous, is of material use in many chronic inflammations, and even in acute inflammation of the breast and testicle, when its first violence has been diminished by bleeding. CHAPTER VI. , OF EFFUSION OF SERUM AND CEDEMA. General Description.—Effusion of serum is the earliest and most constant effect of inflammation, the liquid being poured out equally into the interstitial cellular tissue,—into the parenchyma of organs—from mucous and serous surfaces, and from the skin. If it is followed by any of the other effects of inflammation, it is always more widely extended than they are. But it may be the chief or onlj^ effect of inflammation, as in oedema glottidis, and the so-called acute hydrocephalus; and some subacute inflammations of the serous membranes. In patients of a lax, flabby habit of body, and in parts of loose and cellular structure, as the prepuce, eyelids, and scrotum, inflammation always produces more of this effect than in those of a firmer texture. The serous liquid effused in consequence of inflammation, is not, as Mr. Paget observes, the merely albuminous liquid which is commonly known by that name, and which is exuded in passive dropsy, but is in reality liquor sanguinis, and contains a variable quantity of fibrine ; as may be readily proved by the spontaneous coagulation which takes place in the so-called serum exhaled from the skin under a blister of cantharides. It is difficult to explain why the effusion remains within the body, as it may for many days and even weeks, without the fibrine separating and becoming solid. The so called inflammatory serous effusion may terminate in four ways:—1st. It usually becomes quickly absorbed ; an event, which is hastened by such purgatives and diuretics and tonics, as tend to drain the blood of impure materials, and give vigour to the circula- tion, and bj' bandages and other means of local stimulation. 2ndly, In some cases it resists absorption for a long period, or altogether ; of