546 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. epididymis is lost. Sometimes the tunica vaginalis is partially adhe- rent to the testicle. Sometimes loose cartilages are found in the sac ; they are easily removed hy a slight incision. Trcatmint.—The remedies for hydrocele are threefold. 1. Strong discutient lotions (F. 118, &c.), which sometimes assist the cure in children, but cannot be depended on for adults. 2. Evacuation of the serum, or the palliative cure. This may be accomplished by a punc- ture with a common lancet, or trocar; but the method most commonly adopted at present, consists in making a number of punctures with a grooved needle, so that the fluid may escape from the tunica vaginalis into the cellular tissue of the scrotum whence it is readily absorbed. This palliative treatment is always sufficient for children, but very rarely so in the case of adults. 3. Tiadical Cure.—This, which is generally necessarj'- for adults, is performed by injecting certain stimulating fluids, or by introducing setons, or other foreign substances into the tunica vaginalis, in order to excite a degree of inflammation sufficient to destroy its secreting faculty. It must not be forgotten, however, that this radical cure is totally inadmissible if the testis is diseased, or if the hj-drocele is complicated with an irreducible hernia, or if the tunica vaginalis pre- serves its communication with the abdomen, hlere thickening from 2}rcvious disease is, however, no objection. Operation.—The surgeon grasps the tumour behind, and introduces a troair and canula into the sac, pointing the instrument upwards, so that it may not wound the testicle. He next withdraws the trocar, at the same time pushing the canula well into the sac, so that none of the fluid tliat is to be injected may pass into the cellular tissue of the scrotum. When all the serum has escaped, he injects from two to four ounces of some stimulating fluid through the canula, b}' means of an elastic bottle fitted with a stop-cock. Equal p.artsof port wine and water or zinc lotion (F. 117) are commonly used. Mr. Curling prefers common lime water. When the fluid has remained from three to five minutes, according to the degree of pain which it causes, it is suffered to flow out, and the canula is withdrawn. Some degree of inflamma- tion follows, and more effusion into the sac—but the latter genemlly disappears in a fortnight or three weeks. If the cure is not quite perfect, the operation may be repeated after a few weeks. Hut the remedy most in favour at present is the tincture of iodine, which was used with verj’’ great success at Calcutta, by JMr. Alartin. The dis- ease is so common in the East, that IMr. Martin can refer to thousands of successful cases. The sac having been punctured with a small trocar and canula, about one or two drachms of a mixture of one part tincture of iodine, and two of water are injected .and allowed to remain in the .sac. Mr. Fergusson uses for this purpose a small glass syringe, with a silver or platinum nozzle made to fit the canula. One advantage this method certainlj' has; namel}', that there is much less chance of extravasation into the scrotum, th.an when the sac is filled with many ounces of fluid.