Ill GELATINIFORM CANCER. dental resemblance to the organs or substances after which they are named. The disseminated globose sarcoma, which has been recently described, consists of tuberous masses of this disease deposited in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Diagnosis.—This disease is to be distinguished from scirrhus by the absence of hardness and lancinating pain ;—by the greater rapidity of its growth;—by the larger size it attains, tumours the size of a man’s head being not uncommon ;—by the earlier and more decided cachexia ;—by its attacking persons of eveiy age, and being more fre- quent in the young, whereas scirrhus is exceedingly rare under thirty; —and by its disposition to fungate rather than to ulcerate. Prognosis.—This of course will be highly unfavourable, the patient sinking much sooner than in scirrhus. Treatment.—The constitutional treatment is the same as directed for scirrhus. Leeches frequently applied at the earliest appearance of the disease will sometimes retard its progress. Cold or iced applica- tions, and the ligature of the principal arteries supplying the tumoiu', have been recommended for the same purpose, but are not worth try- ing. Extirpation is hardly to be thought of, because the disease is sure to return, perhaps before the wound has healed. Hamorrhagc in this disease, or in cancer, may be restrained by pressure with a piece of lint. SECTION IV.—OF GELATINIFORM CANCER. Gelatiniform Cancer.— (Syn. Tumcur Colloid, Carci- noma alvcolare.) — This re- markable growth is seen, on a section, to be composed of in- numerable white interlacing fibres, forming distinct loculi or partitions of a tolerably regular spherical shape. These loculi vary from the size of a grain of sand to that of a pea, and are filled with a soft, viscous jelly, of greenish yellow colour, which generally is clear and transparent, but occasionally turbid and opakc. The jelly- like matter is composed entire!)' of albumen, and retains its transparency in alcohol. This form of malignant growth generally infests the stomach and omentum, as exhibited in the preceding drawing from a preparation in the King’s • Of the two smaller figures, one exhibits the circular loculi as they appear on a section ; the other shows the compound spherical character of the malignant growth itself.