435 CHAPTER XV. OF THE SURGICAL DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE NECK. SECTION I.—SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE FAUCES. I. Acute Inflammation of the Tonsil is known by rapid swelling of the part, great pain in deglutition, and fever. It must be treated by leeches or bleeding, purgatives, gargles calculated to pro- mote the secretion of saliva (F. 107), and the ordinary antiphlogistic routine. If the gland continue to swell, or if it occasion any embar- rassment to the breathing, an incision should be made into it to imload the vessels, and give exit to matter. The tongue should be depressed with one fore-finger, whilst a straight bistoury WTapped round with lint except an inch and a half of its point, is plunged directly into the tumour, and made to cut its way out towards the median line. Abscesses behind the pharynx require similar treatment. II. Chronic Enlargement of the Tonsil is a frequent sequel of repeated inflammation, especially in scrofulous children. Jt causes sundry inconveniences. The parts are liable to frequent attacks of acute inflammation; deglutition is impeded; the voice is rendered hoarse ; respiration is noisy and laborious, especially during sleep ; there is more or less deafness from the obstruction of the Eustachian tubes; and suffocation has even been caused by viscid mucus entangled between the swollen glands. The tonsil has been, in rare cases, the seat of malignant disease. Treutineni.—In the first place the system must be strengthened, and the secretions be kept up by proper tonics and alteratives. The iodide of iron, or the combination of corrosive sublimate with tiiict. cinchonie, maj^ often be administered with benefit. At the same time, absorption of the tumour must be promoted by astringent gargles, by swabbing it once a day with strong lotions of arg. nit., or cupri sulph. or liq. iodinii, by applying stimulating, or mercurial, or ioduretted liniments and ointments to the skin. But if these measures fail, and such an operation is deemed necessary, part of the gland should be removed with the knife—a much more expeditious and cleanly method than the ligature. The surgeon seizes the tumour with a hook or vulsellum (depressing the tongue wi,th its handle), then introduces a blunt-pointed curved liistoury, and shaves it off, cutting upwards, parallel to the isthmus faucium. The nearest half of the blade of the bistoury should be wrapped in lint, to prevent the lips from being cut ; and in operating on the right side, the surgeon will find it most con- venient to cross his hands ; the left, holding the vulsellum, being undermost. Very little should be removed; not only to avoid • hmmorrhage, but likewise because of the possible truth of Mr. Harvey’s