287 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. falls on the hack ; hut these accidents are very rare. A case is related in which the heads of the last two ribs were driven forwards from the spine, in a boy of eleven, by a violent blow on the back ; abscess fonned, and the case terminated fatally.* The body of the sternum has also been dislocated in front of the manubrium, and the ensifonn cartilage is sometimes separated. In all these cases, the same local and constitutional treatment must be adopted that was prescribed for fracture. VIII. Dislocations of the Hip-Joint.—There are four principal varieties of this dislocation. 1 st. The dislocation upwards ; in which the head of the bone is thrown on the dorsum ilii. 2dly, The disloca- tion backwards on the sciatic notch ; 3rdly, downwards, on the obtu- rator externus muscle; and 4thly,forwards, on the os pubis. Besides which there are two or three others that are exceedingly rare. 1. Dislocation upmirds on the dorsum ilii is the most frequent. Symptoms.—The limb is from an inch and a half to two inches and a half shorter than the other; the toes rest on the opposite instep; the knee is turned inwards, and is a little advanced upon the other; the limb can be slightly bent across the other, hut cannot be moved out- wards ; the trochanter is less pro- minent than the other, and nearer the spine of the ilium ; and if the patient is thin, and there is no swelling, the head of the bone can be felt in its new situation. Diaynosis.—Fracture of the cer- vix femoris may be distinguished from this dislocation hj' the circum- stance that the limb can be freely moved in any direction, although with some pain; that it is turned outwards instead of inwards; and that it can bo drawm to its proper length by moderate extension, but becomes shortened again as soon as the extension is discontinued : whereas in dislocation, it requires a forcible extension to restore the limb to its proper length and shape ; but when once the head of the bone is replaced in its socket, it re- mains there.+ • Dublin Med. Press, 3rd Feb. 1841. t Tliere are a few cases on record of fracture of the upper extremity of tlie femur, in which a portion of tlie gi-eat trochanter was broken oil', .and drawn by the muscles backwards on the dor.sum ilii, into the position usually occupied by the head of the bone when dislocated; .so that the natui'o of the accident was obscure.