SYNOVIAL ilEMBRANE. 2G5 the surface of the joint; and when they get between the ends of the bones, wliich they ai-e very apt to do during exercise, they cause sudden excruciating pain and faintness, followed by inflam- mation. Treatment.—If possible, the cartilage should be fixed by bandages, so as to prevent it from getting between the bones ; otherwise it must be removed ; taking care to prepare ^ the patient by rest, low diet, and purga- tives, and to use every precaution against inflammation afterwards. The ordinary way of operating consists, first, in pushing the cartilage to the upper part of the joint on one side of the patella, and steadying it there against the condyle of the femur ; then the skin having been drawn slightly upwards, an incision is made down to the cartilage of sufficient length to let it escape. But there is a plan of ope- rating by subcutaneous incision, which seems to have been proposed almost simul- taneously by Mr. Syme of Edinburgh, and M. Goyraud, and which avoids the danger of a direct wound into the joint. Accord- ing to this plan, the cartilage having been pushed up as high as possible into one of the synovial pouches by the side of the patella, a long narrow knife is passed down upon it through the skin two or three inches above, and made to divide the synovial membrane to such an extent, that the cartilage may be squeezed through it into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, but without enlarging the wound in the skin. There the cartilage must remain till the wound in the synovial membrane has had time to heal ; and then it may, if desired, be easily removed by an incision through the skin ; but if it causes no inconvenience it may bo allowed to rcmain.+ VII. Pendulous Fleshy or Gristly Tumours may produce I manj' of the symptoms of loose cartilages. They may, perhaps, be distinguished by being less hard, and by being stationarj\ They 1 have been extirpated from the knee, but of course with very great 1 hazard to life. SECTION II.—INFLAAIMATION OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. Inflammation of the cellular tissue around a joint is a peculiar affec- tion, particularly described by Mr. Wickham. It commences with ia tolerably firm swelling, various in extent; attended with slight * This cut exhibits a par.-u*itic cartilage, shaped like a melon seed—in its original situation. From the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital, t Vide H. ife F. Med. Ueview, vol. xi. p. 52(5, and Fergusson’s Practical I'Surgery, p. 321.