OVARIOTOMY. 460 patients otherwise healthy, with a still growing, but non-adherent tumour. The surgeon who determines to extirpate a diseased ovarj’-, should ascertain that the general health is such as would be desired in any patient who was to undergo a capital operation ; he should carefully estimate the size of the tumour ; the amount of solid matter it con- tains, as indicated by more or less perfect fluctuation over its surface, and in particular should endeavour to estimate whether it adheres to the abdominal parietes or viscera. This he may do in some measure by noticing whether it shifts its place as the patient rolls herself from side to side ; and also by a very ingenious test which the author has seen used by Dr. F. Bird ; namely, by putting the abdominal muscles in action, and noticing whether they rise much from the sui face of the tumour. Thus, if the patient whilst lying on her back be told to raise herself up in bed without using her arms, the recti muscles will start up into a prominent band if their sheath is not bound down by ad- hesions on its peritonaeal surface, but not if it is. B}' observing also, as Dr. Sibson suggests, whether the tumour descends during inspira- tion, and by grasping and endeavouring to slide the abdominal parietes over the tumour, much valuable information will be derived. There are two modes of operating. The first is by means of a long incision from sternum to pubes ; which was practised some years ago by Me Dowall, of Kentucky, and by Mr. Lizars, and of late by Dr. Clay of Manchester. The manner of operating, and the previous and subsequent treatment which Dr. Clay adopted were as follows:—The night before the operation he gave ten grains of inspissated oxgall, and repeated it in the morning, believing it to have the power of evacuating the alimentary canal and of dispelling flatulence with the least possible amount of irritation. The patient being placed com- fortably on a table, he severed the integuments from sternum to pubes with one stroke—an incision 24 inches long ; then having carefully cut through the peritonaium at the upper part, sufficiently to introduce two fingers of his left hand, he passed in a probe-pointed bistour}', and, under the protection of his fingers, divided the peritonaeum to tlie extent of the first incision. The pedicle of the tumour, one of the broad ligaments, was then firmly tied and cut through ; but as it was excessively thick, some of the vessels in it continued to bleed and required separate ligatures. The hands were now passed round the tumour in search of adhesions; some that were soft and recent gave way readily to the slightest touch : but an extensive omental adhesion required to be divided by the scalpel, and a vessel that bled freely was secured. The tumour was then lifted up and removed. 'When all bleeding had ceased, the integuments were brought together with nine stitches, and straps of adhesive plaster ; and a broad bandage was passed round the body. The subsequent treatment consisted^ in giving small doses of henbane and morphia when necessary ; opening the bowels by clysters ; relieving flatulence by introducing a gum elastic tube ; and nourishing the patient with as simple a diet as