60 OHRONIO ABSCESS. SECTION III. CHRONIC ABSCESS. General Description.—Chronic abscesses are the result of a low degree of inflammation ; so slight indeed, that their existence is often unsuspected for a long time. They are mostly lined with a thin, red- dish grey, distinctly organised cyst;—there is little or no vascularity in the parts adjoining;—and the pus usually is serotis or curdy. They are often deep-seated, whilst the acute are mostly superficial. Causes.—The causes are chronic disease of bone, or other source of slow irritation, in a weak and scrofulous habit. Symptoms.—When first detected, a chronic abscess appears as an obscure tumour, with a fluctuation more or less distinct according to its distance from the surface. It is free from pain, tenderness, swell- ing, and redness, unless far advanced or accidentally inflamed. Progress.—These abscesses may attain an enormous magnitude, before the coverings ulcerate. When, however, from the increasing distension, or from some accidental irritation, this does happen, the skin reddens, inflames, and ulcerates, and so the matter is dis- charged. Termination.s.—(1.) In slight cases the interior of the sac pours out granulations;—the reddened skin around the orifice ulcerates;—and the sore so formed may heal. (2.) If the restorative powers are weak, or the abscess is caused by a piece of diseased bone or some other source of irritation which is not removed, one or more simcses may remain. (3 ) If, on the other hand, the abscess is very large, or if, after the admission of air, the pus have not a free exit, a most serious train of consequences will ensue. The pus, exposed to the atmosphere, putrefies;—the hydrosulphate of ammonia (the product of putrefaction) is .absorbed into the blood;*—the interior of the sac inflames,—and then the grave and irreparable local disease, together with the con- tamination of the blood, induces typhoid fever, under which the patient sinks. Prognosis.—Hence the danger of these abscesses will be great, if the sac has attained a large size, and has advanced so far towards ul- ceration, that a spontaneous and permanent aperture is inevitable ;— more especially if it is connected with diseased hip or vertebrae, which will keep up the secretion of pus, and prevent it from closing. Treatment.—There are three mdications: (1.) To amend the general health by pure air, proper regimen, and other means detailed in the Chapters on Chronic Inflammation and Scrofula. If (as in the case of psoas and lumbar abscess) the abscess has been caused by some local disease, the latter must, if possible, be ascertained, and removed by proper measures. • It may be detected in tlie blood and urine. Tlie blood in these cases is black, and refuses to coagulate;—which is precisely the ell'ect produced by add- ing the hydrosulphate of ammonia to healthy blood. Vide M. Bonnet’s Papers in the Med. Gaz. vol. xxi.