93 SCROF0LA. General Description.—There arc two varieties of scrofulous habits, which, although they agree in the main essential of constitu- tional debility, are yet totally opposite in many respects. In the first (or sanguine variety), the skin is remarkably fair and thin, showing the blue veins through it, and presentingthe most brilliant contrast of red and white ; the eyes are light blue ; the hair light or reddish, the forehead ample, and the intellect livel}' and precocious. Sometimes, however, as Mayo observes, the skin is dark and transparent, and the eyes dark, although there is the same general characteristic of delicacy and vivacity.* In the second (or phlegmatic) variety, the whole aspect is dull and unpromising ;—the skin thick and muddy; the hair dark and coarse ; the eyes greenish or hazel, with dilated pupils; the belly tumid, and the disposition dull, heavy, and listless to outward appearance; al- though persons of this conformation will often be found to possess a clear, vigorous intellect, and powers of application far above the average. The great Dr. .lohnson is an example. In both varieties the natural functions are liable to be performed irregidarly. Digestion is weak, the tongue often furred, and red on its tip and edges ;—the upper lip swelled ;—the appetite sometimes deficient, but more usually excessive, and attended with a craving for indigestible substances ;—the mucous meniljrane of the tliroat and tonsils flabby;—the bowels torpid;—the blood thin and watery— its coagulum soft and small the muscles pale and flabby ;—and the heart and arteries, as well as the intestines, thin and weak.+ In the sanguine variety, the growth is generally rapid, and the bodily conformation good, as far as outward form is concerned—the limbs well made, the stature tall, aud the chest broad. Puberty also is early, and sexual passion is often strongly manifested before the degree of bodily strength permits it to be indulged in with impunity. This is peculiarly the case with the females ; who are usually re- markable for that early and evanescent beauty which arises from a development of the adipose tissue. In the phlegmatic variety, on the other hand, the growth is often stunted, the chest narrow, and the limbs deformed with rickets, and puberty retarded, especially in the females, who are liable to prolonged chlorosis.'^ Narrowness of the chest depends on softness of the ribs and their cartilages, through which they yield to the atmosplieric pressure, when the diaphragm descends in the act of inspinttion.J Cal'se.s.—Scrofula being thus defined to bo a peculiar state of the constitution, it may be shown, yicsi, that it may be congenital and hereditary ; that is to say, that scrofulous parents may transmit their peculiar organization, and predisposition to disease, to their children. • Philo.soplij’ of Living, 2ii(i edit. 1838, p. 24. t Mr. I’liillips lias remarked that tlie proportion of saline matter in the blood is considcraljly increased in most cases, and tliat the albumen also is in excess On Scrofula, bond. 184(), p. 57. t Vide Dr. Sibson, Med. (iaz., N. S., vol. vi. p. 755.