BURNS AND SOALDS. 135 Tlie periods of danger in burns are three ; 1st, during the first five days; from collapse or imperfect reaction; '2ndly, during the sympathetic fever which follows, in which tlie patient may sink with an aft'ection of the head, chest, or abdomen ; 3rdly, during the suppu- rative stage, in which he may die from the profuse discharge, or from pulmonary consumption induced by it. Kentish observes that very many cases prove fatal on the ninth day. Morbid Anato.viv.—A post mortem examination readily accounts for the coma and laborious breathing, which are such constant symp- toms of fatal burns. Congestion and serous effusion are found on the surface and in the ventricles of the brain;—and the air cells of the lungs are loaded with a thin muco-serous fluid, as in the “ suffocative catarrh of the dying ” of Laennec. Moreover it has been shown by Mr. Curling,* that severe burns in young people are sometimes fol- lowed bj' an acute ulceration of the duodenum, commencing probably in Brunner’s glands, and liable to terminate fatally, by perforating the intestine and causing peritonitis; or by opening some large artery and causing effusion of blood, part of which maybe evacuated by vomiting and pm’ging. The cause of these visceral affections is supposed to be the cessation of the exhalent function of the injured portion of skin;— but this explanation merely adds to the obscurity. Treatment.— The treatment of burns in their early stage has been a matter of great dispute. Some eminent surgeons T have advo- cated ice or other cooling applications ; others, the use of turpentine and other stimulants ; which latter plan of treatment was ably advo- cated by Mr. Kentish of Newcastle, at the beginning of the present century. The following, however, seem to be the principles of treatment de- ducible from the conflicting theories and practices which have been proposed; viz., 1st, that the. first applications should be of a mildly sti- mulating nature ; 2ndly, that after the first two or three days they should be soothing ; till, 3rdly, slight astringents may be applied to expedite the healing ; and 4thly, that the part should throughout be most carefully preserved from the atmospheric air and from cold. If these principles are held in view, the surgeon will have no difficulty in finding appropriate remedies. Local Treatment of minor cases.—In slight cases of the first and second degrees, the vesications should be pricked with a needle to take off their tension, and the whole burned part be covered with lint soaked in a liniment of equal parts of oil and lime-water, and then be wrapped in soft cotton wool. After the first two days zinc lotion may be applied on lint covered with oil-silk; or a broad-and-milk poultice, or the water-dressing if the part is much inflamed ; the chalk oint- ment may be applied afterwards till the cure is complete. The part should bo kept thickly wrapped in cotton wool during the whole period, to preserve it from the air, and from cold or injury. • Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxv. t Earle’s Lectures on Burns, Lond. 1832.