DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 290 of effecting this. In the first place, the patient may he laid on his biick on a bed, with one of the bedposts between his thighs, and close np to the perinanmi. Then the foot may be carried inwards, across the median line ; so that the bed-post, acting ns a fulcrum, may throw the head of the femur outwards. Hut the foot must not be ruiiiftl, otherwise the head of the femur may slip round under the acetabulum into the sciatic notch. (2.) Or the pelvis may be fixed by straps, and the pulleys be applied to the upper part of the thigh, to draw it outwarils; whilst the knee is at the sjime time pulled downwards and inwards. 4. In the dislocation w;>- minis und /onnirds (on the pubes), the limb is shortened about an inch ; very moveable; it is drawn away from the other, and the foot points directly out- wards; the head of the bone may be plainly felt below I’oupart's ligament; and by this circumstance this dis- location may be distin- guished from fracture of the cervix femoris. 'rn'utmeiit.—The patient is to be laid on the sound side; extension should be made with the pulleys in a direction backwards and outwards; and after it has been continued a little time, the head of the bone should be lifted over the edge of the acetabulum by means of a napkin. Sir i)(Stley Cooper has decided that eight weeks is the latest period after which it is justifiable to attempt the reduction of a dislocated hip, except in persons of extremely relaxed fibre or of advanced age ; and numerous instances are on record of death from abscesses or phlebitis, occasioned by violent extension at a later period. With respect to the relative frequency of these dislocations. Sir A, Cooper believed that out of twenty cases, twelve would be on the dorsum ilii, five in the ischiatic notch, two in the foramen ovale, and one on the pubes.* * These dislocations generally happen to adnlts. In very old people it is more common for the cervix femoris to give way. They are also rarely met with in chililren, although Sir A. Cooper relates one case which happened to a boy of seven; Mr. Tnrvers, Junr. one to a boy of five; and the late Mr. I’lace, of Wim-