327 NEURALGIA. transient are its effects. Sometimes, after repeated divisions, the pain is as severe as ever, althougli the part may become quite numb and insensible to the touch. The infraorbital and mental nerves (which may be divided from within the mouth just as they escape from their foramina), the frontal, the radial, just after it has passed between the supinator tendon and the bone, and the digital, .are those which h.ave been most frequently operated upon. VI. Anomalous Nervous Affections.—The same loc.al and constitutional causes that give rise to neuralgia, may also occasion every other symptom that can be produced by functional nervous dis- order ; such as rigid and permanent spasm (as in wry neck), or twitching and convulsion of muscles; difficulty of swallowing and performing evacuations, owing to spasm of the oesophagus, of the sphincter ani, or of the perineal muscles; sneezing, dumbness, stam- mering, thirst, .and affections of the sight and hearing. The treat- ment must be conducted on the same principles. VII. Hysterical Neuralgia.—Hysteric.al fem.ales are liable to suffer from various obstinate maladies which simulate serious organic diseases. In particular they arc e.xceedingly subject to severe and permanent pain and tenderness of the joints (especially the knee or hip) ; with weakness of the limb, and inability to use it ; or to pain and tenderness of the spine, with perhaps spasms, or weakness of the legs, t3unpanites of the bell}', and palsy of the bladder ; symptoms, in fact, of ulcerative disease of the joints or spine, that might mislead careless practitioners ; more especially as they are often attributed to some injury. In fact, they present the sensutiojis of organic disease, with none of the re.ality. These cases may be known by observing that the patients are young females (or effeminate males); generally the spoiled children of the rich; or, at all events, persons in whom the feelings have been allowed to get the mastery, whilst self-control, .abstinence, and firmness of mind and body have never been incul- cated. The patients have generally some c.ause of wretchedness, real or imagin.ary; perhaps their affections have been blighted; orperhaps when their lover has become their husband, they may have foimd themselves unable to settle down to the duties and dull realities of life. Most likely (but not invariably) they are subject to irregular menstruation, torpid bowels, and coldness of the extremities ; or per- haps to well marked fits of hysterical sobbing and choking. Not un- commonly some intimate friend has laboured under a similar complaint just previously. The pain is greatly aggravated by motion or pres- sure ; but it seems to be principally seated in the skin; and the patient shrinks from the least touch; whilst, if her attention be engaged elsewhere, a somewhat nide examination m.ay be made with- out complaint. The pain often prevents the patient from sleeping, but once asleej), she may continue so for hours. There may be some degree of swelling, but it is puffy and diffused, and comes and goes capriciously. These complaints may hast many years in defiance of all treatment, and then may vanish suddenly without assignable