DISEASES AND INJURIES OP 206 3rdly. But if these measures do not speedily succeed, the diseased surface must be destroyed bj' escharotics, of which arsenic and the chloride of zinc are the best. The arsenic may be applied in the form of ointment or solution (3i. ad. ^i.) on lint, suffered to remain four or five hours. The chloride of zinc is a highly deliquescent salt, and is therefore ingeniously recommended by Mr. Ure, who introduced its use into this country, to be combined with two parts of fresh burned plaster of Paris, or it may be mixed ivith flour. In either case it is to be made into a paste with a little water, and be spread accurately with a spatula on the diseased surface, and allowed to remain for four or five hours. It causes severe pain for eight or nine hours, which, however, may be relieved by opium. When a suspicious tubercle is increased rapidly, but not ulcerating, it should also be destroyed with the chloride; but in this case, the cuticle should be first removed with the liquor ammonim. Caustic pastes may also be made with two parts of powdered potassa fusa, and one of soft soap ; or of three parts of quick-lime, and two of dry soap, moistened at the time of using with spirits of wine; or of three parts of caustic potass and two of fresh burned lime incorporated in a hot iron mortar. The last is called the Vienna paste; the lime is useful in correcting the deliquescent and diffusive power of the potass. When either of these caustics is used, the neighbouring sound parts should be protected by layers of sticking plaster. After the sloughs have separated, which generally happens in from six to twelve days, according to their depth, the surface must be treated with a weak solution of nitrate of silver; but as often as there appears any return of the ulcerative process, the caustic must be applied again and again.* CHAPTER III. OF DISEASES AND INJUBIES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND BURS.E. V I. Simple Atrophy of muscle, with more or less fatty degenera- tion, may arise from want of exercise, however caused. Moreover, it sometimes happens, that after a fever, or after injury, or disease, or exposure to cold, or after some affection of the nervous centres, one arm, or one leg, or both legs are smitten as it were with a blight. The affected member is alwa}'s chilly; its skin is numb: it is imper- fectly nourished, and decreases in bulk ; if the patient is young, it • Ure on Lupus and the Chloride of Zinc, Med. Gaz. vol. xvii. and xviii.; and Cyclop. Pract. Surg. Art. Cauterants; Earle, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii.; Travers, j&. vol. xv.; Burgess’ Trans, of Cazenave, p. 260; Brodie, Surgical Lectures; VValshe, op. cit. p. 548; Liston, Lectures in Lancet, 1844, vol. i. p, 775.