ACUTE TETANUS. 2iidly, exposure to cold damp night air during warm weatlier, or in a warm climate; consequently, tetanus is much more prevalent and fatal in warm than in cold or temperate climates. The same causes, cold and visceral irritation namelj', which pre- dispose to the traumatic, may of themselves produce the idiopathic tetanus. Thus the latter may be a consequence of vaiioiis visceral im- tations, especially of the womb. Whytt gives the case of a girl, aged twenty, who caught cold during the menstrual period, and died of tetanus in eighteen hours ; and the author knows a case in which fatal trismus followed uterine irritation, consequent on abortion.(‘^) Tetanus may also be caused by certain narcotico-acrid poisons, espe- ciallj' the nux vomica, cicuta aquatica, and a .Javanese poison called chetik. Pathology.—The spasms of tetanus, affecting as they do alt the voluntary muscles, must evidently depend on some morbid condition of that central org.an, the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, from which all the voluntary muscles are supplied with nerves. And this morbid condition ma)' depend on centric causes, that is on causes affecting the spinal marrow itself; or on excentric causes ; that is to say, on irrita- tion of some other part of the body,_which irritation is conveyed to the spinal cord by the sentient or aj/lsrent, or, in Dr. Hall’s language, ex- cito-motor nerves. With respect to the nature of this morbid condition, it cannot be regarded as essentially inflammatory, because the sjnnal cord is often found after death without a trace of vascularity, and because tetanus may be established during a state of depression and collapse that would be quite incompatible with inflammation. Although, however, it is most certain that infl.ammation is not essential to the existence of tetanus, still it is equally certain that there is one class of tetanic cases which presents a well-marked in- flammatory character. They commence with shivering and pain, are attended with fever, .and, if fatal, display on inspection, congestion, serous effusion, softening or purulent deposit, in some part of the brain or spinal cord.(f) But this class is by no means a m.ajority. It must be concluded, therefore, that tetanus is merelj^ a manifesta- tion of functional disorder in one department of the nervous system, and that the ne.arest approach we can make to a correct patliological definition is to s.ay, that it consists in an unnatural excitability of the spinal cord, through which it produces spasm of the voluntary muscles; a spasm that is aggravated by the slightest impression on tlie sentient or afferent or cacito-motor nerves. Tkeatment.—Bearing in mind what has been just said, viz. that tetanus seems to depend on an unnatural excitability of the spinal cord ; and that it may be caused either by (centric) changes in the cord itself, or by (excentric) irritation of other parts of the body, it will be evident that the rational indications in the treatment must be, first, to remove all excentric causes of irritation, whether caused by a wound, by sordes in the bowels, or the like ; 2, to dimi- 0