FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 485 nishes wlien the patient lies down ; but then, if pressure be made below Poupart’s ligament, the swelling quickly reappears, although it must be evident that under such circumstances a hernia could not come down. 4. Bubo and other tumours of the groin may in most cases be recog- nised by their general character and history, and by their being un- attended with symptoms of inllamraation or obstruction of the bowels. But if there be any such swelling, and symptoms of strangulation as well, an incision should certainly be made to examine it; for there may be a tumour that may be satisfactorily proved to be an enlarged gland, and yet there may be a small knuckle of intestine strangulated behind it. Such a case occurred lately to the author’s friend and col- league, Mr. R. R. Robinson. Treatment.—l.The reducible femoral hernia should be supported by a truss; the pad of which should tell against the hollow which is just inferior and external to the spinous process of the pubes. This hernia is very seldom, if ever, cured radicallj'. 2. The irreducible should be supported by a truss with a hollow pad ; or perhaps (if it be omental) the pressure of a common pad may be borne. 3. The femoral hernia, when strangidated, fives rise to much severer symptoms than the inguinal does, because of the denser and more unj'ielding nature of the parts which surround the neck of the sac. In performing the taxis, the patient shoidd be placed in the usual position, with the thigh of the affected side much rolled inwards, and crossed over towards the other side. The tumour should first be drawn downwards, from the anterior part of Poupart’s ligament, and then be pressed with the points of the fingers backwards and upwards. If, however, the taxis and chloroform do not soon succeed, the operation should be resorted to. Operation.—In the first place, the skin must be divided. Some surgeons make one simple perpendicular incision. Sir A. Cooper directs one like an inverted j,; Mr. Liston prefers making one incision along Poupart’s ligament, and another falling perpendicularly from its centre so that the skin can be turned back in three flaps; after which the succeeding layers may be divided by a simple longitudinal incision. Then the different cellular layers down to the sac must be divided by the bistoury and director, as in the "inguinal hernia, and the sac must be opened with very great care, because it is generally very small, and embraces the bowel tiglitly, and seldom contains any serum or omentum. Then the finger should be passed up to seek for the stric- ture, which, according to Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Liston, will be generally found to be the inner edge of the falciform process. This must bo gently divided for a line or two, the incision being directed over the tumour, thus ; expeditiously divided by ning the knife through Mr. Fergusson sonie- The skin may be very safely and pinching it up into a fold, and run- it with its back towards the sac. times makes one like an inverted