527 STONE IN THE KIDNEY AND URETER. same tests as the preceding, and besides it evolves ammonia when treated by liq. potassaj. III. Phosphate of Lime or hone earth calculi are rare. They are pale brown, friable, and laminated. Tests.—Soluble in nitric or muriatic acids, and precipitated by liq. ammoniae; infusible except at a very intense heat. IV. Triple Phosphate {of ammonia and magjicsia) forms white or pale gray calculi, composed of small brilliant crystals. Tests.— Soluble in acetic or muriatic acid; evolves ammonia when treated with liq. potass®. V. The Fusible Calculus is formed of the phosphate of lime and triple phosphate mixed. It forms a white friable mass like mortar, and is very fusible. VI. The Mulberry Calculus is composed of oxalate of lime. It is dark red, rough, and tuberculated. Tests.—Soluble in nitric acid, and if exposed to the blowpipe, the acid is burned oflf, and quick lime is left, which, if moistened, reddens turmeric paper. VII. Besides the above, calculi are sometimes composed of car- bonate of lime, cystic oxide (a peculiar animal substance, soluble both in alkalis and dilute mineral acids, and containing much sulphur), fibrinc of the blood, and xanthic or uric oxyde, a peculiar animal matter allied to vu'ic acid. The lithate of soda, the lithate and carbonate of magnesia, and silica are also rare ingredients in calculi. Alternating Calculi. Sometimes stones are composed of alternate layers of lithic acid and oxalate of lime; and very commonly the outer layers of a stone are phosphatic, the nucleus lithic or mulberry. The phosphates commonly succeed the other deposits, being surely produced after a time by the irritation of the mucous membrane ; but the lithic and mulberry never coat the phosphates. section X.—OF STONE IN THE KIDNEY AND URETER. Symptoms.—The symptoms of stone in the kidney are, pain in one or both loins ; irritation and retraction of the testicles ; the urine bloody after violent jolting, exercise ; and occasional fits of intlammar tion of the kidney. Stones in the kidney are most frequently com- posed of lithic acid, which will be known by the deposit of red sand from the urine. The mulberry calculus is more rare ; it may be sus- pected if the urine is free from sediment, either lithic or phosphatic, and if dark-coloured blood is frequently mixed with it. Crystals both of this substance and of lithic acid have been detected in the tubuli uriniferi. Phosphatic stone ^in the kidney is still more rare. Wlien it does exist, it is generally composed of the phosphate of lime, and indicates incipient disease of the organ. Treatment.—When a stone is ascertained or suspected to exist in the kidney, the indications are, first, to examine the general health, and treat any derangement according to the rules laid down in the previous sections; secondly, to endeavour to expedite the passage