DISSECTION WOUNDS. 154 injected, recovered on passing black and fetid evacuations.* The thirst must be quenched with lemonade, soda-water, and effervescing draughts ; beef-tea, broth, milk, and other forms of bland nourish- ment be liberally given ; wine, or brandy, or beer be administered in sufficient quantity to support the pulse ; and opium, to render the patient unconscious of his severe pain. The muriale of morphia proved so beneficial in Mr. Stafford’s hands, that it is to be preferred in similar cases. It should be given in a full dose (gr.ti—j) at bed- time, and in smaller ones during the day ; and if the bowels have first been properly opened, it will most probably allay the pain, calm the restlessness and anxiety, and reduce the frequency, whilst it improves the tone, of the pulse. It may be combined with small doses of calomel, or some other mercurial preparation. Local Treatment,—As soon as pain is first experienced in the axilla, numerous leeches should be applied, and their bleeding be encouraged by warm poppy fomentations, or poultices sprinkled with laudanum. But as soon as any distinct swelling can be detected, an incision should be made into it,—in order to relieve pain and tension, and to prevent the diffusion of serum or pus that may have been formed in the meshes of the cellular tissue. Incisions are the sine qua non of the treatment; the point on which success mainly depends ; and it is most truly observed by Mr. Stafford, that in most of the cases that have hitherto occurred, if swelling or abscess formed and were not opened, the result was fatal. If the patient survive, he should as soon as possible be removed into the country, and be put on a course of tonics and liberal diet. AH the collections of matter which sometimes continue to form for months should be opened as soon as they are detected ; and the ulcers that remain be dressed with stimulating lotions and bandages. Precautionary Measures.—We need scarcely comment on the expediency of using some precautions in performing post mortem exa- minations, especially if the operator be out of health, or if the patient have died of any disease of an erysipelatous character. Scratches on the fingers, and hangnails should be covered with adhesive plaster or collodion, or touched with the nitrate of silver to fonn an eschar, and the entire hands should be well smeared with lard. If the operator should puncture himself, or should suffer a scratch or abrasion to come in contact with the fluids of the subject, he should immediately wash his hands, and thoroughly suck the wound. Then the nitrate of silver should be applied to it, in order to decompose the poison and excite a slight inflammation, which will impede absorption. • Quoted in Ferguson on Pueriieral Fever, p. 54.