SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 193 2. The &rcavated ulcer looks as if a piece had been scooped out of the tonsil. Its surface is foul and yellow, its edges raised, and ragged, and swelled. There is remarkabl}^ little inconvenience from it, and very little constitutional affection, unless it be attended with eruption likewise. The patient has a peculiar guttural way of speaking, and often complains of pain in the ears. 3. The sloughing ulcer begins as a small aphthous spot, which rapidly ulcerates, and is attended with great pain and fever. The surface of the ulcer is covered with an ashy slough, and the surrounding mucous membrane is dark, livid, and swollen. The lingual artery may be opened by the spread of the ulceration, and the patient may die of haemorrhage, unless the common carotid is tied. Syphilitic Ulcerations of the nose and palate commence with ulcerations of the mucous membrane, similar to those of the throat, which may denude the periosteum, and then produce exfoliation of the bones, with profuse fetid discharge and odious deformity. Ulce- ration of the nose generally begins with a sense of heat, and dr}mess, and snuffling. Syphilitic ulceration of the larynx is mostly caused by an extension of ulceration from the palate. It is characterized by tenderness, great huskiness of voice (which frequently degenerates into a mere whis- per), suffocative cough, and expectoration of bloody purulent matter; there is great loss of flesh and strength, and life is often tenninated by suffocation. Syphilitic Disease of Bone most frequentl)' attacks the tibia, ulna, os frontis, clavicle, and other superficial bones. It commences with tenderness of the affected bone, and severe pain, which begins in the evening, and lasts almost all night, but ceases in the daj'time. The pain is shortly accompanied with oblong swellings, called nodes, arising from infiltration of the periosteum with lymph and serum. These swellings are rather tender; they communicate a doughy feel- ing, or obscure sense of fluctuation to the fingers, and the skin over them is at first pale and moveable. If the disease is arrested at this stage, it causes merely a superficial deposit of rough porous bone, from the organization of the lymph effused; or else a consolidation of the bone itself through the deposition of fresh osseous matter into its can- • celli. If the disease proceed one step further, a quantity of glairy serum is effused between the periosteum and bone, producing an ex- I quisitely painful fluctuating tumour. If it advance still further, the bone becomes carious; matter forms between it and the periosteum; 1 extensive exfoliations ensue ; the patient suffers severely from the I pain and discharge; and if the disease be seated on the head (in which situation it is called corona veneris), death may ensue from I irritation of the dura mater, or protrusion of the brain through I apertures in the skull. Such aggnivated cases are fortunately, 1 however, now very rare; although common enough when mercury was supposed to be the only means of stopping the ravages of the disease. o