OPERATIONS IN GENERAL. 5G7 sundry other delicate operations. Secondly', before commencing an in- cision, the skin must be gently stretched and steadied with the points of the fingers, otherwise it will be dragged along by the knife, and the incision will be ragged, and shorter than was intended. Thirdly, in cutting through the skin, the knife should be passed in at right angles to the surface, and should be at once carried down to the subcutaneous tissue—then the blade should be inclined downwards, and be made to cut through the skin to the requisite e.xtent, and lastly, as the inci- sion is finished, the instrument must be again brought to a right angle with the surface. By these means the whole thickness of the skin will be cleanl}'- divided, both at the beginning and end of the incision. Timid operators are apt to make the incision through the skin too limited, which embarrasses their subsequent proceedings ; besides that cutting more of the skin subsequently (unless the patient is under the influence of chloroform) is very painful. The author has not sufficient space to detail all the tedious varieties of incisions that are enumerated in sj'stematic treatises. It is of little use to say that they may be made by cutting from without inwards, or by first plunging in the instrument, and then cutting outwards (as in bleeding), or that they may be simple or compound—straight, curved, or angular. It may be noticed, however, that when two incisions are to be made to meet near their extremities (as, for example, the two semi-elliptical incisions in amputation of the breast), the second should fall into the first nearhjy but not quite at its extremity^ so that there may be no little isthmus of skin left undivided between them. Again, in making a V incision, the second cut should not be begun where the first terminated, but at its other end ; that is to say, it should be made toivards the first, and not from it. In making a T incision likewise, the transverse cut should be made first, and the other be directed towards it. Lastly, the angle of a V incision should, if possible, be always dependent. III. The Preparation of a patient for an operation is a most important element in its success. The object is to have every organ and every function in as healthy and tranquil a state as pos- sible. For the full-blooded and inflammatorj', bleeding may be requisite, and in all cases recourse should be had to regular diet, aperients, and gentle alteratives, with or without small doses of seda- tives, till the pulse has become quiet, the tongue clean, the bowels regular, the liver, kidneys, and skin in good order, and the mind cheerful. iMoreover, it is best not to perform an operation in very cold weather, if it can be avoided, especially upon the eye. It has also been recommended, and the recommendation seems rational, that the patient should be made to keep his bed for two or three days before an operation, in order that he may become accustomed to the confinement.* • Dr. Norm.m Cliovers, and Mr. T. Wilkinson King, liave .sliown that in most ciese.s of diaitli after operation.s, one of the great depurating organs of the blood—either the liver or kidneys—is diseased.