115 INCISED WOUNDS. to be. When all the pins have been introduced, and the parts are accurately adjusted, the middle of a long piece of silk is to be twisted around the uppennost, in the form of a figure of 8. Then the two ends are to be brought down and twisted round each of the other pins successively in like manner—and, lastly, are to be secured by a knot. _ , • i. The pins were formerly made of silver, with steel points, that were removed after they were inserted ; but the fine pins used by entomolo- gists for fixing insects, or fine steel needles with lancet points, are excellent substitutes. They are so small that they excite little irritation ; and a great number of them may be em- ployed, so as to insure as nice an adaptation as possible. But after they are inserted, their points must either be cut off, or else be guarded with a lump of wax, in order that they may do no mischief. 3. The Glover's or Continmus Suture is nothing more than the or- dinary way of sewing things together practised by seamstresses and housewives. It is employed in wounds of the intestines and abdo- minal parietes. 4. The Quilled Suture is performed by passing a sufficient number of ligatures, as in the interrupted suture. But instead of being tied to their opposite neighbours, all the threads on each side of the wound are fastened to a quill, or bougie, or roll of plaster. This suture is now nearly or quite obsolete ; it was formerly supposed to bo very advan- tageous in pressing the deep parts of a wound together. 5. The Dry Suture was made by sticking a strip of adhesive plaster, or (before that was invented) a strip of linen, smeared with white of egg and flour, to the skin on each side of the wound. The adjacent margins of the plaster or linen were then sewed together. (4) The fourth indication is to keep down inflammatioii ; that is, to prevent it from surpassing the degree necessary for adhesion. This is to be effected by opening the bowels, lowering the diet, enjoining rest, avoiding tight bandages and every other source of irritation and con- striction, and maintaining the injured part in as comfortable a state of feeling as possible ; which, as was before observed, is the surest means of preventing inflammation. If, however, much pain and swelling supervene, the water dressing, or a poultice, must be resorted to, and plasters, bandages, and sutures be abandoned till granulation com- mences. Then the parts may be again gently approximated, that they may heal by the second wtention ; that is, by the inosculation of their granulations. C.-i.sES OF COMPLETE DISUNION.—If any small portion of the body