3 PROSTRATION, OR COLLAPSE. First, those of organs that are necessary to life, as the stomach and brain; and it is well known that a severe concussion of either of these organs may e.Ktinguish life instantaneously. Secondly. Injuries of organs which do not easily admit of repara- tion ; as the joints. Thirdly. Injuries that are severe in their nature; as punctured, lacerated, contused, and especially gunshot, wounds. Fourthly. Injuries of great e.Ktent, especially of the skin, although they may be trivial in degree;—as extensive burns ; or injuries that cause very great pain. Severe pain, by itself, is capable ot e.xhaust- ing the vital powers. Lastly. Injuries occurring to young infants, or to the very aged; or to constitutions that are enfeebled by excess and intemperance,'' or by long-sUmding bodily disease, or mental depression. From this it will be learned that the slightest injiuy or surgical operation may prove fatal to persons who labour under chronic organic disease, such as tubercles in the liver or lungs, or disease of the kidneys ; or who have been harassed by continued anxiety and despondency of mind ; so that in almost any case a linn persuasion that recovery is impossible is almost sufficient to render it so. Treat.ment.—The indication is, to excite the vital organs to a moderate and healthy reaction. The remedies are, stimulants, of which hot brandy and water is the best ;—nourishment, such as beef-tea ; —and warmth, by means of blankets, and of heated bricks, or bottles of hot water put under the axilla; or between the thighs.— Vomit- ing ma}’’ be allaj-ed by a large dose of solid opium (gr. ii.) ; or by an opiate enema (vide Formula 101) sometimes by a turpentine blood to the brain and body, and consetiuent impairment of their functions. After death, the right side of the heart is found fvU of black blood, which it has been unable to propel through the densely congested lungs ; the left side par- tially full of black blood. When this mode of death is slow, as in croup, <Sic., the phenomena are, gi'eat dy.spno;a, with lividity of the countenance, and de- lirium arising from the circulation of venous blood in the head. The fourth is death by coma.—This is what occurs from such comnression of the brain as tells upon the medulla oblongata, and from poisoning by opium, and in other cases in which the functions of the brain are suspended. In these cases the immediate manner of dying is the same as in the last mode (viz. by aptum), but, whereas in the latter it is caused by inteiTuption to the access of air to the lungs, in these cases it arises from want of action in the respiratory mu.scle.s, which cease to receive the impulse to action, when the functions of the nervous system are destroyed. In cases of coma produced by ardent spirits, opium, and some other poisons, life may often be preserved if the respiration be kept up artificially, so as to keep the lungs and lieart at work and the blood aerated, till the stupefying etl'ects of the poison have itassod off. It must bo observed, in conclusion, that although pure and well marked instances of each fonn of death are often met with, yet that two or more are very frequently combined. Thus in phthisis, death is often the conjoint result of asthenia, of antemia, and of apneea. For an excellent account of this subject, see Dr. Watson's Lecturo.s, voL i. • Those who always live above par, says Hunter, are extremely liable to sink when attacked by disease or injury; for, as they are habitually at the full stretch of living, their powers cannot be excited further to meet any casual emergency. —On the Blood, chap. ii. sect. 1.