FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 254 followed by great deformity and non-union, because the upper fragment is tilted forwards. Treatment.—If the long splint does not suffice, the best plan is to place the patient on a fracture-bed, in a half-sitting posture, so as to relax the psoas and iliacus muscles. The accompanying figure shows the influence of the psoas and iliacusi in tilting the upper fragment forwards / and of the adductor muscles in drawings the lower fragment upwards and inwards. | (6.) Fracture of the shaft of the femur requires no observations as to its causes or symptoms. Treatment. — 1. The first apparatus that we shall notice is the long straight splint before described, whose advantages are, that it keeps the foot, knee, hip, and pelvis immovable. 2. A second plan is that of the cfoaWc inclined plane. It consists of two pieces like the letter A;—one for the thigh, the other for the leg, with a board to fasten the foot to. The whole limb must be ban- daged;—the thigh-piece must be made ac- curately to correspond to the distance be- tween the tuber ischii and the bend of the knee;—and then one splint is to be placed from the great trochanter to the outer con- dyle;—a second, from the ramus of the pubes to the inner condyle ; and a third on the anterior surface of the limb. Per- haps it is a good plan to apply a fourth splint, from the tuber ischii to the bend of the hnee, before placing the patient on the plane. Both legs should be bandaged. The disadvantage of this plan is, that the patient’s bottom sinks in the bed, and thus the upper fragment is tilted forwards. ^ 3. A third plan is that of Pott.* It consists in laying the pa- itient on the affected side, the thigh at right angles to the trunk, and the knee bent—with a many-tailed bandage and four splints, applied between the different points of bone that have just been mentioned. The disadvantages of this plan are, first, that the patient soon turns round on his back, dragging the upper fragment away from its right place ; and, secondly, that the pressure on the great trochanter may Clause sloughing. The first evil may be prevented simply by watching the patient, and telling him to turn round on his bellj' rather than on his back, if he wishes to shift his position. The second may be re- • Pott, Chimrgical Works, vol. i. p. 3C5.