57 ACUTE ABSCESS. tliemselves into nucleated cells (exudation corpuscles) whicli after a time break up, and are disintegrated, togetlier witli the tissue which tliev infiltrate ; and on examining tlie softened mass with the micro- scope, it is seen to consist of granules, either diflused or amalgamated in masses, or contained in nucleated cells, and mixed with the debris of the softened tissue.* SECTION II.—OF ACUTE ABSCESS. Definition An ahsccss may be defined to bo a collection of pus in the substance of any part, or in any cavity. There are two kinds ; 1. The acute or phlepmonous ; 2. The chronic or cold ; besides the dijf'ased aLccss, or diifuscd suppuration in the cellular tissue, of which we shall speak in the next’chapter. SvMPTO.Ms.—Acute abscess (which, when occurring in the subcuta- neous cellular tissue, is called phlepmon) commences with all the ordi- nary signs of acute inflammation; namely, inflammatory fever; severe throbbing pain; bright redness; and much swelling;—firm in the centre, and mdematous around. The occurrence oi suppuration is indi- cated by severe riyors, by an abatement of the fever, and a change in the pain,—which is converted into a sense of weight and tension, with I V'l pulsatorj- feel at each beat of the arteries. Then the tumour becomes softer, and loses its bright arterial colour; and as the quantity of matter increases, its centre begins to j)oint, that is, to project in a pj'ramidal form, and Jlucluution can be felt by alternate pressure with the fingers. PiiodBEss.—The pus having been formed, the next step is its eva- cuation, which is effected either by what Hunter called proyressive absorption; that is, the successive absorption of all the parts inter- vening between the abscess and the surface; or, just as probably, by their successive atrophy and disintegration. Be this, however, as it may, the tuniour becomes more and more prominent and soft; the sur- rounding inflammation and tumefaction subside; the centre becomes of a dusky red or bluish tint, the cutis is removed, the cuticle bursts, and the pus escapes. Although abscesses may burst into serous cavities, or mucous canals if they happen to be near, still their general course is that which is least prejudicial;—namelj', towards the skin. The cause of this happy provision has much engaged the attention of pathologists. The best * Sec Micro.scopicalJournal for Jan. 1843, and Bennett on Softening of the Brain, Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ., Doc. 1842. The foregoing cut represent-s the granules mixed with broken nerve-tubes; from a case of .softening of the brain. —Vide Copland, Diet. Bract. Med. Art. Abscess; E'erguson on Buerpend Fever, Bond. 1839; Ancell, case of purulent deposit into all the joints after small- pox ; Med. Cliir. T'nms. vol. xxi. The author ha.s also borrowed from a lecture on Bhlebitis delivered by Sir B. C. Brodic, at St. George’s Hospital, in Nov. 1839.—Vide .also Gruby on the Morphology of Bathological Fluids, tr.anslated by Dr. Goodfellow in the Microscopical Journal, vol. ii.; Gerber, Anatomy translated by Gulliver; Mayo and Gulliver in Med. Gaz. 1839-40, vol. i.; Paget's Lectures, Med. Gaz. 1849 and 1850.