GENERAL PHENOMENA OF INFLAMMATION, 34 one side of the membrane, and yet the serum and lymph are on the other.’"* If the lymph were merely effused mechanically from distended capillaries, it ought to be found where the capillaries are — in the subserous cellular tissue; its being found where it is, can only be accounted for on the theory we have been labouring to prove, viz., that it is attracted out of the capillaries by the cells on the free surface of the serous membrane. Microscopical Observations.—Many attempts have been made to ascertain the exact processes which take place in an inflamed part, by means of microscopical observations on the transparent membranes of animals such as the mesentery of the rabbit, and web of the frog’s foot, after inflammation had been excited in them by mechanical or chemical injuries ;—and many very erroneous theories have been built upon the results of these observations. But from some recent and most careful observations made by Mr. Paget on the web of the bat’s wing, we may gather the following particulars, which may be very rationally applied to explain some of the phenomena of disease. The primary effect of a slight stimulus applied to the blood-vessels, is a slight and temporary contraction, with a retardation of the current through them, followed by an expansion of the vessels and acceleration of their current. If the point of a fine needle be drawn across a minute artery and vein, three or four times, without injuring them, or the membrane covering them, they will both presently gradually contract and close. This contraction is no doubt analogous to the speedy closure of the innumerable small vessels divided in a wound, wliich are made to contract by the very stimulus of the instrument which has divided them. During this contraction, the blood moves more slowly, or perhaps does not move at all. But when tlie vessels dilate again, they acquire a larger size than they originally had, and the blood moves more freely and rapidly through them than it did before. And now the same stimulus that made them contract at first, has no effect, or a very transient one ; a more powerful stimulus, however, may make them again contract and close. On applying a more powerful irritant, such as a drop of tincture of capsicum, the preliminary contraction, if it occur at all, is so transient as to be hardly perceptible, but the phenomena of active congestion or determination of blood become instantly developed. The blood- vessels become rapidly dilated, lengthened, and tortuous ; sometimes even they display varicose or aneurismal excrescences; they are tensely filled with blood, containing a large excess of red globules, which is circulated with far greater velocity than is natural. But if the injury inflicted be of still greater severity, as a wound with a red-hot needle, then in addition to the preceding state of active congestion, there follows in the very focus of the morbid changes, a retardation, and at last, a complete stagnation of the blood in the * Vide Goodsir’s Anatomical and Pathological observations. Edinburgh, 1845.