SYNOVIAL ME3IBRANE. 2G3 other chronic diseases of joints. It is applied thus ; the surface of the joint, having first been washed with camphorated spirit, should be covered with the ointment thickly spread on lint; next, adhesive plaster should be evenly applied in strips, so as to form a complete casing for the joint; and lastly a bandage. When the knee is ban- daged ill this way, the adhesive straps should be arranged so as not to press too tightly on the patella. Supposing, after injlammation has subsided, the joint is left stiff,—the knee, for example, in a half-bent state—a process of very gradual extension may be set about by means of splints with a screw attached ; but the greatest care must be taken not to light up a fresh inflammation. III. Abscess in Joints.— 1 f, after acute or chronic inflammation, a joint becomes very much distended, and there is constant pain un- mitigated by remedies, and considerable constitutional excitement, suppuration of the synovial membrane may be fairly suspected. The first thing to be done under these circumstances is to make a puncture with a grooved needle, and examine the fluid that exudes. If it is serum, two or three more punctures may be made, and an exhausted cupping-glass be applied over them; and by these means the part may be very safely and expeditiously relieved of a considerable quantity of fluid. If it is pus, a free opening should be made in a depending position, so that the matter may run out easily; the joint should be placed on a splint in the most easj’’ and convenient posture : the general health should be amended by tonics, alteratives, and proper diet ; and then, in favourable cases, a cure will be ett'ected by anchylosis. But if the suppuration and constitutional disturbance increase, the limb must be amputated. Purulent depots in Joints.—It has been mentioned in several pre- vious chapters, that a rapid effusion of pus into the joints and other parts is a frequent occurrence in phlebitis, puerperal fever, erysipelas, dissection wounds, and other cases in which the blood is contaminated by a morbid poison. The part becomes red and painful, and very soon afterwards is found to be filled with pus. The only local treat- ment consists of a free incision in a depending position, and a splint, with a bandage to prevent accumulation of matter. IV. PuLTY DEGENEii.vnoN. — Under the influence probably of chronic inflammation, the synovial membrane (generally of the knee) sometimes is converted into a thick pulpy substance of a light brown or rcddisli brown colour, intersected by white membranous lines. This peculiar fungous growth gradually projects into the joint and causes ulceration ot the cartilages, caries of the bones, wasting of the ligaments, and abscesses in various places. Symptoms.—Gradually increasing stiffness and swelling of the joint, without pain; the swelling less regular than that of chronic inflamma- tion ; and not fluctuating, although so soft and elastic that it seems so to do. Treatment.—The progress of the disease may be retarded by rest and antiphlogistic measures ; but, after a longer or shorter duration of