CHLOROFORM. § Sibson, Med. Gaz., N.S. vol. vi. p. 276. <>614 mixed and distilled, so long as a dense liquid, which sinks in the water with which it comes over, is produced. It is rectified hy agitating it witli the strongest colourless sulphuric acid, which if it contain any impurities, such as the empyreumatic oils with which it is liable to be contaminated, at once destroys them by charring, and renders them manifest by the dark colour of the line where the chloroform and acid come into contact. It is poured off and agitated with fresh acid if necessary, then poured carefully off into a dry stoppered bottle, and shaken with some peroxyde of manganese, from which it may be de- canted, fit for use.* * * § Pure chloroform is a dense colourless liquid, having the specific gravity, when quite pure, of from 1'480 to 1‘5. It is exceedingly vola- tile, and boils at about 140°. It has an agreeable sweet fruity smell and taste, and if poured on a piece of blotting paper and evaporated, ought to leave no oily empyreumatic smell behind. By passing its vapour through a red hot tube, it is decomposed and hydrochloric acid is given off, which may be detected by means of paper moistened with solution of nitrate of silver. By such a process Ur. Snow has detected it in the bodies of kittens poisoned by a very minute quantity of it, and in the muscles of a child’s leg which had been amputated at St.George’s Hospital after inhalation of the vapour. Chloroform is almost incombustible, thus offering an advantageous contrast to ether, from the explosion of which, at least, one serious acci- dent has happened during its administration.+ Effects on the Animal Economy. —\t is convenient to divide the effects of the inhalation of chloroform into stages, or degrees as Ur. SnowJ more properly calls them. The first or slightest degree cor- responds with what is commonly known as slight intoxication. The mental faculties are excited, vision, perhaps, unsteady, and the gait staggering, but still there is perfect consciousness of all that is going on. In this degree, the severe pain of operations is still felt intensely; but that p;u't of suffering which depends on mentiil apprehension is relieved, “ the mind sometimes does not feel pain, simply because it is taken up with other things, just as a man in battle often does not feel a wound.” § The capillary circulation is greatly excited, and the whole surface, especially the face and conjunctiva:, become suffused with red. In the second degree there is no longer correct consciousness; the mental faculties are almost abolished ; the inhaler generalh' neither speaks nor moves, though it is possible for him to do both; and he is in the condition, as Ur. Snow remarks, which the law terms drunk and incapable. There is sometimes considerable unruliness, or vivid dreaming; the insensibility of pain is greater than in the first degree, but yet not enough for beginning a severe operation. This degree is, • Gregory, quoted in R.inking'.s Abstract, vol. xi. p. 231. t Vide Med. Gaz., 20th Sept. 1850. t bond. Med. Gaz. 1848.