ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 47 tissue, and the structure which, in nearly' all cases in man, constitutes the bond by which disunited parts are again joined.” But the" precise form of development which the fibrine under-) goes, depends in a great measure on the vital influences of the) parts it is effused amongst, and on the offices which it is called i upon to perform. Thus, if a bone be broken or inflamed, the fibrine J Qffused will be converted into bone. If a bone be killed, or a small portion of oiielie abstracted from one of the lower animals, the fibrine effused will still be converted into bone. If (as in the case of an unreduced dislocation, or ill-tre^ited fracture) the fibrine is subjected to frequent motion, part of it will be converted into bone, part into ligament, so as to form a new joint. When a nerve is divided, the lymph which unites the severed extremities, has nerve-tubules deve- loped in it, so as restore the channel of nervous communication as be- fore. But there are some structures which cannot be reproduced; such as muscle, which, if divided, is united merely by fibro-cellular tissue. The law which regulates the extent to which parts are capa^ ble of being reproduced after injury, is probably this, as stated by Mr. Paget. If any part is developed habitually by what he calls nutritive reproduction, in which (as in the case of the human teeth) one part gives off the germ out of which its successor is to be developed, then there can be no reproduction after injury; because, in removing any part, the germs or seeds of any future parts are removed with it. But when a part is formed by what he calls nutritive repetition, in which each succeeding part is simply developed after its predecessor, and not out of any germ furnished by it, then reproduction is possible. Thus, in the cuticle, the new layers are formed after, but not out of any genns left b}' their predecessors ;—and, “ when the whole cuticle of a part is removed, it may be again formed by repetition: but when a portion of muscle is removed, its germs are taken with it, and it is not repro- duced.” CoAGULABLE Lv.MPH is a soft yellowish- white elastic substance, with the appear- ance of which every one who has examined the huffy coat of inflammatory blood, must be familiar. Examined under the micro- scope, it displays thin transparent parallel fibrils, and various molecules, granules, and corpuscles. These two elements point to two different modes in which it proceeds in its development. (1) In the first mode the fibrine sets into a firm substance studded with nuclei, which gradually acquires first the appear- ance, and then the structure of fibres. (2) In the second mode, the fibrine develops itself through the medium of cells. The first step in this process is believed to be