87 MORTIFICATION. mortify, because it has not strength to support the inflammation which ensues; or, on the other hand, it may mortify slowly, and the morti- fication may spread slowly, without there being energy enough in the S3’stem to set up inflammation, which in its adhesive form is neces- sary to check the mortification and repair its ravages. ■ SECTION II.—OP THE VARIETIES, SYMPTOMS, AND TREATMENT. iNFL.ii'MMATORY MORTIFICATION.—Symptoms.—When inflamma- tion is about to terminate in mortification, its redness gradually assumes a darker tint, and becomes purple or blue;—the heat, sensibility, and pain diminish ; but the swelling often increases in consequence of the continued effusion of sanguinolent (or sometimes of a peculiarly'yellow) serum, which not unfrequently' exudes through the skin, and elevates the cuticle into blisters. If the yamjrene proceed to sjihacclus, the colour becomes dirty brown or black; the parts become soft, flaccid, and cold, and they crepitate when pressed, and emit a cadaverous odour from the gases that are evolved by incipient putrefaction. Whilst gangrene is spreading, the dark colour is ditfused, and insensibly lost in the surrounding skin ; but when its progress is arrested, a healthy circulation is re-established up to the veiy margin of the sphacelated portion, and a bright red line of adhesive inflammation (called the litie of demarcution) separates the living parts from the dead. And the appearance of this line is most important as a means of proynosis because it shows that the mischief has ceased, and that there is a dis- position to repair its ravages. Separution of the Afortified Part.—It is at this bright-red line of demarcation that the dead part is separated by' ulceration. A narrow white line, consisting of a narrow circular vesicle, and formed by a separation of the cuticle, first appears on it; and when this is broken, a chain of minute ulcers is seen under it. Those gradually' unite and form a chink, which widens and deepens till the slough is entirely de- tached ;—and then a granulating and suppurating surface remains. In this manner the whole of a mortified limb has been spontaneously amputated; —the bone and tendons separating higher up, and being more slowly' detached than the skin, muscles, and blood-vessels. M hen the tidhesive inflammation has duly occurred, this proce.ss of separation is unattended with luemorrhage,—the vessels being obliter- ated by' the efiusion of lymph, and coagulation of the blood within them. And this coagulation extends some distance from the mortified part, so that a limb has been amputated in the thigh for mortification of the leg, without the loss of any blood from the femoral artery. Sometimes, however, as in hospital gangrene, these vital processes ot adhesion are deficient, and the blood is found fluid in the vessels, so that the separation ot the slough is attended with severe hemor- rhage. N Constitutional Symptoms.—The constitutional symptoms of mortifica-