318 ACUTE PHLEBITIS. fomentations, or cold lotions, according to the patient’s choice; and purgatives ; subsequently, friction with camphorated oil, and other mild liniments, and bandages. III. Acute Phlebitis, with a poisoned condition of the blood, is a most dangerous, and generally a fatal disease. It is a frequent con- comitant of malignant puerperal fever, phlegmonous erysipelas, and diffused cellular inflammation ; with which diseases it appears to be identical in its type, and in the form of constitutional affection which attends it. Symptoms.—The symptoms are, repeated shiverings, or perhaps fainting fits ; rapidity of the pulse, anxiety of the countenance, de- pression of spirits, catching pains about the heart, and more or less swelling and tenderness over the com-se of the affected veins ; the tongue soon becomes furred, brown and dry, or black ; the pulse ex- ceedingly rapid and weak ; the prostration of strength and spirits extreme ; and the skin and conjunctivm sallow. The precise order of symptoms and modes of termination are various. In some cases the patient speedily sinks, without any well-developed local symp- toms. In others, the leading feature is a most profuse vomiting and purging of fetid yellow bile, which is generally doubtless a salutary effort of nature to relieve the veins of poisonous matter. In other cases, rapid and incurable inflammations of the contents of the head or of the thorax, or abdomen supervene—marked respectively bj' de- lirium or coma ; by difficulty of breathing, cough, and dulness on per- cussion of the chest; or b}’’ incessant green or black vomit, with great pain and abdominal tenderness. In other cases, great swelbng and redness occur over the inflamed veins, and abscesses form, which, if punctured, are found to contain clots of blood mixed with pus. Another most characteristic termination of this disease is the forma- tion of consemdive or secondary abscesses. The patient remains low, with an anxious sallow countenance, rapid pulse, and yellow tongue ; and suddenly complains of excruciating pain in the shoulder, knee, or some other joint, which is rapidly succeeded by a copious formation of pus ; and this abscess is followed by others in the other joints, or in the lungs or liver, which ultimately cause death. Morbid Appearances.—At an early period of the disease, the lining membrane of the affected vein is found deeply red, and a little lymph is effused at the seat of injury. Subsequently, the vein is plugged with coagulated blood and lymph, mLxed either with real pus, or with a pus-like fluid formed of softened coagulum. In cases which do not terminate very early, some portion of the vein is formed into an abscess, by the effusion of lymph above and below the inflamed part; and this abscess soon communicates with the cellular tissue by ulcer- ation. Secondary Abscesses.—There is no tissue or part of the body which may not be the seat of inflammation and abscess, in this disease. M'hen the lungs are affected, the earliest morbid appeamnce is a small well defined ecchymosed spot, of very dark colour, which soon is sur-