•218 DISEASES OF THE BONES. SECTION IV.—OF THE INFLAMMATORY DISEASES OF BONE. yk I. Inflammation produces in bone the same changes that it does in the soft parts. In its slighter degrees it causes swelling from en- largement of the channels which contain the blood-vessels, and from an opening out and greater porosity of the texture, which is its earliest effect. This may be followed, in protracted chronic inflamma- tions, by the filling up of the expanded channels of the enlarged bone, so that instead of being enlarged and porous, it is enlarged and denser than natural. Severer degrees of inflammation may cause suppuration, softening, ulceration, and mortification. II. Acute Inflammation of bone most frequently attacks the femur or tibia in children, and is usually attributed to cold. It fre- quently affects more than one bone, but is generally confined to the shafts, and does not often involve the articular extremities. Symptoms.—The patient is seized with violent shivering and fever, and with deep-seated severe pain, and great swelling of the affected limb, the skin of which displays a kind of erysipelatous redness. Matter soon forms, burrows among the muscles, and at last points in several places. Sometimes the patient is destroyed by the violence of the constitutional derangement, or sinks under the profuse suppura- tion that follows; but more frequently life is preserved, and the bone left in a state of 7iecrosis. On examination of cases that have proved fatal, or that have been subjected to amputation, the shaft of the bone is generally found separated from the epiphyses, and partially or entirely separated from its periosteum; and patches of newly formed bone are deposited upon its surface, and between the layers of the periosteum. Diffused Abscess. — In some instances the medullary tube and cancelli of the bone are found filled with pus. This is apt to happen after amputation and compound fracture, and to be accompanied with phlebitis and pyohaemia. Sometimes, however, it is induced by cold or bruises, without a wound. It may be suspected when an entire bone is necrosed, including its articular extremities, which usually escape in common inflammation, although the shaft perishes. Treatment.—Aperient and febrifuge medicines, calomel and opium, with leeches and fomentation, should be assiduously employed at first. As soon as fluctuation can be detected an3'where, an opening should be made; and it is better to do so too soon than too late. When a free exit is provided for the matter, a bandage should be applied to prevent its accumulation. If the patient seem likely to sink, in spite of tonics and nutriment, from the extreme discharge, the affected limb must be amputated. III. Chronic Inflammation of bone is most frequently the result of some constitutional disorder, and generally attacks several bones simultaneous!}". It is denoted bj' slow enlargement, tenderness,