6 INFLAMMATORY FEVER. back, lassitude, muscular weakness, mental torpor, and confusion of the senses. Chilliness and burning heat testify to disorder of the process by which animal heat is produced or regulated. Respiration and circulation are either slow’ and embarrassed, or performed w’ith preternatural frequeney and force. Digestion and nutrition are sus- pended, hence the rapid emaciation. The secretions are either defi- cient, or, if abundant, are depraved ; hence the thirst, dry skin, scanty urine, and costiveness or diarrhoea. Moreover, the fluids have a tendencj’ to be vitiated, and the solids to be diseased, as shown by the tendency to congestion and effusion in the great cavities. Fevers are often divided into two grand families; the idiopathic and the symp>iomatic. The former arise from agents operating on the blood or nervous system: ague and typhus are examples. The latter are called symptomatic, because produced by disease or injury of some part. It is with these that the surgeon has to deal; and there are the follow’ing varieties, which w’e shall treat of successively: (1.) If there be violent inflammation in a healthy system, the fever will be injlammatory, which is commonly called symptomatic fever. (2.) If there be acute inflammation in a weakened or cachectic sys- tem,—or if the inflammation arise from certain specific causes of a depressing tendency, such as morbid poisons,—or if it attack certain structures, as the veins ;—the fever is generally called irritative. (3.) If the inflammation have terminated in an e.xhausting suppura- tion, or if there be a permanent disease, w'hich the constitution has no power to vanquish, hectic fever will be established. (4.) When the vital pow'ers are entirel}’ exhausted the fever assumes what is called a typhoid •, which, in the emphatic language of Hunter, is termed dissolution. (5.) Lastly, fever, even when arising from a local cause that is permanent, may be intermittent ; that is, may occur in definite paroxysms, with intervals of health, like ague fits. This is often the case in diseases of the urinary organs, such as strictures and fistulae in perinmo : and sometimes in worms and other states of irritation of the intestines. SECTION II.—OF INFLA.MMATORY FEVER. SvN.—Synocha, Cullen. General Description.—This fever accompanies every acute in- flammation which arises from a severe or considerable injury, or which affects parts of great sensibility and importance in healthy subjects. And it is almost a natural concomitant. “ Nature,” says Hunter, “ requires to feel the injury ; for wdiere after a considerable operation there is rather a w’cak, quiet pulse, often with a nervous oppression, W’ith a seeming difficulty of breathing and loathing of food, the patient is in a dangerous waj'. Fever shows pow’ers of resistance ; the other symptoms show weakness, sinking under the injury.”* * On the Blood. Chap. iv. sect. 6. Vincent, op. cit. p. 104.