439 CESOPHAGOTOilT. ing, and fits of suffocative cough. This accident, if unrelieved, may prove fatal in two manners. The patient may either be suffocated at once, by spasm of the glottis ; or, if the foreign substance remains impacted, it may produce a fatal ulceration of the parts, attended with e.xhausting cough and dyspncea, and profuse fetid expectoration. Treatment.—The patient should be seated in a chair, with the head thrown back, and the mouth wide open. The surgeon should then introduce his finger—regardless of attempts to vomit—and should pass it swiftly into the pharynx, and search the whole of it thoroughly. When the substance is felt, it may perhaps be entangled in the point of the nail, or curved forceps may be guided to it by the finger. Pins or fish-bones are often entangled about the velum, or in the folds of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and tongue. If the body has passed into the oesophagus, and it is small and sharp (a fish-bone for instance), it may be got rid of by making the patient swallow a good mouthful of bread. If large and soft (as a lump of meat), it may be pushed down into the stomach with the probang. But large hard bodies, especially if rough and angulai', (such as pieces of bone or glass, &c.) shoidd be brought up if possible. A pair of long curved forceps, or a piece of whalebone armed with a flat blunt hook, or with a skein of thread, so as to form an infinite number of nooses, are convenient instruments. If the stomach is full, a dose of tartar emetic dissolved in a very small quantity of water may be administered, in the hope that when the contents of the stomach are vomited, they may bring up the offending substance with them. One case is on record in which a chicken bone lodging in the oesophagus was dissolved by making the patient swallow large quanti- ties of dilute acid. If all means fail, however, and the substance can neither be brought up nor down, and if it be lodged in the cervical portion of the tube, it must be extracted by the operation of oesopha- gotomy in the following manner. IX. OEsophagotomy. — This operation should be perfonned on the side towards which the foreign substance projects. Its situation having been ascertained, an incision of sufficient length must be made through the skin and platysma between the sternomastoid muscle and trachea. The cervical fascia must next be divided on a director. The surgeon must then divide the cellular membrane with a blunt knife, or lacerate it with his fingers, avoiding the carotid and thyroid arteries and the recurrent nerve. A common silver catheter may then be piissed down the throat, and be made to project in the wound, so that the oesophagus may be opened by cutting on it. This small wound in the cesophagns should be dilated with forceps, in order to avoid luemorrhage, and the foreign body should then be extracted. This operation has occasionally been performed for the purpose of conveying food into the stomach in cases of stricture of the ccsophagus, but with no very satisfactory results.* * Vide Arnott on CEsopliagotomy, Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xx.; Report of a