SCROFULA. 97 scrofulous as tlie\' arc to ever}- one else ; and if the patient be pre- cluded from taking exercise, friction is indispensable. Cold sexi-bathivg is in general so advantageous, that it has been deemed a specific. An aperient dose should be given before commencing it, if the habit be gross ; and it is a good plan to use a tepid bath or two (90°—80°) first. The object in using the cold bath is to produce a vigorous re- aclioti ; consequently, before taking it, the nervous and circulating systems should Ije in some degree of excitement, and the skin should be warm, altliough not perspiring. At all events the person who bathes should not bo exhausted by fatigue, nor in a cooling con- dition from perspiration. If the bather be strong, he may plunge into the open sea early in the morning on an empty stomach, not only with impunity, but with advantage ; but the forenoon is the best time for a weakly child, when the air is become warm, and the system is invigorated with a breakfast. Bathing will be injurious if a short immersion renders the surface cold, numb, and pinched. In many cases, especially of scrofulous ulcers, 7-iver bathing will be found more efficacious. It may not be amiss to observe, that the washing which is intended to get rid of dirt, is best done with warm water at night; in the morning a hast}- sousing with cold water serves to wake the patient up and refresh him. MEnicix'AL Theat.ment.—The medicines of use in scrofula are, first, a/Tcrients, to restore and maintain a proper action of the liver and bowels ;—secondly, antacids ;—and, thirdly, medicines capable of promoting digestion, and rendering the flesh and blood more sound iind healthy. (1.) If at any time the bowels are much confined, or if there is a state of feverish nes.s, or if there is any scrofulous disease going on that is attended with pain and inflammation, it will be advisable to give an active dose of calomel with jalap, or scammony. And the bowels should bo kept always regular by some mild aperient, such as rhubarb, magnesia, or castor oil ; with a little aloes, blue-pill, or hyd. c. creta occasionally, F. 85, if the stools are not properly tinged with bile. (2.) Alhalis are of groat service in scrofula, not only by neutralising acrid secretions in the stomach and bowels, l)ut (as we may suppose) by altering the constitution of the blood. . They are especially indi- cated if the patient complains of heartburn or great thirst, or if the tongue is very red, or if there is a sinking and craving for food soon after meals. Carmichael * recommends a combination of chalk and sesquicjirbonate of soda (gr. x. of the former, gr. v. of the latter) thrice a day after meals: F. 77 will answer the same purpose. The liq. potassiB is more useful for adults. The urine should not be allow- ed to become alkaline. (.3.) Before reviewing the remedies that come under our third head, we must warn our junior readers not to be too credulous when they hear of a new specific. Scrofula is an imperfect condition of bodily • Essay on Scrofula, Loud. 1810. It