ANCHYLOSIS. 272 inextensible, and very probably dislocating the joint, by their continued traction. This form of anchylosis is very common after synovitis. Treatment.—Daily vigorous friction with stimulating liniments over the extensor muscles; vapour baths, or the local steam bath—sham- pooing—and passive motion—that is to say, the joint to be everj’^ day bent and extended with a gentle degree of force, not sufficient to cause much pain. If one or more rigid muscles seem to be the main obstacles, their tendons may be divided, by subcutaneous section. 2. Ligamentous anchylosis signifies the union of two articular surfaces by ligament, and is an occasional consequence of compound dislocation, and of ulceration of cartilage. It admits of only very gentle treatment by passive motion, especially if it follow disease, and by gentle endeavours to straighten the joint, if necessary, with a screw. ,S. Bony anchylosis is produced when the lymph that is effused after destruction of cartilage ossifies. It is incurable, except by sawing through the bone, or cutting out a wedge-shaped portion, and of course this is so serious an operation, that it must not be under- taken inconsiderately. • This cut shows the results of long-continued disease of the ankle joint. The bones are coinpleteiy weUled together by bony anchylosis. t Vide American .lour. Med. Sc., July, 1842, and a case by Dr. Buck, Ban- king’s Abstract, vol. iii. For further information consult Liston and Fergusson. then employing frequent motion so as to prevent the consolidation of a callus and to establish a false joint. This operation was succes- fully performed by Dr. Rhea Barton, of Philadelphia, on the hip, in 1827, and on the knee in 1838. It was also successfully performed by Dr. Gibson, of Philadel- phia, in a case of complete anchylosis of the knee, with not a vestige of ligament, cartilage, or synovial mem- brane remaining. Having laid bare the front of the joint by a V incision above the patella, he sawed out a wedge-shaped portion of the bone, and gently' bent the rest so as not to endanger the popliteal vessels.+ But