BRONCHOCEIiE. 449 pregnated with calcareous or earthy particles, to which the inha- bitants of all those places are more or less habituated, although not perhaps the invariable cause, is the most probable that can be assigned.* In England it most frequently affects females about the age of puberty, and in many cases is obviously connected with uterine derangement. Patients so often refer its origin to some twist or strain of the neck, that there is some reason for believing that such an accident may be an exciting cause. There are some persons who alwaj’s have more or less enlargement of the thyroid gland, and who invariably find it increase in bulk when their health is out of order, or their strength lowered. Treatment.—The best remedy for this disease is iodine. The dose should not be large enough to cause pain or disorder of the stomach, or any diminution of the general health. The tincture of pure iodine is objectionable, because it is not miscible with water, and is apt to cause pain in the side. But the iodine should be combined with an alkali, or with the iodide of potassium, or with iron ; and an aromatic or a little hyoscyamus often makes it sit more lightly on the stomach. (F. 88.) Before administering the iodine, however, it is useful, if the complaint is of recent origin, to apply leeches, and purge the patient freely. An ointment or liniment of iodine, or of the iodide of potassium, may also be rubbed into the tumour ; but it must be re- membered that the swelling generally enlarges, instead of decreasing, if the skin be irritated. The patient, if possible, should remove from a district in which the maladj' is prevalent, and should drink boiled or distilled water. A residence on the coast, and warm sea-bathing, are mostly advantageous. If the iodine does not succeed, the burnt sponge, in doses of 3ft. ter die, is the best substitute. Any disorder in the digestive or uterine organs should be carefully removed. Pills composed of aloes, soap, and asafoetida (au gr. ii.—iii.) may be given at bedtime with advantage. Other remedies which were in vogue before the discovery of iodine, and which may be resorted to if that fails, are as follows ; mercury, iron ; potass and soda ; chlorides of barium and calcium ; digitalis, hyoscyamus, and belladonna; and sea-water. If medicines prove ineffectual, and the tumour enlarges rapidly, so as to threaten suffocation or apoplexy, surgical operations must be resorted to. There are three which have been proposed and prac- tised :—viz. the introduction of setons ; ligature of the arteries which supply the gland; and extirpation. The general results of these operations maybe stated thus; All three of them have at different times succeeded ; all of them are hazardous to life, and have proved fatal; and the first two have, in some instances, failed to remove the disease, although the patient has recovered with his life. • Capt. Alexander Gerard, in his account of Korrawur in tlie Himmalayas says, that “although the Korrawurrees can get nothing but .snow for sonio months in the year, they are not so subject to goitres as the j)eopie that live in the damp grounds in the forest at the foot of the hills, where there can never be any snow water." G G