353 INJURIES OP TUE EVE. trization, with the distortion, entropion, or ectropion, that may be the result of it. A linen rag wetted with cold water should then be laid on the part,—inflammation should be counteracted, and the patient be kept at rest till the wounds are healed. Wounds of the forehead, but more especially of the eyebrow, and of th^ margin of the orbit, even though the globe of the eye has not been struck, are occasionally followed by amaurosis, owing doubtless to concussion of the retina. The same result is sometimes supposed to follow injuries involving the frontal nerve. II. Blows on the eye are generally followed by a disreputable looking ecchymosis, which is inconvenient enough. But sometimes a blow on the naked eyeball, even when so slight as to leave no trace of injur}', causes permanent blindness from concussion of the retina. Antiphlogistic measures are the only resource. Bloo^ cjf'ased into the chambers is generally absorbed in the course of a Tortnight, if inflammation be kept down. If coagulated firmly, it will take much longer. ITT. Foreiu.n Bodies. When a patient complains of a foreign body in the eye, the surgeon should first examine the inside of the. lower eyelid and lower part of the globe, by everting the lid, and tell- ing the patient to look up. If nothing is discovered there, the patient should turn the eye downwards, so as to expose the upper part of the globe, and the surgeon should turn the upper eyelid inside out, which may easily be done by taking the eyelashes between the finger and thumb, and turning the lid upwards over a probe. If any substance stick in the cornea, so that it cannot be removed by a probe, or silver tooth- pick, or fine forceps, the point of a cataract needle or lancet should be carefully passed under it so as to lift it out. A still more effective instrument is a sort of delicate scoop ; for foreign bodies when sharp and angular, and particles of hot iron often become so imbedded in the cornea, that they must be scooped out. Perfect rest to the eyes should be enjoined, and every other means be taken to obviate inflam- mation. To remove particles of lime or mortar, the lids should be everted and the eye be well syringed or sponged with w6ak vinegar and water, or with oil, or with pure water if neither be at haml. Mr. Bowman finds a drop of castor oil the most soothing application in these very painful cases in which the epithelium has been scratched or roughly stripped off from the surface of the cornea.* IV. PuoL.vpSE OP 'rHE Iris, in consequence of penetrating wounds of the cornea, may be attempted to be reduced (provided the pupillary margin is not prolapsed) by closing the eye, and very gently rubbing the lid against the cornea, so as to press on the prolapsed portion, and afterwards by exposing it to a strong light, so as to cause the pupil to contract. Unless the reduction can be attempted immediately after the prolapsus, all chance of returning it is lost, because it soon becomes * i.ectures on the parts concerned in Operations on tlio Kye, &c. Loud. 184i). p. 120. A A