05 CHAPTER XII. OF MORTIFICATION. SECTION I.—OP THE PATHOLOGY OF MORTIFICATION. Definition.—Mortification signifies the death of any part of the body, in consequence of disease or injury. Varieties.—Some persons use the terms moiiification, (jangrene, and sphacelus, indiscriminately; but it is better to signify by sphacelus, an utter and irrecoverable loss of life, and to restrict the term gan- grene to the state which precedes, and commonlj' (but not inevitably) tenuinates in sphacelus; and in which perhaps the part may still be supposed to be capable of recovery. Another distinction is made between humid and dry gangrene. The humid is a consequence of inflammation, or of obstacle to the re- turn of the venous blood; and the mortified part, being loaded with fluid effusions, soon undergoes decomposition : whilst the dry gangrene is generally a consequence of deficient supply of blood, or of constitu- tional causes, and is either preceded by no inflammation at all, or by one so rapid that there is no time for interstitial effusions to occur, so that the mortified part becomes dry and hard. In the humid it is called a slough, in the dry gangrene an eschar. Another and a most important division is into constitidional and local. constitutional mortification is meant that which primarily originates in constitutional disorder; or that which, having begun from a local injury, is propagated and maintained by constitutional disorder. By local mortification is understood that which has origi- nated in local injury, and by which the system is not implicated, and with which it docs not sympathize in a violent or dangerous degree.* Causes.—The local predisposing causes, are the same as those of ulceration; namely, congestion, deficient arterial circulation, and structural weakness. The constitutional causes of mortification are,—debility from old age, poverty, starvation, hoemorrhage, scurvy, or long-continued disease of anj' kind;+ disease of the heart with contraction of the aortic orifice, so as to impede the arterial circulation; a peculiar state of the blood causing it to coagulate,^ and the peculiar state induced by the use of diseased grain, especially by the ergot of rye. These causes are in * Thompson’s Lectures on Innammation ; Guthrie, G. J., F.R.S. A Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds, p. 11G, 3rd ed. Lond. 1827. t Sir li. C. Brodie, in his Leeturo.s on Mortification, Med. Gaz. vol. xxvii., gives the ca.se of a man wlio caused tiimself to bo largely bled when intoxicated, and the next day one of his feet mortified as high aslliu instep. t Vide ciise of spontaneous gangrene, by Ur. Fuller, Med. Gaz., N. S., vol. v. p. 2-14.