46» REDOCIBX,E HERNIA. diminishes in thickness whilst increasing in capacity; sometimes, on the contrary, it becomes thick, indurated, and divisible into layers. Its ytcck (the narrow part which communicates with the abdomen) always becomes thickened, rigid, and more or less puckered, in con- sequence of the pressure of the muscular or ligamentous fibres which surround it. Sometimes the sac has two constricted portions, or necks —either because (as in oblique inguinal hernia) it passes through two tendinous apertures—(thq^external and internal abdominal rings)—or because the original neck has been pushed down by a fresh protrusion. Some hernia;, however, are destitute of a sac, or at least of ft. complete one. This may happen,— 1. If the protruded viscus is not naturally covered by peritonEeum; as the coecum. 2. If the hernia occur in consequence of a penetrating wound. 3. In some cases of congenital umbilical hernia. 4. Hernia may be considered virtually without a sac, if the sac has been biust by a blow, or if it has become entirely adherent to its contents. Instances, again, are known in which two peritoneal sacs have protruded through one and the same aperture in the abdominal parietes; and in which one sac, has come down within a previously existing one. Division.—Hernia is divided into several species; 1st, according to its situation—as the inguinal, femoral, and so forth ; 2ndly, according to the condition of the protruded viscera ; which may ' e (a) reducible, or returnable into the abdomen ; (6) irreducible, that is, not returnable into the abdomen ; or (c) strangulated ; that is, subject to some con- striction which not only prevents their return into the abdomen, but also interferes with the passage of their contents, !ind with their circu- lation. SECTION II. OP THE REDUCIBLE HERNIA. Sgmptoms.—A soft compressible swelling appears at some part of the abdominal parietes. It increases in size when the patient stands up ; if grasped, it is found to dilate when he coughs or makes .any exertion ; and it diminishes or disappears when he lies down, or when properly directed pressure is made upon it. If the sac contains intes- tine (entero-cele), the tumour is smooth, rounded, and elastic ; bor- borygmi (or flatulent croakings) are occasionally heard in it, and when pressed upon, the bowel returns into the abdomen with a sudden jerk and gurglinV.j^oise. If, however, it contains omentum {epiplo-cde), the tumour is Battened, inelastic, flabby, and unequal to the touch, and when pressed, it returns without noise, and very slowly, the pressure requiring to be continued till it has nearly‘^.'?lsappeared. But very often one hemi.al sac contains both intestine and omentum {entcro- epiplo-celc) ; and very frequently it is perfectly impossible to ascertain which it contains, by any external examination.* * From ktjAt), tumour; ei/repov, intestinum; and ininXoov, omentum. The word KTiXri is frequently used in the older surgical terminology; ox. gr. hydrocele, a tumour containing water: hcemalocele, a tumour containing blood ; buboaoede, a hernial tumour in the groin.