DISLOCATION OP THE JAW. 279 tion. The patient should be engaged in conversation during the pro- cess, in order to take off his attention from the muscles whose force it is wished to counteract. If there is great muscular rigidity, it may be overcome by chloroform, which is much to be preferred to the bleeding, the half-grain doses of tartar emetic, and the hot bath, that were formerly prescribed. Compound Dislocation is a dangerous accident, because of the acute synovial inflammation, rapid ulceration of cartilage, and violent constitutional disturbance, with which it is liable to be followed. The necessity of amputation will depend on precisely the same contingencies as in compound fracture: — old age ; bad constitution ; shattering of the bone ; extensive bruising or laceration of the integuments, so that the wound cannot be closed ; laceration of large blood-vessels: or if it be the knee-joint, if the limb is to be saved, the dislocation must be reduced; if the end of the bone protrude through the skin, and render reduction difficult, it must be sawed off, or the aperture must be slightly dilated ; the,wound must then be closed, and covered with a piece of lint dipped in blood ; and the case be treated as a wounded joint. Dislocation and Fracture.—Supposing the femiu-or humerus to be dislocated, and fractured also. Sir A. Cooper directs the fractured part to be first well secured in splints and bandages, and then the dis- location to be reduced without delay. Because, if the dislocation is not attended to till after the fracture has united, the difficulty of reducing it will be very much increased through the lapse of time ; and, perhaps, the bone may be broken again during the forcible ex- tension that will be necessary. Congenital Dislocation is the result of original want of de- velopment, or of intra-uterine disease, and is mostly incurable. section X.—of particular dislocations. I. Dislocation of the Jaw may be caused by a blow on the chin, when the mouth is wide open, or by spasm of the pterygoid muscles, by which the articular condyles are drawn over the trans- verse root of the zygomatic process. Syinjitoms.—The mouth fixedly open, the patient unable to shut it; speech and deglutition almost impossible ; saliva dribbling away ; the chin protruding forwards ; and the condyle felt to project un- naturally under the zygomatic process, whilst the finger sinks into the parotid space. If one side only is dislocated, the chin will be turned towards the opposite. Treaiment.—The surgeon should first fi.x the head carefully against a wall, or high chair ; next wrap a napkin around his thumbs, and place them at the roots of the coronoid processes behind the molar teeth ; then he should press them downwards and backwards, ele- vating the chin at the same time with his fingers. Or he may place