83 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. at the end of sixteen or twentj' hours ; and then, if the patient be free from pain, and the ulcer licalthy and florid, it is to be treated with common stimulating dressings ;—such as cerat. calaminm, or solution of argcnti nitras;—or a cerate of turpentine, which may be melted and poured in warm.” If, however, there be any recurrence of pain, or the least reappearance of the disease, the acid is again and again to bo applied till a healthy action is restored. As for the general treatment;—if the constitution is not affected, opium may be given to alia}' the pain caused by tlie disease, and by the application of the escharotic ; the bowels should be opened, and the diet regulated so as to support the strength without exciting feverishness. But if the disease, as observed by Ilonnon, begin with fever of an inflammatory type, and the patient be robust, and the local inflamma- tion intense, a moderate blood-letting may be perfoimed with advan- tage ; with an emetic, purgatives, and the antiphlogistic regimen generally. ^lercury is for the most part highly pernicious.* If, however, the constitutional affection assume a low or typhoid typo, either from the beginning or subsequently, the principal depend- ence is to be placed on opiates, tonics, and wine, in order to allay irrita- tion and support the strength, keeping open the bowels by cordial laxatives, if there be much diarrhoea, bark will be hurtful. Prevention.—W'e may refer to the remai’ks on the prevention of erysipelas, at p. 63. XI.—Malignant Pustule (Charbon) is a contagious and very fatal disease common in France, but almost unknown in England. It commences as a little dark red spot, with a stinging or pricking pain, on which there soon appears a pustule or vesicle seated on a hard in- flamed base. When this is opened, it is found to contain a slough, black as charcoal; and the sloughing rapidly spreads, involving skin and cellular tissue, and sometimes the muscles beneath. The Recount given of this malady by the continental writers is e.x- ceedingly confused; but it appears certain, that it is caused by infec- tion or contagion from horned cattle, which at certain seasons are affected with a precisely similar disease; and it further appears that, like hospital gangrene, it may commence in two ways ;— 1 st. By general infection of the system, from respiring air loaded with miasmata from diseased animals; or from eating their flesh. In this case it commences with constitutional symptoms; and it is this form which is more particularly styled churhon. 2ndlj'. By inoculation of the diseased fluids ; and in this case the local symptoms begin before the constitutional. Mr. Lawrence gives an account of a man in Leadenhall Market, who accidentally smeared his face with some stinking hides from South America. The part touched by the putrid matter very soon became red, and swelled, and ♦ Babington says, that it may bo employed with advantage, if the surround- ing inflammation be vivid and intense. On Sloughing Sores, Lend: Med. Jour, vol. Ivii. p. 204, and vol. Iviii. p. 288.