SCROFULOUS DISEASES. 99 Fish-oil, of which the nicest variety is the cod's liver oil, is an,ad- mirable remedy for increasing nutrition. It should be given in as large doses as the stomach can bear; beginning with a teaspoonful. Many patients can retain it in their stomaclis if they swallow it just before lying down in bed ; and lemonade, or ginger wine, are very nice vehicles.* The sulphates of zinc (F. 6) and of copper in small doses are some- times serviceable as tonics. The chlorides of calcium onA. barium were formerly much praised, but seem to have fallen into merited oblivion. A decoction or extract of laalnut leaves has been used by Dr. Negrier of Angers, both internally and externally. Common salt, especially in the form of sea-water, has also been boasted as a specific. Pain, when violent, must be relieved by opium or other anodynes; and the extracts of conium and aconite in regular doses thrice a day, are often of great service wlien there are intractable ulcers. The aconite requires caution in its use. We may add, that F. 65, 20, 87, 43, 12, are combinations of various tonics, aperients, antacids, and alteratives, which will occasionally be found serviceable: that of all medicines, steel is the most important, since it is an ingredient in healthy red blood, and that it ought to be continued daily in small regular doses for two or three years, with occasional intermissions of a week; but tliat wholesome food, pure air, and warm clothing are more important than any medicines. PARTICULAR SCROFULOUS DISEASE.S. I. Of the Skin. — Scrofulous children are extremely subject to eruptions of small flat pustules about the ears and mouth and other parts, with extensive excoriations of the skin, and exudation of thin acrid matter which dries into scabs. These eruptions are generally contagious. Treatment.—The general health must be attended to, according to the foregoing rules; and the local disease be treated by the frequent use of soap and water, and the application of the ointments of oxyde of zinc, of white and red precipitates or nitrate of mercury, or of lead. This description and treatment may include almost all the multifarious forms of impetigo and porrigo. II. Chronic Scrofui.ou.s Abscesses (besides those which are caused by diseased glands or bone) may occur under three forms. 1st. They may commence imperceptibly in the cellular tissue. 2ndly. A circular piece of skin, of the size of a shilling or half-crown, with the tissue immediately beneath, may slowly inflame and swell, form- • The oil should be pale, and procured from fresh, plump livers at a low heat; tlie dark-coloured rank oil is not so good. See some ob.servations by Dr. TauHlied, Lond. Med. Gaz., Keb. 28, 1840 ; and an excellent paper by Mr. Donovan in the Dub. .Tour. Med. Sc., Sept. 1845 ; a letter by the Author m Lond. Med. Gaz., Nov. 9, 1849 ; and the Pharmaceutical Journal, ijussim.