172 GONOKRH(EA. Guthrie, and Hennen, will enable the reader to form a juster estimate of its capabilities. It is concluded, (1) That all kinds of primary and secondary symptoms may get weU without mercuiy. (2) That out of 1,940 cases treated witliout it, ninety-six had secondary symptoms; and out of 2,827 treated with it, fifty-one had secondary symptoms. The average result of different experimenters, however, show that there are at least seven times as many cases of secondary s}^raptoms, when no mercurjf has been given, as when it has. (3) That the secondary symptoms of cases treated without it are in general less severe, and that affections of the bones in particular are much less frequent. (4) That the average period of cure is much the same in both cases ; but that relapses are more frequent when no mercury has been given.* SECTION II.—OF GONORRHIEA. Syn.— Gonorrhoea virulenia ; Blenorrhcajia ; Urethritis. Definition.—A gonorrhoea signifies a discharge from the mucous membrane of the male or female genitals; generally produced by contagion from a similar discharge during sexual connexion. Symptoms.—These may be conveniently divided into three stages. In the first stage, the patient merel}' notices a little itching at the orifice of the urethra, with a slight serous, or thin whitish discharge. If the disease is not checked at once, it passes after a few days into the second, or acutely inflammatory stage. The discharge becomes thick and purulent, and when the disease is at its height is greenish, or tinged with blood. The penis swells; the glans becomes of a pecu- culiarly cherry colour, is intensely tender, and often excoriated. In consequence of the tumefied state of the urethra, the stream of urine is small and forked, and passed with much straining and severe pain and scalding. All the parts in the vicinitj’^ of the genitals, the groin, thighs, perinaeum, and testicles, ache and feel tender; and the patient’s nightly rest is disturbed by long-continued and painful erec- tions, and by chordee, that is, a highly painful and crooked state of the penis during erection. This arises from a deposit of lymph in the corpris spongiosum urethra., which glues together the cells, and pre- vents their distension, so that when the penis is turgid with blood, it is bent at one part, and horribly painful. * Vide Astruc on the Venereal Disease, Lond. 1754; Aphrodisiacus, by Daniel Turner, M.D., Lond. 1736 la collection of the opinions of the early authors); Hunter on the Venereal; Ilennen’s Military Surgeiy ; Carmichael on Syphilis; Dacot’s Treatise on Syphilis; Travers on the Venereal; Titley on Diseases of the Genitals of the Male; Wallace on the Venereal (Plates); Judd's Treatise on Urethritis and S}'])hilis (Plates); H. .1. Johnson, in Med. Chir. Review; Colies on the Venereal; Ricord, Tniit6 des Maladies Ven5riennes, Paris, 1839 ; Mayo on Syphilis, Lond. 1840 ; Mr. I.ane’s Lectures in the Lancet, 1841 and 1842 ; Mr. Acton’s Treatise on Venereal Diseases, with an Atlas of Plates, Lond. 1841.