BUBO. 190 to such aflfcctions, indulges in immoderate sexual intercourse (espe- cially if at the same time his health is lowered by fatigue, or irregular living), still there is not the slightest proof that such buboes are syphilitic, unless preceded by chancre; and the surgeon is not justified in administering mercury, unless he can produce chancre by inocu- lation with the discharge, or unless decided secondary symptoms occur.* Treatment.—1. The acute bubo must be treated as an acute abscess. Tlie -first indication is to produce resolution ;—by rest, aperient and saline remedies, low diet, leeches, and fomentations. The applications to the chancre must be soothing, and mercur)^, if being administered, should be at once given up. Sometimes, it is true, a rapid exhibition of it causes a rapid disappearance of the bubo;—but more generallj' it hastens suppuration, and it certainly predisposes to subsequent ulceration. It maybe easily resumed afterwards. As soon as the tenderness is relieved, pressure by means of a compress and bandage is useful. Even if matter does form, the surgeon should be in no haste to evacuate it;—but should endeavour to procure its ab- sorption by repeated leechings, discutient lotions, or painting it with a strong tinctiu’e of iodine, with aperients, attention to the health, and change of air. When the case becomes chronic, frictions, bandages, &c., may be used to remove any swelling that remains. But if the matter increases, and the skin becomes inflamed and shining, a puncture should be made, and the case be treated as any other acute abscess. 2. In treating the indoleiithiitjo, the general health must be amended by every possible means ; tonics, the acids, sarsaparilla, change of air, and especially a sea voyage ;—with occasional leechings and cold lo- tions, when demanded by an aggravation of heat and pain. If these measures fail, and matter fonns, and the skin is becoming bluish and thin, a blister may be applied ;—or the diseased skin may be rubbed with ar^. 7i(V. ,• which measures will either promote absorption, or at least stimulate the parts to a healthier action. But if the matter con- tinue to increase, the swelling should be opened either by rubbing it with potussa fusa, or bj' applying the nitrate first, and then opening it with a lancet;—cither plan having the advantage of causing diminu- tion of the swelled glands, and preventing the spread of ulceration. Mercur}' should not be given;—except, perhaps, in alterative doses towards the close of the case. In tre.ating the sore formed by opening a bubo, the first thing is to get rid of the loose red skin. This may be done (as soon as the part is becoming indolent and swelling is abated) by cutting it away with scissors, or by the potassa fusa- A solution of nitrate of silver is the best dressing afterwards. * An ofllccr in the Rifles, young, tall, and eminently lymphatic in tempera- ment, told the Author, that whilst serving in Canaihi in 1841, a large cluster of glands in the groin swelled and suppurated after immoderate sexual indulgence. He was attended by one civil and three military surgeon.s; and this surgical staff was equally divided in opinion, whether the complaint was syphilitic or not.