GUN-SnOT WOUNDS. 125 masse, their effects are far more destructive than those of a bullet, for they spread in the flesh, and so cause greater laceration, besides the mischief arising from their lodgment in the tissues. Gun-shot Fracture.—When a ball, propelled with great velocitj", strikes against bone of compact tissue, such as the body of the femur, it produces a comminuted fracture of the worst description, shivering the bone into splinters, and often splitting it up for great distances. But when the velocity of the ball is very slight, it maj’ be flattened, and rebound, or may, if it strike a sharp edge, such as the spine of the tibia, be itself split into pieces. If it strikes the cancellated tissue, it will probably bore a canal through it, of which the exit may possi- bly be twice as large as the entrance. If the propelling force be nearly exhausted, the ball may lodge in the cancellous tissue; forming for itself a kind of chamber in which it may be easily moved or shaken, but from which it is very difficult to extract it, in consequence of the small size of the entrance. If the ball penetrate the cancellous texture very near a joint, it will most probably shiver the bone between its course and the joint. If it strikes a bone obliquely it may dig out a longitudinal groove w’ithout fracture. Progre.s.s and Conseqttences.—In favourable cases.—Inflamma- tion generally comes on in from tw'elve to twenty-four hours after a gun- shot w'ound of some common part. The wound becomes swelled, stiff, and painful, and exudes a little reddish serum. On the third or fourth day pus begins to be formed: but the suppuration is limited bj' the effusion of lymph around the wound. About the fifth day the parts in the immediate track of the ball, which have been killed bj' the violence of the contusion, begin to separate, and change from a blackish red to a brownish yellow colour ;—and on the tenth or fif- teenth day, sooner or later, according to the vigour of the constitu- tion, the slough is thrown off.* In the mean time granulations form, the wound contracts and becomes impervious at the centre, and gene- rally' heals with a depressed cicatrix by the end of six weeks or two months,—the lower aperture always healing first. These are the symptoms observed in healthy constitutions, and they will be at- tended with little constitutional disturbance, and that of no long duration. Inflammatory Complication.—But if the patient, previously to the receipt of his w-ound or after it, has committed excesses, or has been exposed to vicissitudes of temperature,— or if the wound has been irritated by want of rest, or improper applications, the local and con- stitutional affections are much more formidable. The pain is more .severe, the redness and swelling more extensive, the wound dry, and fever violent. When suppuration is established, instead of being confined to the track of the ball, it is diffused amongst the neighbour- ing muscles and under fascim, fonning numerous and irregular sinuses; ♦ * It is by no means tine, as is gencraiiy stated, that tlio whoio track of the bail must siougli, for Hie separated parts are never eipial in extent to tlie depth of the wound.—tiuthrie.