409 DEAFNESS. that we read of, may have very easily produced fatal results. Possibly the reason wli}”^ more mischief has not been done, is that the catheter has been poked somewhere, but not into the Eustachian tube. Perfo- ration of the membrana tympani, which has been proposed to be done, so as to allow the access of air to the tympanum when the natural openings in the throat are obliterated, is another operation of very doubtful utility. IV. Deafness may be caused by blows on the head, which either produce concussion or rupture of the auditory nerve, or else extravasa- tion of blood into the tympanum or labyrinth. Depletion, if any inflammatory symptoms are present, with alteratives and counter- irritants afterwards, are the only remedies ; but if deafness immedi- ately succeed the injur}', they will scarcely relieve it. V. It may be produced by oryanic alterations in the brain, tu- mours, or the like, and may be attended with epilepsy or idiocy, or may be a consequence of apoplexy or convulsions. The treatment must be the same as for amaurosis arising from similar causes (p. 393). VI. Deafness with -perforation of the membrana tympani, from ul- ceration. It has been shown by Mr. Yearsley, that this form of deaf- ness is greatly relieved by passing down, night and morning, a little bit of wet cotton wool, so as to stop the aperture, and act as a sub- stitute for the lost membrane.* VII. Deafness is said to be nervous, when it depends on general torpor and debility, and is better at some times tlian at others, espe- cially in fine weather, and when the patient is cheerful or excited, and the stomach in good order, and when there is an entire absence of all symptoms or vestiges of inflammation. But such a form of deaf- ness is rare ; and Mr. Toynbee has shown, that even in very old persons, in whom it is often supposed to be common, the usual cause of deafness is not defect in the nervous apparatus, but thickening, adhesions, and other effects of inflammation of the tympanal cavity. Treatment.—-Aperients, with diffusible stimulants, especially am- monia, arnica, and valerian; stimulating gargles, masticatories of pellitory, &c. If the meatus is dry, and altogether deficient in ceru- men, great benefit nia}' be derived from the introduction of a few drops of fish-oil, or of ox-gall, or the vapour of aether or of sp. am. ar. into the meatus, and the application of garlic, mustard, and other counter-irritants behind the ear. Electricity may be mischievous.i* • Vide Lancet for 1848, vol. ii. p. 10, 64, &c. + Vide Copland Diet. Art. Ear and Hearing; Kramer on Diseases of the Ear, translated by Deiinet; Pilcher on the Structure and Diseases of the E;ir, Lond. 1838; Essay on the Ear, by Joseph Williams, M.D. Lend. 1840 ; a ])apor by Mr. Toynbee in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxiv.; Med. Gaz. 7th July, 1843 ; and on Senile Deafness, Edin. Monthly Journal of Med. Sc., Eeb. 1849. In- struments for giving tension to the external auricle, are seldom of much ser- vice, though pulled as if miraculous ; some of the best the Author has seen are the Conques Acoustiques, made by Deon, Hue de la I’ai.x, No. 4 bis, Paris.