112 MELANOSIS. College Museum. Sometimes portions of it are developed in a scir- rhous tumour, and have been mistaken for a softened state of the latter. It is much rarer than either scirrhus or encephaloid, and as yet has only been observed in adults. General Description.—Melanosis is a disease consisting in the de- posit of a brown or black pigment like that of the choroid coat of the eye. The black substance is bleached by nitric acid and chlorine ; and is not carbon like the black matter in the lungs of old persons, nor vet sulphuret of iron. It may either be deposited in a tuberiform mass, or may be infiltrated through the substance of an organ. The most common primary seats of the affection are the subcutaneous cellular tissue and the eye, but when once the diathesis is established, the liver, lungs, bone, and many other internal organs may be invaded. Horses, especially grays, are more liable to melanosis than man is. Melanosis is not considered by pathologists a really malignant growth, because, though it depends on a certain diathesis,—is incurable, —returns if excised,—affects man}' organs in the same individual, and produces a cachexia,—yet it does not form a tissue, but the cells continue free like those of pus or tubercle. Yet it is convenient to consider it in this chapter, because it is not uncommonly found associated with scirrhus or encephaloid. Progress and Termination.—The average duration of life in indivi- causes to their functions, are very sufficient causes of exhaustion and death. Treatment.—External tumours may be extirpated, if the surgeon thinks it advisable, and the health is pretty good. The general health should be carefully attended to.f * Tlie above cut shows a tuberiform deposit of melanosis in the cutis vera. t Carswell, op. cit. Fawdington on Melanosis, Loud. 1826; Mackenzie oh tile Eye, p. 55Z; Holmes Coote in Lancet, Aug. 8, 1846. SECTION V.—OF MELANOSIS. duals affected with this disease, is pi'obably un- der two years. The tumours after a time increase, soften, irri- tate the neighbouring tissues, and ulcerate ; and the irritation of this process, coupled with the, peculiar ca- chexia of the disease. V and the disturbance which its presence in various internal organs