ALBUMINOUS URINE. 521 by cold and suppression of the perspiration, or by the presence of a morbid poison, as when dropsy and albuminous urine occur after scar- latina ; or by the pressure of the gravid uterus, or of other tumours on the renal veins ; 3rdly, through an intermixture of pus with the urine. 1. Urine may be known to contain albumen, by heating a small quantity in a test-tube over a spirit-lamp, when the albumen will coagulate, and, according to its quantity, may either produce a mere opacitj’, or may even solidify the entire specimen heated. If the urine be alkaline, this test will fail, because then heat alone will not coa- gulate the albumen ; and, moreover, heat alone may cause a deposit of white phosphates ; therefore a drop of nitric acid should be added, which will prevent mistake. Search should be made with the micro- scope for the little shreddy particles of albumen, which indicate dis- ease of the tubuli uriniferi of the kidney. They generally fall to the bottom of the vessel, and form a dirty white cloud-like mucus. 2. When urine contains a very small quantity of blood, which has drained from the tubuli uriniferi, it has a dingy, smoky hue, like port wine and water ; the albumen coagulates by heat ; and blood-cor- puscles and minute fibrinous shreds may be discovered by means of the microscope. 3. Pus may be present in the urine, through suppuration of any part of the mucous lining of the urinary passages, or from an abscess in some contiguous part which has hurst into them. It generally falls to the bottom of the vessel containing the urine, “ forming a dense homogeneous layer of a pale greenish cream colour, seldom hanging in ropes in the fluid, like mucus, and becoming, by agitation, completely diffused through it. The addition of acetic acid neither prevents this diffusion, nor dissolves the deposit. If a portion of the deposited pus be agitated with an equal quantity of liquor potass®, it forms a dense, translucent, gelatinous mass. On decanting some urine from the de- posited pus, the presence of albumen may be detected by heat and nitric acid.”* The pus globules may be recognised under the micro- scope. 4. Mucus, when present in urine, may be distinguished from pus, by the addition of acetic acid, which corrugates the viscid liquor of the mucus, but exerts no such action on the liquor puris. Moreover, mucus contains no albumen in a state capable of coagulation by heat or nitric acid. Abscess in the Kidney.—This may be suspected if dull pain in the loins and repeated shivering follow the symptoms of nephritis. Sometimes the abscess bursts into the ureter, and an immense (pian- tity of pus is discharged with the urine. Abscess of the kidney also sometimes bursts on the loins, and the patient has been known to recover. • Quoted from Oolding Bird on Urinary Deposits, 2nd edit. p. 273 ; a work containing most ampie and valuabio infomiation on tlic sulyect it treats of. See aiso the Art. Ben, Ijy Dr. George John.son, in Todd's Cydopuidia, for a fuil account of morbid conditions of the kidney.