NiEVUS. 3J5 Extirpation of these tumours is practicable only when they are of the cutaneous variety, or when they can be lifted up from tlie parts beneath, so that their whole extent can be ascertained. If it is done with the knife, two elliptical incisions should be made, to include the whole of the diseased growth, and a little of the sound tissues around. For, to use Mr. Guthrie’s words, “it cannot be too forcibly impressed on the mind of the surgeon, that if the diseased part be cut into, the bleeding will be terrific and difficult to stop.” But it is generally cbnsidered that the ligature is the safest and best method. One mode of using it is to pass two or three needles crucially through the base of the tumour, and then twist a strong silk ligature firmly round beneath them. Or instead of this, two or more double ligatures may be passed through the base of the tumour, with a curved needle which has its eye at its pointed extremity, and then the tumour may be strangulated by tying the adjacent threads together. Mr. Fergusson has devised the knot represented in the adjoining figure. A needle armed with a double thread is thrust transversely under the centre of the tumour. The centre of the thread, which has the needle in it, is then divided. Next, one end of the thread is passed through the eye of a needle, which eye should be near its point, and, having been brought one- fourth round the circumference of the tumour is thrust transversely through its base. Then it is to be disengaged from the eye of the needle, and the other thread to be put into the eye, and to be carried back with it. Lastly, the adjoin- ing ends of the two threads are to be tied tightly ; so that each of the two threads shall include an 8-shaped portion of the tumour. The tumour may be punctured before the threads are finally tightened, but in every case the constriction should be made as tight as possible. After two or three days the ligatures should be tightened, or fresh ones should be applied. If the skin is not implicated, it may be dis- sected back in flaps before the ligatures are passed ; or, the process may be expedited, and pain be saved, by just cutting through the cutis vera, and sinking the ligatures in the cuts; so that the pain- ful process of ulceration through the skin may be saved. Mr. C. Hawkins says the granulations after an operation often look large and prominent, as if the disease would return, but heal up readily.* Another method analogous to extirpation, is the division of all the soft parts around the tumour. This was once done successfully by * Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. iv. p. 940.