124 GUN-SnOT WOUNDS. Spent Balls.—Injuries from spent cannon-balls have at all times attracted great attention from the extreme violence of the injurj’ in- flicted, and the very little external appearance of it. In some rare cases a cannon-ball has passed close to the head, and has caused death, either immediately or within a few hours, without leaving any morbid appearance that could be detected by dissection.* But in the majo- rity of instances it is found, that although the skin may be intact, or but triviall}’^ grazed, still that the parts beneath have been irreparably disorganized ;—the muscles pulpified, the bones comminuted, and large vessels and nerves tom across. The patient is severely stunned ; and the part injured is motionless, and senseless, and benumbed for some distance. Swelling soon comes on, but more from extravasation, than from inflammation, which, although attempted to be set up, never attains any height. Gangrene follows speedily, and is propa- gated to the neighbouring parts, weakened as they are by participa- tion in the injury, and by their contact with tissues that have ceased to live. These cases were formerly called wind contusioiis, being ascribed to a eompression and displacement of the air by the ball; but the sub- joined quotation from Baron Larrey offers tlie most probable explana- tion of the phenomenon.f Saiall Shot, discharged from a fowling-piece or pistol, produce different effects, according to the distance at which they strike. If the distance is great, they will in all probability be scattered, and fall singly; jiejipcruuj the victim smartly, but not penetrating beyond the subcutaneous tissue, nor doing much harm unless one of them strike the eye. But if the distance is small, so that they strike en * A lad was carrying a sand-bag on his head, when it was struck by a twenty-four pound shot from a distant battery. He immediately fell, sense- less and comatose, with a slow, weak pulse, labouring respiration without stertor, and incessant attempts to vomit. The pupil of one eye was dilated and motionless, that of the other natural; the hair along the sagittal suture was erect, resembling that of a person placed on the insulating stool and elec- trified. In this state he remained for twenty-four hours, and then expired in convulsions. No cause of death was discovered on a minute examination, so that it must be attributed to a violent eoncussion ; but it is remarkable that the ball should cause such a concussion, without also causing some more palpable lesion.—Hcnnen, p. 96. t “ A cannon-ball is propelled at first with a rectilinear movement; and if, during this part of its course, it strikes against any part of the human body, it carries it away; but the ball, after having traversed a certain distance, undergoes some change in motion, in eonsequence of the resistance of the atmosphere, and the attraction of the earth, and turns on its OAvn axis, in addition to the direct impulse received from the explosion of the powder. If it should strike any part of the body when the velocity with which the ball is passing is greatly diminished, it does not carrj- it away, as in the preceding case; but in eonsequeiice of its curvilinear or rolling motion, it turns round the part, in the same manner as a wheel passes over a limb, instead of forcing a passage tlirough it. The soft elastic i>arts, such as the skin and cellular membrane, yield, whilst the bones, museles, tendons, arteries, &c., offering a greater degree of resistance, are either bruised or ruptured. If the ball should strike one of the cavities of the body, the viscera sufler in like manner.”—Mem. de Cliir. Mil. quoted by Guthrie.