EXAMINATION OP THE EAR. 401 these dilators are of no great use, and the most convenient one will probablj^ be found to be a simple conical silver tube of the size and shape depicted in the adjoining cut, and intended solely to transmit light. For the examination, it is advisable to have a good stream of direct sunshine; but if this cannot be had, the best substitute is a gas or Argand lamp.* The patient, according to his height, should sit, kneel, or stand sideways before the simgeon ; who should take the auricle with one hand and gently draw it outwards and backwards, whilst with the other he inserts the speculum as far as it will go without pain. Then, hi' placing the patient’s head at the proper angle, and by gently moving the large end of the speculum from side to side, a stream of light may be made to play on the innermost por- tion of the meatus, and on the membrana tyinpani. But the operator ' must take care not to put his own head in the light. When the innermost portion of the meatus is thus examined, its lining exhibits, if healthy, a “ fine, smooth, dry, pearly white, shining appearance,” and in a perfectly healthy state, it is not coated with wax. The me.mbrana tympa7ii also is seen closing the passage obliquely ; graj'ish white, dry, and semitransparent. “Within it, is seen the handle of the malleus, proceeding from above downwards, and slightly forwards.” This bone, which runs about half-way across the mem- brane, divides it into an anterior superior, and posterior inferior portion, the former of which is flat or slightly concave, whilst that part “ which is below and behind the malleus is, in a perfectly healthy living human ear, convex towards the external aperture. This lower portion is also more glistening in appearance than the upper or ante- rior part, and when viewed through the speculum, a bright spot of light shines upon its most convex portion, which is a little below and behind the point of the malleus.” Under inflammation, this inner- most division of the meatus becomes thickened, highly vascular, and villous or granular, like the granular conjunctiva, and secretes a purulent matter; but, according to Mr. Wilde, never gives origin to polypus or fungus. * A doscriptiou of an instrument for examining the oar was puljlislied by Dr. Warden, of Edinburgh, in the Edin. Phil. Jour., Oct. 1844. Mr. Avery, of the Cliaring Cross ilospitai, has also constructed an auriscope, witli a powerful rellecting lamp. h D