ACUTE TETANUS. 18 nish centric irritation depending on a diseased or congested state of the cord ; and 3, to relieve the unnatural excitability, (s') In the local treatment, the first points to be accomplished are, to remove all extraneous bodies from the wound, if there be one ; to make incisions, if necessarj% for the free discharge of pus, or for the relief of inflammatory swelling and tension; and if any isolated por- tion of nerve or tendon happens to be on the stretch, to divide it. Then the part may be fomented with warm decoction of poppies ; after which, a solution of a scruple of opium, or extract of belladonna in an ounce of water, may be applied on lint, and the whole part be enveloped in large soft poultices. Sundry other measures have been proposed, in order more effectually to remove local irritation: such as the division of the principal nerve leading from the wound ; or, as Mr. Liston has proposed, the making a \ incision above, so as to isolate it and cut off as much nervous communication as possible ; or the destruction of a ragged, contused, ill-conditioned wound by actual cautery, as Larrey and others have practised with great benefit; or the excision of the wound if cicatrized or nearly so. Sometimes, when the wound is nearly cicatrized, or has ceased to suppurate, the appli- cation of a blister or of strong stimulating ointments has been of ser- vice ; but, as Mr. Curling (*’) observes, it happens, unfortunately, that the tetanic condition of the spinal cord, when fully established, is mostly independent of its local exciting cause, and does not cease on its removal. Hence amputation of the injured part has very rarely been successful, and has even aggravated the mischief; so that as a general rule, it ought not to be performed, unless desirable for some other reason besides the tetanus. We must next review the constitutional remedies that have been employed in tetanus, stating their relative utility, and the cases in which they are most likely to be beneficial. 1. A7itiphlogistie measures.—Bleeding may be used in cases attended with marked inflammatory symptoms, or if the habit be full, and the Avound hot, swelled, and painful. In other cases it should not be em- ployed at all. Mercury in similar cases, given so as to induce ptyalism, has often appeared to do good. Purgatives are always indicated ; and the most active ones must be chosen. Thus, at the outset of the malad}', a powder of calomel and jalap mixed Avith butter should be put at the back of the tongue for the patient to sAvalloAv, and should be folloAved in an hoiu- Avith a draught containing of turpentine and a similar quantity of castor oil, or by a drop or two of croton oil ; and enemata of turpentine should be frequently administered until the boAvels are completely unloaded. The circumstances Avhich forbid the use of purgatives, are previous disease of the alimentary canal ; dysentery, ulcers, &c. ; but even then there Avould be no objection to unirritating enemata. 2. Sedatives.—Tobacco has the credit of being one of the most effica- cious remedies in tetanus ; but it is so fatal a poison, in an overdose.