55 YAIUETIES OF I'US. till putrefaction is commencing, or if treated with a small quantity of liq. potassai, the oil globules become extremely distinct ; but too much either of the alkali, or of de- composition, dissolves the outer en- velope. Besides the globules, other smaller albuminous molecules are also found in pus in great abundance, of the same nature apparently as the central molecules of the globules. I\Iany of the properties of pus de- pend on these globules. Its specific gravity for instance (which varies from 1-021 to 1'040), and its den- sit\‘, depend on the number of them. Moreover, pus is coagulated by a strong solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia. But this coagulation is not produced by the solidification of matters previously fluid, like the coagulation of blood or milk ; neither is it caused by the salt merely abstracting the water of the pus, as Pearson supposed ; but it depends on a change in the globules, which become more transparent, elongated, and adherent. Freezing also renders pus viscid, and has a similar effect on the globules. A heat of 1G5°, however, coagulates it by acting upon the albumen of the serous portion. Varieties of Pus.—1. //ea/f/zy Piis (called also creanjy or laud- ahle) is that which has already been described, and is the product of healthy inflammation in healthy parts. It is album, Imve, liquiilum, et laudabile. 2. Serous Pus is thin, and yellowish or reddish. It contains very little fatty matter or fibrinous globules, and is the product of a low degree of inflammation in weak constitutions. 3. Clottij or Curdy Pus resembles the serous, but has numerous white clots and flocculi of coagulated fibrine floating in it. It is commonly found in scrofulous abscesses. 4. Mucous Pus (IT ]\fuco-purjdcnt matter. —Healthy mucus consists of a more or less viscous matter containing a very few glo- bules (hardly to be distinguished from the white globules of the blood, or from pus globules,) and epithelium scales cast off by the membrane from which the mucus was secreted. The globules contain much less oil • Tlio uppemiost group gives a pretty accurate idea of the appearance of pus globules magnified 400 diameters. The middle figures represent globules treated with acetic acid;—the lowest represent the appearances when pus is partially decomposed or treated with liip potassio. These figures were drawn from nature by l)r, Westmacott, under the suporintendonee of Dr..lohnson of King's College. t This cut after Vogel, shows the transit ion from the fiat irregularly five- sided epithelium scale to the round globule.