207 MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND BUESiE. ceases to grow in proportion with the other parts of the body; and its flexor muscles often become affected with rigidity, so that the joints are immovably bent and contracted. Treatment.—Steel, quinine, cod liver oil, and other tonics ; warm clothing and liberal diet; stimulating frictions, affusion with cold water, passive exercise, shampooing, and electricity or galvanism. II. Rigid Atrophy is a state in which a muscle becomes short, rigid, and inextensible; and it generally, by its shortening, causes various displacements and deformities of the parts to which it is attached;—thus clubfoot is a consequence of this condition of the muscles of the calf. Causes.—1st. It may be induced by lo7ig inactivity of the antagonist muscle ;—thus, after long-continued disease of the knee, the flexor muscles of the ham may become shortened and inextensible, keeping the joint permanently bent, and often dragging the tibia off from the condj'les of the femur. 2ndly. It ma}' be a sequel of a species of subacute inflammation, which occasionally affects muscles or their in- vesting fasciae, and which is attended with pain, tenderness, and spasm. 3rdly. It may be a sequel of habitual sjmsm, by whatever cause produced. Treatment.—In the earlier stages this affection may be relieved in various ways. By cupping, fomentations, or the steam bath, and subsequently blisters over the affected muscles, if there is any evidence of local inflammation. By purgatives and tonics, if the spasm appears to arise from disordered bowels or any other sympathetic source. By mechanical extension with splints, &c. But in cases of long standing, the only remedj' that can be relied on is division of the affected muscle or its tendon; by which means the divided parts will retract; they will unite by lymph, and will consequently be lengthened, and then extension and the other measures may be pursued with greater vigour and efficacy. (For further illustrations refer to Clubfoot and Wry Neck.) III. Acute Atrophy.—In this affection one or'more muscles rapidly waste away, and their wasting is attended with severe pain, especially in the course of their nerves. It appears to depend on a rheumatic inflammation of the muscular nerves, and to be caused by exposure to cold.* IV. Rupture of Muscles and Tendons.—This is an accident which is frequently caused by violent muscular contraction; especially if, after illness or long inactivity, the muscles are subjected to sudden and severe exertion. The muscles which are most frequently ruptured are, the gastrocnemius, the rectus femoris, which sometimes is entirely detached from the patella,t and biceps flexor cubiti; but more fre- quently the tendons give way, especially the tendo Achillis, and flexor tendons of the wrist. “ It occasionally happens,” says Mr. Liston, • Two cases of it are given in Mayo’s Pathology, p. 117. Tlio autlior ha.s seen .several, which all attempts have failed to cure. t Vincent, op. cit. p. 71.