38« RETINITIS. advances a certain length, and then hecomes stationarj^; and the only thing complained of besides the loss of vision, is the deformity. SECTION XIII.—OP RETINITIS. The Retina must of necessity be more or less involved in any inflammatory process which affects the deeper structures of the eye- ball ; but sometimes it appears to be the original seat of inflammation, of which authors describe three forms; the acute, subacute, and chronic. 1. In the acuie form the symptoms are—severe, deep-seated and throbbing pain in the eye, extending to the temples and head ; vision rapidly impaired, or even altogether lost; frequent sensations of flashes of light, with great fever and delirium. The pupil gradually closes— the iris loses its brilliancy, and the sclerotic is highly vascular and rose-red. If unrelieved, the whole globe may suppurate. 2. Sub- acute.— Dimness of sight, headache or giddiness, flushed countenance and fever, the pjipil soon becoming motionless, and the iris turbid. 3. Chronic.—Gradually increasing dimness of sight—visions of black spots or flashes of light—irritability of the e3'e, and intolerance of light —tenderness of the eyeball, and of the parts around ; but the patient, though he may shade the eve, does not always shut it. Thesejiffec-. f^ions are distinguished bj' the circumstance that dimness of sight and intolerance of light occur before redness, or any external sign of in- flammation. But the practitioner must carefully discern between these symptoms and the intolerance of light or photophobia, which occurs in Strumous OjMhahnia, as the treatment for the two com- plaints should be diametrically opposite. The age of the patient, and the fact that in Stnimous Ophthalmia the sufterer has periods of remission, and can usually open the ej'es towards evening, will sufficiently mark the difference: besides, in acute Retinitis, there is deep-seated pain felt at all times, while in Stnimous Ophthalmia the pain is very little felt, so long as light is completely excluded. Causes.—Eigi^osure to vdyid Jight, flashes of lightning, sinmg fires, the reflection of~f!ie sun from snow, and the like—or habitual exer- tion of tjie_eye on minute objects, together with neglect of exercise, confinement of the bowels, and over-indulgence in food and spirituous Ijquors. ' Prof/nosis.—If, in the acute or subacute form, vision is not much impaired, nor the iris altered, nor the pupil much contnacted, the pro- gnosis may be favourable. Treatment.—General and local bleeding, purgatives, mercury ad- ministered so as to affect the mouth—belladonna, and the antiphlo- gistic treatment generallj', according to the urgency of the S3-mptoms and the strength of the patient. The eyes should not be closely covered, but the patient should be kept in a darkened apartment, ob- serving at the same time that it is thoroughly ventilated. So soon as the urgent symptoms abate, change of air will be found of great service.