COMPRESSION FROM EXTRAVASATED BLOOD. 332 pain in the head, caused by tlie bursting of a blood-vessel, and becomes sick and faint—in fact, sulfers from concussion. Then he recovers his senses-—but shortly afterwards, as the extravasation from the ruptured vessel increases, becomes quite comatose.* On the other hand, if a large quantity of blood is extravasated rapidly, the symptoms of compression may immediately succeed the insensibility of concussion, without any interval of consciousness. The blood may be situated, 1. between the dura-mater and skull; and if in lai-ge quantity, it proceeds from laceration of a branch of the middle meningeal artery ; 2. between the membranes ; 3. in the substance of the brain. Diagnosis.—The insensibility arising from compression may be distinguished from that which arises from concussion of the brain by observing, 1st. That the symptoms of concussion always follow the accident immediately ; those of compression from effusion of blood may come on after an interval. “ The first stunning or deprivation of sense,” says Pott, “ may be from either ; no man can tell from which; but when these first symptoms have been removed, or have spon- taneously disappeared, if such patient is again oppressed with drowsi- ness or stupidity, it then becomes most probable that the first com- plaints were from concussion, and that the latter .are from extravasa- tion.” 2ndly. In concussion, the pulse is feeble, and the skin pale ; and the greater the insensibility the feebler will the pulse be. In com- pression , on the contrary, when reaction is thoroughly cstaljlished, the pulse wiU be slow and full, and the skin hot and perspiring. 3rdly. Stertorous breathing and muscular palsy are rare in mere con- cussion, common in compression. 4thly. The pupil in concussion is variable; sometimes contracted, sometimes dilated, and not always insensible to light ; in compression, it is almost always dilated and insensible. Treatment.—The head should be shaved and examined, and if there is no sign of fracture, the case must be treated as one of apo- plexy ; the indications being to avert inflammation, and procure ab- sorption of the blood by bleeding, cold applications to the head, calomel and purgatives in repeated doses. Frequently a puffy swelling, arises after a day or two, and points out the seat of the blow. If, in spite of the above measures, the insensibility continues, and the lungs become clogged with mucus, and the breath escapes from the corner of the mouth with a peculiar whiff during expiration, which are very perilous symptoms, the last resource—and, under these circumstances, it must be confessed, a very desperate one—is trephining,—which operation should be performed at the seat of the injury, if that is known,—or if that is not known, it should be done where any puffy swelling arises ; or lastlj-, if there is no puffy swelling, it should be done over the middle meningeal arteiy ; and if one side is more palsied than the other, it should be done on the other, because, as is Copland, Diet. Art. Apople.xy.