DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 506 cured by mechanical means. And these are five: I, The bougie; 2, the catheter kept in the urethra; .3, the caustic bougie; 4, punctu- ration with the stilette, and, 5, division from the perinaeuin. 1. The bougie.—In order to ascertain with precision the existence of stricture, the urethra should be examined with a common plaster bougie of full size, i. e., one that will readily enter the orifice, and that will fill the urethra witliout stretching it. The surgeon takes the corona glandis in his left hand, and introduces the bougie (previously oiled and bent to the shape of the urethra) with his right—holding it loosely like a pen. If it meets with an obstruction, it should be slightly withdrawn, then tried again. If it now seem to pass, the surgeon should relinquish his hold, and then if it recoils, it is a sign that it has bent against the stricture; whereas if it has entered the stricture it will be held, and will require a gentle force to dislodge it. If after all it does not pass, a metallic sound or catheter may be tried, because a slight obstacle to the instrument at its first introduction must not be set down at once as stricture. The patient generally suft'ers somewhat from sickness and faintness on the first trial. When the stricture is clearly made out, the surgeon should mark and laj^ by a bougie that will just pass through it. In throe or four days" time he introduces the same bougie again, lets it remain a few minutes, then withdraws it, and introduces another of a size larger, which he suffers to remain for ten or fifteen minutes. After three more days the process is repeated, first using the instrument that was passed, on the former occasion, then one of a size larger; and this process repeated a sufficient number of times affords in most cases an easy, painless cure. In any case in which great pain or irritation attends the process, the patient may be put under the influence of chloroform. Metallic bougies or sounds made of silver, or steel j)lated, are to be preferred to those of the ordinary soft materials, 1st, if the stricture is old and very hard and gristly; 2ndly, in cases of very irritable urethraj, because their smooth polished surface is not so apt to cause spasm; 3rdly, in cases where a false passage has been formed, which these instruments, as they can be directed with greater precision, can be better made to avoid. The}’- should be eight or nine inches long, not smaller than No. 4, slightly curved, and mounted on a firm wooden handle, and their point should be made to slide along the upper surface of the urethra, as it is at the bottom that false passages generally e.xist, .and are most easily made. These instruments may also be used for the cure of old impassable strictures in the following way:—A sound of moderate size, about one-fifth or one-sixth of an inch in diameter, may be introduced once in three or four days, and be firmly pressed .against the stricture for from five to fifteen minutes, taking care to keep its point ag.ainst the upper ]).art of the urethra. This will cause the anterior part of the stricture to relax a little; and if the process is repeated often enough it will at last clear the way to the bladder.* Or a sound with a conic.al point may be introduced into * Vide Sir 13. Brodic on tiio Urinary Organs, 3rd ciL 1842.