MORTIFICATION. 90 And this rule still holds good in mortifications arising from constitu- tional causes; in that caused, for instance, by loss of blood, or fever. But even after the line of demarcation has formed, it is necessary to take care that the patient has vigour enough to bear the loss of blood which must in some degree necessarilj'^ ensue. Sir A. Cooper mentions a case in which a mortified leg was separating favourably by itself through the calf, when the projecting bones were sawn off, with a view of expediting the process. A few granulations were accidentally wounded, and the trivial hmmorrhage that ensued was fatal.* But it will be proper to amputate without waiting for the line of separation, if the mortification be local as to its cause; as, for instance, in mortification of a limb from severe compound fracture or from injury or aneurism of the large arterial trunks. This practice is sanctioned by Larrey, Guthrie, Brodie, S. Cooper, Lawrence, Velpeau, James, and Porter of Dublin. We may add, that amputation seems to be justifiable as a last resource whenever there appears little or no dispo- sition to limit gangrene, aud whenever it spreads rapidly. “ Where gangrene,” says Mr. Guthrie, “ is rapidly extending towards the trunk of the body, without any hope of its cessation, the operation is to be tried ; for it has certainly succeeded, where death woidd in a few hours have ensued.” i" Mortification from Obstacle to the Return of Venous Blood.—This form of mortification mostly atfects the lower extremi- ties of persons who labour under dropsy from diseased heart, and it is always preceded by great cedema. It may occur without inflammation, or may be a consequence of inflammation, which if it attack oedematous parts is always liable to terminate in gangrene. In the former case, the skin of the oedematous limb, having become pale, smooth, glossy, and tense, assumes a mottled aspect of a dull red or purple colour, from distension of the subcutaneous veins. “ Then at some part where the congestion is greatest, or where the skin is less yielding, as over the tibia, or above the malleoli, phlyctenae, or large bullae, are fonned by the effusion of scrosity, either alone or mixed with blood, under the cuticle. When these burst, the cutis beneath presents a dark red or brown colour, and very soon is converted into a dirty-yellow or ash- gray slough.” + After the spread of the mortification to a given extent, inflammation occurs ; and the slough, which is mostly an oval patch of skin and cellular tissue, separates. Treatment.—The part should be placed in an elevated position, and numerous punctures should be made with a needle, to let the serum exude. The mortified part, and the ulcer that results, are to be treated by warm poultices of yeast, carrots, or stale beer grounds, and stimulating dressings, of which the nitric acid lotion is the best. Mortification from Pressure, Bed Sores, &c.— When a patient is confined to bed with some very tedious and debilitating * Lectures by TjttcII, vol. i. p. 237. + Op. cit. p. 132; Velpeau, Lecture, in Lancet, 1848, vol. ii. p. 32. X Carswell. Illustrations of Eleinentarj’ Forms of Disease, Lond. 1837.