PERMANENT STRICTURE. 507 the anterior part of the stricture, and kept there for an hour or two at a time. This is often called the cure by vital dilatation. '1. If a small catheter is retained in the bladder for two or three days, the passage suppurates aud dilates remarkably; just as the lachrymal duct does from the presence of a style. This method of cure is extremely speedy and efficient. It may therefore be em- ployed, 1st, when time is of much value; Sndly, when the stricture is very gristly and cartilaginous ; 3rdly, when the urethra is irregular, or has had a false passage made in it; -Ithly, when the uretlira is so irritable that severe rigors and fever are occasioned by the passage of the urine after the use of the common bougie—a circumstance common enough with patients who have lived in hot climates. The catheter should be retained by means of two strings, which may either be fastened to the penis with sticking-plaster, or may be tied to the thighs, or may be passed backwards between the thighs, and be fastened to a band round the waist. It should be removed in three or four days, and a larger catheter shoidd be passed four-and- twenty hours afterwards, and should be introduced often enough subsequently to keep up the dilatation. But the continued presence of the catheter is liable to cause so great an amount of irritation that it cannot be borne. 3. The caustic bougie is liable, if mismanaged, to produce inflamma- tion, retention of urine, hmmorrhage, abscess, and anj' other conceivable mischief. Two kinds of caustic are used ; the nitrate of silver and the potassa fusa. A touch with either is a most powerful agent in deadening the sensibility of very irritable stiiclure. The caustic potass is much used by Mr. Wade, who speaks highly of its effects; 1st, in hard cartilaginous strictures through which no instrument can be passed without injurious force; 'ind, in hard strictures of long standing,which, though admitting the passage of a small bougie, bleed freely on its introduction ; 3rdly, irritable strictures ; 4thly, spas- modic strictures when not arising from acute inflammation ; othly, strictures which have a marked tendency to contraction, after having been dilated by the common bougie. The manner of using it is the fol- lowing :—“ A small piece of potassa fusa,” says Mr. Wade, “ should be inserted into a hole made in the point of a soft bougie. The eighth part of a grain is the smallest, and a grain the largest quantity of the potass I am in the habit of using, but it will rarely be necessary to exceed the sixth of a grain. The bougie should be well moulded round the potassa fusa, so as to prevent the alkali from projecting, and it should be so placed that it may be more a])plied to the upper than the lower part of the stricture. From three to four are the sizes of the bougies I generally employ, but to such as are pervious they should be used of a size or two larger than the obstruction, ■which the jioint of the instrument should penetrate. The armed bougie should be passed rapidly down to the stricture, and be held against it, with gentle but I steadily continued pressure for one, two, or three minutes, according to the nature of the obstruction, for if it is verj' irritable and bleed