613 CHLOROFORM. The Effects of the Inhalation of Ether depend without doubt on its entrance into the blood, and circulation through the nervous centres and rest of the body. The younger the patient, and more active the circulation, the sooner are its efiects produced. At first there is usually some slight coughing, the pulse and breathing are quickened, the face flushed, the eye suffused and unsteady, and there is more or less mental excitement; but, if the inhalation be continued, the limbs sink relaxed, the breathing becomes deep and somnolent, the eye turned upwards and fixed, and in this state there is complete insensibility of external impressions, so that siu’gical operations can be performed without the patient’s consciousness. If the amount of nar- cotization be pushed beyond this point, the reflex function of the spinal cord might be interfered with, respiration become slow and laborious, and death take place with the ordinary phenomena of coma. During the period that ether was largely employed, there were some few cases in which death followed its administration; but there can be little doubt but that death was post and not propter. Chloroform.—Brilliant as was the career of the ether discovery, it was destined soon to be eclipsed. Ether, whose chemical symbol is C^HjO, is one of a numerous class of bodies, all composed of hydrogen and carbon, with variable proportions of oxygen or some other electro- negative ; the hydrocarbon playing the part of a base, and the other element that of an acid radical. Dr. J. Y. Simpson of Edinburgh, believing that amongst these bodies some might be found equal or superior to ether, made many experiments on himself and friends with chloride of hydrocarbon, .acetone, nitrous ether, and other analogous substances, and at last, on the 4th of November, 18l7,in comp.any with Dr. Keith, and Dr. Matthews Duncan, found in a heavyish liquid that had been put by and almost forgotten, an agent which was mani- festly equal to ether in its narcotizing virtues, and immeasuriibly more pleasant.* This was chloroform. It had been investigated some time before by Dr. Glover, and it was recommended to Dr. Simpson by IVIr. ^yaldie of Liverpool ; moreover, inhalation of the fumes of that solu- tion of it in alcohol which is known by the name of chloric ether had been tried some time before by Mr. Jacob Bell; but undoubtedly the merit of establishing the anmsthetic power of chloroform, as a matter- of-fact, belongs to Dr. Simpson. Chemical History.—Chloroform is a terchloride of a hypotheticfil base, termed Eormyle, which consists of two atoms of carbon, and one of hydrogen. Hence the symbolic designation of chloroform is Cg I1,C1.,. Itwas discovered by Soubeirau in 1831, byLiebigin 1832, and by Mr. Samuel Guthrie of Socket’s Harbour, New York, in the same year ;T its real nature w.as .ascert.aincd by Dumas and Peligot in 183.5. It is obtained by distilling rectified spirit with water, and chloride of lime, in the proportions of four pounds of powdered chloride of lime, twelve pounds of water, and twelve Huid ounces of rectified spirit. These are • Vide Miller’s Principles of Surgery, 2nd edit. p. 75G. t Cogswell, Lancet, 1847, vol. ii. p. 631 ; Waldio, ib. p. 687.