514 ENLARGED PROSTATE. done is to introduce the catheter once or twice a day, so that the bladder may be completely emptied. The instrument will meet with an obstruction just at the entrance of the bladder, occasioned partly bj' irregularity of the urethra, partly by the projection of the third lobe. To avoid the latter, the Instrument (commonly called prostate catheter) should be long, and have its point well turned up. In in- troducing it, the point should be made to glide as close as possible round the pubes, and the handle should be well depressed as it is entering the bladder, in order that the point may ride over the pro- jection. The finger also should be introduced into the rectum to guide it. The best catheter, if it can be used, is a small gum, which has been kept a long while on an iron wire of considerable curve; but a silver one of proper shape is more easy of introduction. If the bladder has been long distended to the utmost, and the kid- nej's have become organically diseased in consecpience, the sudden withdrawal of all the urine will be liable to be followed by irretriev- able sinking. The urine should therefore be drawn off in small quantities at a time, and the strength be well supported with tonics, wine, and plenty of nutriment. IV. Complete Retention of Urine from enlargement of the prostate. In this case, if there are inflammatoiy s3-mptoms, cupping from the perinaeum and the hip-bath are indicated. The catheter should be passed if possible, and when passed it should be retained, because the bladder does not regain its contractility for two or three days, and the frequent introduction of the instrument would be irri- tating. If, however, the catheter cannot be passed by the natural route, it should be thrust through the projecting part of the gland, so as to make a new passage into the bladder (or perhaps one of Stafford’s lancetkd stilctics may be advantageously employed for that purpose). But if this cannot be done, the last resource is Puncture of the Bladder above the Pubes. This is easih- performed by making a small incision through the linea alba just above the pubes, and then thrusting a long trocar and canula down- wards and backwards into the bladder, where it is not covered by the peritonmum. The canula must be retained, and the patient be kept on his back to prevent extravasation ; and no time should be lost in restoring the natural passage. V. Calculi of the prostate are composed,according to Dr. G. Bird, like other calcidous concretions on mucous membranes, of phosphate of lime mixed with triple i)hosphate, and are fonned in the cells and ducts of the gland. They cause obscure irritation of the neck of the bladder, and difficulty of'micturition. They may perhaps be felt by the finger in the rectum. Sometimes it may be possible to remove some of them with the urethral forceps—or if there are many con- tained in one cyst, to cut upon them from the perinamm ; but in general the onlv thing to be done is, to keep the urethra well dilated with bougies, so as to favour their spontaneous escape. A remark- able prosUitic stone, nearly five inches long, was removed by Dr.