442 LARYNQOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. in sudden emergencies, but the latter most readily admits of the removal of foreign bodies, and is generally chosen in cases of suffoca- tion from disease. Laryngolomy is performed by cutting at once, through the crico- thyroid membrane, which may be felt as a soft depression, an inch below the jtomumi Adami. Tracheotomy is thus performed : The head being thrown back, an incision, an inch and a half to two inches long, must be made exactly in the median line from the cricoid cartilage to the top of the sternum. The skin, superficial fascia, and fat,are then divided; the sternohyoid muscles are separated with the point of the knife ; the loose cellular tissue and veins are cleared from the front of the trachea with the fingers or handle of the scalpel ; the thj^roid gland, if in the wa}', is pushed up; then the patient being told to swallow, the surgeon seizes the moment, and whilst the trachea is stretched, sticks in his knife, with a slight jerk,* at the bottom of the wound, and carries it upwards, so as to divide three or four of its rings. The operator must take great care to keep in the middle line, and must be verj' cautious not to cut downwards at the bottom of the wound, for fear of the large veins. Haemorrhage may be arrested, if arterial, by the ligature ; if venous, by nicely adapted pressure ; which must be kept up wdth the point of the fingers if nothing else suffices. As soon as an opening is made, the foreign body is usually expelled with a strong gust of air ; but if not, it must be searched for with a probe, and be removed by forceps or by a blunt hook. If there is any difficulty, the plan may be tried, which has recently been practised with success, of turning the patient with his head downwards, in order to let the foreign substance fall through the rima glottidis; and it may be remarked that as soon as an artificial passage is made for the patient to breathe through, the great irritability of the natural aperture subsides, so that it permits the body to pass. The wound may be closed by plaster when bleed- ing has ceased, but not before. If the operation were performed for the relief of dyspnoea, a conical curved tube should be introduced for the patient to breathe through, 'v' i From its shape, it fits tightly into ”V———\ the aperture, and prevents the en- \ trance of blood into the trachea. It should be of such a size, as Trous- seau has remarked, that the air may pass through it in respiration without any whistling noise.f When * The trocar is, as Mr. Fergusson justly observes, a most clumsy and ineffi- cient instrument for opening the trachea; which being an clastic tube, yields and bends before the pressure necc.ssai-y to introduce the point of it. The author once saw a surgeon fruitlessly endeavour to use it; and he seemed in great danger either of running it through both trachea and (esophagus into the vertebr-TB, or else of letting it slip sideways into the jugular vein. t Trousseau do la Trachcotomio, L’Experionce, Nov. 5, 1840.