38 ACUTE INFLAMMATION. cessity for venesection, and its beneficial effects, will be greater in pro- portion as the tolerance is greater,—and that it may be indispensable if the organ affected is important to life, or to its enjoyment; whilst it might not be so if an equal degree of inflammation affected an unimportant part,—and tliat its good influence in inflammation of a vital organ will often be marked by a rise in the strength and fulness of the pulse. (3.) With regard to the q/" the cause: bleeding is not well borne when that is such as to produce great depression of the vital powers, as in the case of dissection wounds:—nor when the inflam- mation itself causes great depression, as in phlebitis;—nor in the case of an injury requiring great constitutional efforts for its restoration, as a compound fracture;—nor if the disease be advanced towards suppu- ration or gangrene. II. Purgatives.—In all cases of acute inflammation, except those in which the action of the medicine would disturb the diseased or injured part (as in wounds of the alimentary canal) the abdominal veins should be drained and the blood purified b}' efficient purgatives, such as gr. v—x of calomel at bed time, followed by F. 33, 34, or 35, &c. in the early morning, and repeated night after night till tarr}*, dark, offensive motions cease to come away; pausing, however, if the patient is much griped, or if scalding stools of clear(mucus or blood, with tenesmus are produced. F. 40 is a truly wonderful agent for lowering the pulse, and relieving acute inflammation. III. Direct Antiphlogistics.— Such, for want of a better name, we must call mercury and antinionj’’, from their effects in abating inflammation when the system is impregnated with them. {a) Mercury is chiefl}'^ advantageous in idiopathic inflammations of serous structures, with a tendency to adhesion ; such as iritis and peritonitis. But when the nature of the disease and state of the pulse demand blood-letting, mercury cannot be regarded as a substi- tute, but only as an auxiliary; and, if employed to the neglect of bleeding, will most likely do more hann than good.* The best form for its administration is calomel, of which from one to five grains may be given, at intervals of from two to six hours, till a sliyht affection of the mouth is manifested, which should be kept up by smaller doses if necessary; but all violent salivation is an evil. The calomel should be combined with opium F. 62, to prevent it from purging. (6) Tar- tar Emetic i& another direct antiphlogistic; it may be administered in doses of grain, with each dose of calomel and opium, or may be given by itself after the manner detailed in the Appendix F. 67. IV. Diuretics and Diaphoretics.— (a) Colchicum is a remedy most useful in goutj' and rheumatic affections. It seems to have the power of freeing the system from excess of lithic acid. (6) Nitre and tlie other salines, as in F. 58, may also be given with great advan- • Vide Art. Calomel by the Author, in the Cycl. Tract. Surgery.