nrPERJEMIA. 27 2. passive or venous. To the first the name determination of blood, or active conriestioii, to the second the name passive congestion, is com- monly given. 1. Active determination of blood is a process wherein more blood is attracted to some particular organ, .and circulated through it more r.apidly th.an usual. It is necessary to many natur.al and benefici.al actions; as the enlargement of the womb in pregnancy, and of the breasts after delivery. It is equ.ally necessary to many morbid actions; it forms one of the first .and most palpable effects of infl.aramation ; it is witnessed in blushing; in the condition of the blood-vessels of the intestines in malignant cholera ; in headaches and a|)^)lectic attacks from excitement; and in the immense afflux of blood to the uteras, and consequent haemorrhage from ov.ari.an excitement. 2. Passive congestion signifies a stagnation of blood in a part, espe- cially in its veins. It m.ay be a consequence of mechanical obstacle to the return of blood; or of atony and w.ant of vital contractility in the capillaries, especially if they have been previously subject to great distention or excitement. It is evidenced by a sense of weight .and aching pain, .and is very liable to lead to serous effusion, and to ulcer- ation or gangrene. There are two c.auses of peculiar force in producing local accumu- lations of blood. One is, ment.al emotion, the effects of which in directing a torrent of blood to the uterus are well known; whilst it is not less true that the act of fixing the attention strongly on any organ whatever, in either sex, is sufficient to derange its circulation. The other is, impurity of blood. Let the blood be impure from any cause whatever, from the presence of bile, ure.a, or lithic acid, or even let it be deficient in its proper constituents, and local congestions are sure to occur. The headaches that accompany bili.ary disorder, and the serous effusions which follow Bright’s disease, are examples. The treatment of these cases must comprise the purification of the blood : the removal of mental c.auses; the loc.al abstraction of blood ; the application of cold ; and in passive cases of stimulants and bandages. II. Nervous Pain.—As all redness is not inflammation, so neither is .all pain. Pain may arise from muscular spasms or cramp, or from some diseased condition of the nerves, or of the nervous centres, with- out the existence of the least inflammation. Such pain, nervous pain, as it is commonly called, may often be known by its capri- ciousness; by its coming and going without apparent cause, or with no other cause th.an the patient’s mind being directed to it. It is often intermitting and periodical. It is often relieved by measures that would aggravate inflammation, such as stimulants, pressure, and fric- tion; and almost infallibly aggravated by leeches, blisters, and other remedies that would relieve inflamination if it existed. It is often intense in proportion to the anaemic and debilitated condition of the patient. It is often intense out of all proportion to heat, swelling, .and redness, even if they are present at all. It m.ay last for weeks or months without being followed by any of the changes of structure