283 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. the shoulder, or by passing a jack-towel over the shoulder and fixing it to the opposite corner of the bed; then the arm is raised from the side, and drawn straight up bj’’ the head, till the bone is thus elevated into its socket. 5. By the knee in Die. cixilla. The patient being seated in a chair, the surgeon places one of his knees in the axilla, resting the foot on the chair. He then puts one hand on the shoulder to fix the scapula, and with the other depresses the elbow over his knee. The dislocation forwards may be reduced by the heel in the axilla or bj'- extension with the jack-towel or pulley. But the extension must be made in a direction downwards and backwards. For the dis- location backwards, extension should be made forwards. The partial dislocation forwards may be reduced by simple extension. After reduction a pad should be placed in the axilla, and the arm and shoulder be supported for some days with a figure of 8 bandage, a few turns of which should confine the arm to the trunk. Warm fomentations—perhaps leeches—and subsequently frictions, will relieve the pain and swelling. The more weak and flabbj' the patient, or the oftener the dislocation has occurred, the longer will confinement be necessary, in order to allow of a complete consolidation of the ruptiued ligament. In fact, when the dislocation has occurred more than twice, an apparatus consisting of a clavicle bandage, with a broad band round the head of the humerus, should be worn for some months, so as to re- strain the motions of the joint. It has been before directed that this and all other dislocations should be reduced as soon as possible after the injury. If the reduc- tion has been delajmd till the muscles have fi.xed the part, and the patient is robust, it may be necessary to bleed or administer tartar emetic or chloroform, and to make a long, slow, and gentle, but unremitting extension by the pulleys. When the extension has been continued some time, the surgeon may gently rotate the luub by the fore-arm, or bft the head of the bone. If the dislocation has lasted some time, there will be still greater necessity for a tedious operation. Sir A. Cooper’s opinion is, that a reduction ought not to be attempted after three months. But the criterion which Mr. B. Cooper has proposed is a better one; and that is, the degree in which the arm has been exercised and the amount of useful motion which it has acquired in its new situation; for, in proportion as the head of the bone has formed for itself a new socket, so most likely will the old socket have become unfit for its reception again. There are numerous instances on record, of the most disastrous and even fatal results that have ensued from attempts at reduction at a later period; the integuments and muscles have been lacerated; abscess has formed, and been followed by anchylosis of the joint; nay, even the whole side has been palsied from injury to the cervical vertebra.-, and the axillary artery has been torn across. Injuries of the shoulder-joint are liable to be followed by various obstinate and intractable affections. Sometimes the deltoid muscle