407 CHRONIC INFLAJIMATION. surface. In the second stage, the membrane is thickened and flocculent; and occasionally covered with cheesy, tuberculous, or fibro-calcareous concretions ; but the morbid change most frequently observed consists of fibrous bands, which are sometimes numerous enough to occupy nearly the whole of the cavity. In some instances they connect the inner surface of the membrana tympani to the inner wall of the t3’'mpanic cavity ; or to the incus and stapes ; but by far most frequentl_y they extend from the crura of the stapes to the adjoining wall of the tympanum, so that this bone is, as it were, completely enveloped in a fog of adhesions. In the third stage, the membrana tympani is ulcerated; the ossicles discharged, and the whole middle ear disorganized.* Causes.—This diseased state may be caused by any of the circum- stances that either predispose to, or actually produce, congestion and inflammation of mucous membranes. Thus it is a very frequent se- quel of the exanthemata, and especiallj'- of scarlatina ; it maj', like cachectic diseases of the eye, be caused by unwholesome diet, and resi- dence in close uuventilated apartments ; it may further be the result of local irritation, such as inflammations in the throat, currents of cold air, or previous disease, or improper surgical applications to the meatus. Besides these, there are two sources of deafness which are so common, that they ought to be especially noticed. One is cold-bathing ; and the other, the habit of blowing the nose violentl}", which often causes a _most painful strain on all parts in the middle ear, and sometimes bursts the membrana tj'mpani. Symptoms.—These unfortunately are generally so slight, that the patient gives no heed to them, till in process of time he finds himself altogether deaf in one or both ears. A slight looolly sensation, or oc- casional noises or ringing, with variable obtuseness of hearing, and slight aching, are the most frequent. Treatment.—Mr. Tojmbee’s researches show that ver}’’ few cases of deafness can be considered as nervous, since by far the majoritj' depend on a thickened condition of the tympanic membrane ; and that, there- fore, instead of empirically resorting to stimulants, the most rational plan is to use those local and constitutional remedies which are known to give relief in other cases of chronic inflammation. Pure air, e.xercise, wanu-batliing, regular diet, remedies calculated to improve the general health and the condition of the digestive organs, should always be V used. The medicine most likely to be of service, is mercury, given in verj^ small doses for a long period ; such as F. 8G, 87, 0'3, &c. Any diseased state of the meatus should be remedied by the measures spoken of in the preceding section. If there is any uneasiness about the ear, from two to four leeches should be applied repeatedly to the * As a proof of the sm.all number of persons whose hearing is quite perfect, Mr. Toynbee fouiui in 120 dissections, 20 heaithy; 20 in the first stage of tym- panic (U.seaso ; 65 in the .second stage, and 6 in tiio tiiird stage. Mr. Toynbee iias since (October 1846) dis.sected neariy 1000 ears. Tiie author has to thank him for much valuabie information.