INFLAMMATION OP THE BRAIN. 338 which up to tile occurrence of the inflammation has been going on well,—to use the words of Pott, “ the sore loses its florid complexion and granulated surface, and becomes pale, flabby, glassy, and painful; instead of good matter, a thin gleet is discharged from it; the lint with which it is dressed sticks to all parts of it; and the pericranium, instead of adhering firmly to the bone, separates all round from it to some distance from its edges.” The bone, moreover, becomes white, dry, and bloodless ; because the nutrient vessels that naturally pass from the dura-mater to the skull are cut off, in consequence of the in- flammation or incipient suppuration of that membrane. If there be no wound, the scalp will present a puffy, circumscribed, indolent tu- mour at the seat of injury, on incising which the pericranium is found detached. If the dura-mater is exposed, it at first appears of “ a dull, slough}^ cast, and smeared over with something glutinous,” and sub- sequently is covered with matter. Pathology.—It is believed that if the membranes and surface of the brain be inflamed, there will be greater pain, and a.greater dis- position to delirium and convulsion ; *—but that in inflammation of the cerebral substance, there will be an early tendency to coma and palsy. Prognosis will be unfavourable if the malady has advanced to its second stage, and is not promptly relieved bj' repletion. Treatment.—Upon the first appearance of the symptoms, bleed- ing should be performed (perhaps from the temporal artery or jugular vein), to the approach of faintness ; the bowels should be most freely opened, and the head be shaved and kept cool and elevated. If they do not yield, leeches should be freely employed, and from two to six grains of calomel, with a quarter of a grain of tartar emetic (not enough to cause vomiting), should he given every two or three hours. The remedies for the third stage are blisters to the head or its vicinity; mustard cataplasms to the feet; terebinthinate or stimulant enemata; and trephining, if suppuration is indicated by symptoms of compres- sion, or by the above-mentioned state of the wound. The trephine should be large, and if the matter be seated between the dura-mater and skull, it may afford relief, although it rarely does. Abscess in the brain, or that form of disorganisation which is called softening or ramollissejnent,f may be very remote consequences of in- jury, not occurring perhaps for years. Their symptoms are very ob- scure and insidious. Occasional headache; general loss of health and strength ; impairment of the memory or other mental faculties; quick pulse, and furred tongue ; disorder of the eyes or ears ; sense of con- * Dr. Marshall Hall a.scertaincd that lacerations of tho dura-mater of frogs gave rise to spasmodic motions of the eye, eyelids, and head; probably through tho reflex influence of the smail branches of the fifth neive which supply that membrane. t Softening of tho brain may arise from two opposite causes; viz., from atrophy, oT insufficient supply of arterial blood; or from inflammation; in the latter case, as mentioned at p. 56, the nerve tubes are broken up and mixed with pus and exudation corpuscles.