134 BURNS AND SCALDS. The pain is philosophically said to consist of a perpetuation of the original sense of burning. 2. In the second class there is a higher degree of inflammation, causing the cutis to exude serum and form vesicles. These in trivial cases dry up and heal; but if the injury to the cutis has been suffl- cient to cause it to suppurate, they will be succeeded by obstinate ulcers. The pain of these burns is much more severe than in the for- mer class, especially if the vesicles have been torn, and the surface of the true skin exposed to the air and the contact of foreign bodies. The formation and increase of vesicles may often be prevented b3' proper treatment. They generally appear immediately after the accident, although cases are recorded in which they did not rise for three days. 3. The third class of burns is attended with mortification from disorganization of structure. These are, for obvious reasons, not attended with so much pain as the last class; but in every other respect they are infinitel,y more serious, and the sores which remain after the separation of the sloughs, are often months or years in healing. Constitutional Syjiptoms.—The constitutional symptoms of severe burns are those of great collapse. The surface is pale, the extremities cold, the pulse quick and feeble;—there are violent and repeated shiverings, and the patient often complains most urgently of cold. In some fatal cases these symptoms are soon succeeded bj' laborious breathing, coma, and death ;—in others, dissolution is pre- ceded by a period of imperfect reaction, with delirium, sharp jerking pulse, and the other sjmiptoms indicative of prostraiion u-ith cxciie- meut. Prognosis.—The danger of burns must be estimated by their ex- tent, their severity, their situation, tlie age and constitution of the patient, and by the symptoms actuallj’’ present. Extensive burns, even of small severitj’, are alwaj's dangerous; and especiallj' if vesi- cation has occurred early, and the cuticle has been stripped off. Bums on the trunk are always more dangerous than those of an equal extent on the extremities ; and it need not be said that infancy and old age will be alike unfavourable. 'V\'ith regard to the symptoms actually present, it may be noticed, that although the severe pain, such as is common in burns of the second class, is in itself a source of great danger, from its tendency’ to exhaust the vital powers, still that it is on the whole a favourable sj'inptom, if the injurj- is extensive; and that the want of it indicates urgent peril. “ The early subsidence of complaint,” observes Mr. Travers, “ unwillingness to be disturbed, apathj' approaching to stupor, as if the scale of sensibility had shrunk below the point of pain, is invariably a fatal sj-mptom. Constant shi- vering is an ill omen. The failure of the pulse and consequent cold- ness of the extremities, with a livid hue of the transparent skin of the cheeks and lips from congestion in the capillaries, drowsiness, with occasional muscular twitchings, are sure prognostics of death.” Sub- sidence of swelling is an equally ominous symptom.