ERYSIPELAS. 65 stages, and coma in the latter, from the irritation propagated to the brain and its membranes. Terminations.—The cutaneous eiysipulas may terminate, 1, in resolution, leaving nothing but desquamation of the cuticle with slight ffidema (this mild form is often called ; 2, but more frequentl}' it produces large huUce or vesicles from effusion of serum under the cuticle;—and these dry into scabs, which peel off, and leave the cutis either healed, or superficially ulcerated. 3. Sometimes, however, it is followed by small abscesses. The ordinary duration is from seven to fourteen days. Before its termination, however, this variety of erysipelas some- times assumes a lingering erratic character, wandering progressively along the skin, and spreading in one direction as it fades in another. Sometimes it disappears entirely from one part, and flies by metasta- sis to a distant one; and sometimes it quits the skin suddenly, and some internal organ is affected with an inflammation having the same constitutional characters. The jMet/monous or cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas may terminate as favourably as the simple varietj';—but it more generally leads to un- healthy suppuration and slougiiing of the cellular tissue;—in which case the swelling becomes flaccid and quaggy ;—patches of the skin become purple, and covered with livid vesications, and these patches slough, giving exit to a thin sanious pus, and to flakes of disorganized cellular tissue. And not only the subcutaneous, but the intemiuscular tissue and fascire may slough, rendering the limb useless, even if the patient escape with his life. Moreover, after a very severe attack of erysipelas, the cellular tissue is apt to be left in a hardened, brawny state, through infiltration with h’mph. Prognosis.—This must be guarded if the patient is old, enfeebled, and habitually intempemte;—if the constitutional affection is low and tj’phoid;—if the epidemic is of a low cast; if the malady is situated on the head or throat, and there is coma or great dyspnoea,—or if the ery- sipelas is of the phlegmonous vai'iety, :ind a large portion of the cellu- lar tissue and skin is on the point of sloughing. Mr. Nunneley observes, that if the frequencj' of the pulse is not abated by the seventh day, the prognosis will be unfavourable, even although the local symptoms appear to be improving. The return of suppuration in ulcers, and the formation of abscesses, arc most favourable signs. Causes.—The causes which render the constitution liable to ery- sipelatous inflammation are threefold. First, intemperance, fatigue, close confinement in foul air, and whatever other causes ai'e capable of imtating the digestive organs, exhausting the nervous system, and vitiating the blood. The origin of erysipelas in the close air of hospi- tals is unhappily too notorious to need mention. Secondly, the disease may be epidemic ; that is, may be produced by certain states of the atmosphere at large, affecting several people in the same district simul- taneously. Thirdly, it may be propagated by contagion or infection, by means of emanations from patients affected with it. F