CHAPTER XIII. OF THE DISEASES.AND INJURIES OF THE EAR. SECTION I.—EXAMINATION OF THE EAR. I. Deafness is so common and so distressing an infirmity, and when of long standing is so incurable, that we cannot too strongly urge all medical practitioners to make themselves familiar with the treatment of diseases of the ear. They should also encourage their patients to apply to them for the relief of slight and mcipimt ailments in this organ, instead of allowing them to go on till the}' become per- ' manently deaf, and then letting them fruitlessly seek relief from igno- ‘ rant and mercenary quacks. II. Examination of the Meatus.—Every surgeon ought to accustom himself to examine the external meatus, and to become fami- , liar with its appearances, both in health and in disease. We may premise that this canal is about an inch long ; that its course is for- wards and inwards, but that it presents a slight curve with the convexity upwards, and is narrowest about its middle. It may be said to have three divisions, which differ from one another in structure and appearance. In the first or outermost part of the tube, the pas- sage is “ formed almost entirely of pure fibro-cartilage covered with its perichondrium,” and lined by the same fine dermal sti-ucture that 1 invests the auricle.* “ Here the skin is studded over with fine white ] hairs pointing inwards, and also with nu^ierous sebaceous glands or i follicles; it is here also more loosely connected to the cartilage than at any other part of the tube, and this accounts Tor the fact that small circumscribed abscesses occur in this part of the canal more frequently than in any other. The next portion of the tube may be called the glandular division, because in it are seated the ceruminous glands that • secrete the ear-wax; this is about three-eighths of an inch long, and is ; the narrowest portion of the tube.” Its walls have less of cartilage, i and more of dense fibrous membrane in their composition, and its ; dermal lining is finer. When in a healthy state it is generally coated with wax, which forms a ring, coating this part of the meatus. This part of the passage is, according to Mr. Wilde, the usual seat of poly- pous excrescences, which probably have their origin in the ceruminous ' glands. The third and last portion of the passage is slightly dilated, and contained principally within the bony part of the meatus. It can only be i seen satisfactorily by means of a speculum, of which instrument several j sorts are sold, and some of them intended to dilate the ear. But since it is only the outer extremity of the meatus that can be dilated, * Tho quotations are from Mr. Wilde’s excellent paper on Oton-luea, in the Dublin Journ. Med. Sc., Jan. 1844.