DISEASES OP THE BREAST. 558 cloths soaked in a combination of sp. caniphorm, sp. tenuioris aa fSiiiss; liq. plumbi f^i; intermitting these applications when the skin becomes sore. But in most cases the breast must be amputated, .and if the whole of it is removed, the disease will not return. XI. SciRRHUS generally commences as a hard, circumscribed, move- able swelling in some p.art of the breast. In its e.arly stages, it is not often tender or painful, and perhaps is only discovered by accident. After a few weeks or months, however, it increases in size, and be- comes tubercular in its outline; and now becomes affected with pa- roxj'sms of violent lancinating pain, which arc said to be most apt to occur .about the period of menstruation. Not unfrequently a little bloody fluid is discharged from the nipple. The cellular tissue .and fat about the gland often become atrophied, so that the diseased breast is smaller than the sound one, and the nipple is generally drawn in, and the skin .around it puckered like a cicatrix. The disease ma}% how- ever, commence, not as a distinct tuberous deposit forming a tumour in the breast, but as a general infiltration of the whole organ, which becomes a hard, heavy, tuberculated mass. But in either case the progress and termination of this disease are such as have been alreadj' often described. The tumour after a time invades the entire gl.and, which adheres to the skin, and to the muscle beneath, so as to become fixed and immove.able. Then it ulcerates and forms a cancer. The glands in the axilla, and sometimes those in the neck, enlarge, and compress the .axillary veins, and the arm swells .and becomes oedemat- ous from the obstruction to its circulation. The ribs and pleura be- come scirrhous; w.ater is effused into the chest; the breathing becomes difficult; the p.atient suffers from rheumatic pains in the bones, .and at last dies. The rapidity of this disease is most uncert.ain. But Sir A. Cooper used to say that it was generally from two to three years in attaining its full growth; and from six months to two years after- v/.ards in destroying life. Diaf/nosis.—In well marked cases this disease cannot be mistaken. The stony-hard, moveable swelling in its e.arly stage, or the shrunken gland and retracted nipple subsequently; the age about forty; the leaden, s.allow complexion ; the weakness and c.achexia; the lanci- nating pain ; and the circumstance (which verj' often happens) that the patient’s mother or sisters have suffered from cancer, all distin- guish it. But there are several circumst.ances which may render the diagnosis doubtful. 1. In the first pl.ace the scirrhous deposit m.aybe .attended with more or less common inflammatory p.ain, tenderness, and swelling, so that it loses its characteristic hardness, and becomes blended in its outline with the surrounding tissues, and exactly resem- bles the swelling arising from chronic inflammation. 2. It m.ay occur in a young female between twenty and thirty. 3. The effect of remedies m.ay be deceitful, for thej' m.ay, perhaps, diminish the in- flammatory swelling around, and so cause a temporary decrease of the tumour, though not of its scirrhous portion. Traalment.—The local and genenal treatment of scirrhus of the