132 TREATMENT OF GEN-SIIOT WOUNDS. loss; to assure him of his safety, and to administer small quantities of wine or cordials, and apply wannth ; at the same time providing by the torniquet against immediate peril from bleeding. And in this wa}', by waiting an hour or two, the agitation of mind and body will be appeased, and the operation may be performed without further delay. But if the pain be so intolerable that the patient eagerlj' de- mands to be relieved from his sufterings, the request should be imme- diately complied with ; for the shock of the operation will be infinitely less detrimental than the endurance of such torments. Care should alwaj^s be taken, before amputating, to ascertain the U'hole amount of injury ; for it would be of little use to cut off a leg, if the patient was shot through the liver. If, from any unavoidable circumstances, the favourable period has elapsed, and violent fever and inflammation have set in, still the oper- ation must be done without delay in some few cases, to give the patient a chance of surviving. But, in the majority, free antiphlo- gistic measures should be first employed ; and then, “ On the very day,” says Hennen, “that a subsidence of fever is effectually an- nounced by a free and healthy suppuration, by the abatement of local inflammation ; by a restoration of the skin to its functions, demonstrated by returning coolness and elasticity, particularly on the affected limb ; we should proceed to perform our amputation on those patients in whom no hope of an ultimate recovery without it can be entertained.” * Rules for Amputation.— 1. When a limb has been completely knocked off by a cannon-ball, the stump must be amputated ; and if the bones be splintered and shattered up to the next joint, or if the woimd be so near the joint that mischief is to be apprehended, the operation must be performed above it. 2. Gun-shot fracture of the femur always requires amputation, and so docs division of both femoral artery and vein, or of the sciatic nerve. But it is not necessary for considerable destruction of the soft parts, provided the bone, vessels, and nerves are intact, and that there are conveniences for the cure. 3. Injuries of the knee, or ankle-joints, or extensive fracture of the tibia, with division of the arteries, require it, but not mere laceration of the calf. 4. The arm should not be amputated for almost any mushet-shot in- jury. If the head of the humerus is shattered, it should, if possible, be sawn off;—if the elbow is shot through, it may be cut out ;—if the humerus is splintered, the splinters must be extracted ; and the fore- ann will bear so much fracturing and cutting, that it should not be condemned without very great injury both to bones and arteries. But extensive injury of the wrist-joint, or of the humerus, with divi- sion of the vessels, generally requires the operation. ^ • Hennen, op. cit. p. 250 ; Guthrie, Clin. Lect. Med. Gaz., March 10th, 1838. Sir G. Ballingail’s Militaiy Surgeiy, p. 219, et seq.