45 n^MORRHAGE. which hydrocele, some cases of hydrothorax, hydrarctluis, and hydro- cephalus, afford examples. 3rdly, The fibrine may slowlj' separate from the serum and solidify, causing a doughy indolent thickening of the cellular tissue, the treatment of which will be mentioned at the end of the next chapter. 4thly, The scrum effused may dis- tend the cellular tissue, so as to interfere with the nutrition of the skin ; which may be remedied by making punctures with a needle, and allowing it to ooze gradually out. Of the manner in which serous effusion may prove fatal to life, in the oedema glottidis, and hydro- cephalus, it is not our purport to speak at present. CEde.ma is the name given to the swelling caused by the presence of serum, whether inflammatory or dropsical, in the cellular tissue. It is a soft, inelastic, diffused swelling, which pits on pressure, that is, retains for a time the pit or mark made by the pressure of the finger. If oedematous limbs become inflamed from any cause, they are exceed- ingly liable to ulcerate or slough. The causes of dropsical oedema, which most concern the surgeon, are the pressure of cancerous, aneurismal, and other tumours on the great veins of a limb, and obstruction of the veins bj' phlebtis. A raised position, moderate support bj' bandages, and punctures made with a common sewing needle, to let the serum exude, are the most rational palliative measures. CHAPTER VII. OF H.EMORRIIAGE. Ha:morrhage, like serous effusion, maj’’be a consequence, Istlv, of inflammation or excitement; ‘2ndly, of obstruction to the return of venous blood ; and flrdly, of structural weakness of the blood-vessels and thinness of the blood, as in scurvy and putrid fevers. The first form is called active, tlie last two passive. (1.) Active haimorrhupe consists in an escape of arterial blood from the capillaries, when ruptured by the distention caused by acute in- flammation or violent excitement; and more or less of it doubt- less occurs in every case of violent inflammation. It occurs diuing the formation of abscess in the cellular tissue and in the liver. But the most common seat of inflammatory hmmorrhage is mucous membrane, especially that of the lungs. The principal instances of it which fall under the surgeon’s care, are epistaxis or luemor- rhage fi’om the nose ; haemorrhois or hmmorrhage from the rectum ; hajinorrhage from the urethra during gonorrhcea; and from granulat- ing wounds. It has also been known to oc'M? from the conjunctiva: and more rarely from the pleura, pericardium, and peritonmuni. Sometimes the blood issues, not from the surface of the inflamed