DISEASES OP THE BONES. 217 grumous matter, varying in colour from that of dark blood, to a red- dish light liver colour.” Under the microscope the Haversian canals are found enormously dilated, and the osseous cells or corpuscles greatly diminished. As the disease advances, the affected bones seem to be reduced to mere thin shells, filled in some cases with serum, in others with fat; whilst in some instances all bony matter whatever has disappeared, and the periosteum has been left as a cylinder filled with a dark fatty substance of the consistence of liver. The disease is evidently constitutional, and usually affects almost every bone in the skeleton, although two instances have been reported to Mr. Solly, by Mr. Hodgson, of Birmingham, in which it was con- fined to the lower extremity; and in one of these amputation was per- formed. At the commencement of it, the patient is observed to be out of health, emaciated, complaining of violent tichings in the bones, and of very great feebleness and profuse perspirations. Then from a fall or some other slight injury, a bone breaks;—perhaps it unites again— but afterwards bone after bone breaks from the slightest cause ; the weakness increases, and the patient becomes bedridden ; and now, as the bones bend or break from the slightest influences, the chest and limbs become distorted to an almost inconceivable degree, and death at last occurs from exhaustion, or from the obstacle which the distorted ribs oppose to the action of the lungs. Of^he causes of this disease, nothing is known, and of its real nature, just as little. It is evidently, however, as Mr. Solly justly observes, not a mere atrophy. The extreme vascularity of the bones in the earlier stages of the affection, and the severe pain attending it, sufficiently show that their vital condition is seriously, though inex- plicably altered. That the urine is loaded with phosphate of lime, which in one of hlr. Solly’s cases formed a renal calculus, is an in- teresting and intelligible point in the history' of this disease. No available treatment is known, beyond common measures for supporting the strength and allaying pain.* SECTIO.V in. — OF NEURAEGIA IN BONE. The bones, like other parts, are subject to that severe and continuous pain, unaccompanied by inflammation, or other organic cliange, which is known by the name neuralgia. The patients are generally women, the part affected the condjdes of the femur, or the head of the tibia or humerus. The characters which distinguish neuralgic pain have been already briefly described (p. 27) and will be further treated of in the Chapter on Diseases of the Nerves; but one of tlie most useful practical marks of distinction is, the utter impossibility of procuring relief from those measures, which commonly relieve inflammation. • Vide a remarkable case of softness of the bones, by Mr. H. Tliompson, Med. Obs. and Injuries, vol. v. 1776; (the urine deposited a copious mortar-like sediment); and an interesting paper by Mr. Solly, containing the details of two cases, Med. Cbir. Trans, vol. xxvii.