.‘522 SUPPRESSION OP URINE. IV. Treatment of Chronic Kidney Disease.—On this sub- ject we can hut give a few general hints. When there is much tenderness in the loins, a moderate quantity of blood may he taken by cupping. Blisters or issues, or plasters of the emp. ammoniac! c. hydrarg., or of belladonna, may also be of service. The skin should be excited by warm baths and friction ; and flannel should be con- stantlj’' worn. It will be necessary to provide for the free action of the liver and bowels, and to keep up the secretion of the kidneys, if deficient, by the milder sorts of diuretics ; such as small doses of neutral salts ; the infusions of buchu, and uva ursi, of carrot- seed, or of the root of parsley. The tartrate or citrate of iron will be of great service. The diet generally should be plain and nutritious, and all acescent and indigestible substances should be care- fully avoided. V. ILe.maturia, ov Bloody Urine.—The seat of the haemorrhage may be either the kidneys, or the prostate or bladder. 1. Haemor- rhage from the kidney is generally caused by the irritation of renal calculi, or by blows on the loins; but it may also depend on a diseased state of the whole system, as in typhus fever or scurvy. The blood is rarelj’ in large quantity, and it is equally dilfused through the urine ; although perhaps there may be some long shreds of coagulum formed in the ureter. If the urine is boiled, the blood will coagulate, and leave the fluid of its natural colour. 2. Hmmorrhage from the prostate or bladder may be caused by the rude introduction of instruments, or by the irritation of stone ; or by the existence of an ulcer or fungoid tumour, of which in fact it is often the earliest manifestation. When the blood is derived from the blad- der, some portion of it often flows pure after the urine is discharged, and it is in much gre.ater quantity, and often in larger and more irre- gular clots than when derived from the kidneys; moreover, the pain in the back, and other signs of renal irritation that accompany bleed- ing from the kidney, will not be present. ^ Treatment.—When haemorrhage from the kidneys is attended with inflammatory symptoms, bleeding and the acetate of lead are indi- cated ; when with symptoms of debility, the dilute sulphuric acid, alum, tinct. ferri muriatis, or gallic acid, in doses of gr. v. in a draught with mucilage and a little henbane; and when with symptoms of gout, alkalis and colchicum are indicated. Cold may be applied to the loins and hips by means of bladders of ice. In hmmorrhage from the bladder a catheter should be passed and be retained, in order to pre- vent both accumulation of blood in the bladder, and straining efforts at micturition. If the hajmorrhage is obstinate, the bladder may be injected with cold water containing a scruple of alum to each pint; and if much blood have coagulated in the bladder, it will be necessary to break it down by repeated injections of water. VI. Suppression of Urine, ischuria renalis.—When the kid- neys have been long abused by inordinate indulgence in strong drink, and are falling into disease,—or when they have become diseased