176 GONORRHCEA, N N easily remove their alarm by telling them that it is a common idio- pathic disorder of children, and not a consequence of any improper treatment. Leucorrhcea or fluor alius, a mucous catarrh from the" vagina, accom- panying a general state of debility ; as well as muco-purulent dis- charges arising from a diseased condition of the utenis, may be dis- tinguished from gonorrhoea by the absence of heat or pain in micturi- tion ; and by the pain in the back, pallid countenance, irregular menstruation, and signs of exhaustion and debility which generally accompany them. An examination with the speculum must decide the question. Prophylactic Treatment.—A patient who has been exposed to the chances of venereal infection would do well to wash out the front part of the urethra with a syringeful of some astringent lotion ; and, if any fissures or excoriations are perceived, to touch them with lunar caustic, and apply a bit of dry lint. Curative Treatment.—The remedies for gonorrhoea are three- fold; first antiphlogistic measures, to get rid of inflammation; second- ly, certain medicines containing a volatile oil, which has a peculiar sanatory influence on the inflamed mucous membranes ; and, thirdly, injections to wash away the discharge, and alter the action of the in- flamed surface. These different remedies are to be combined in va- rious degrees in different cases, and at different periods of the disease, recollecting always that gonorrhrea is a disorder which tends naturally to wear itself out; and that it is not to be cut short by mere anti- phlogistic treatment, although its duration may be abridged, and its severity lessened. Of the first stage.— If the patient apply during the very first stage, when the discharge is just appearing, and before acute symptoms have come on, the disease may almost infallibly be cut short, by emploj'ing the plan recommended by Ricord. Let him inject the urethra regu- larly once in four hours, with a solution of two grains of nitrate of silver to eight ounces of distilled water ; let this be repeated twelve times, desisting, however, sooner if the discharge is rendered thin find bloody, which is the ordinary effect of the nitrate. Then let a weak injection of sulphate of zinc, or alum be substituted, and be continued till the discharge ceases. At the same time the 0 patient should take a mild aperient; and after it, a dose of copaiba or cubebs, three times daily ; he should avoid exercise, fermented liquors, salt, spice, coffee, and stimulants of every kind; he should take no supper; and should continue his abstemious regimen for a week or ten days after all trace of the discharge has disappeared. The penis should be wrapped in a piece of rag dipped in lukewarm or cold water. The manner of injecting is of no small consequence, as the efficacy of the lotion depends entirely on its application to the whole of the diseased surface ; and, as Dr. Graves observes, the ordinari" opinion that gonorrhcea is limited to the anterior extremity of the urethra, is