445 SCALDS OP THE GLOTTIS.—DROWNING. expired very soon afterwards; and on a post mortem examination it was found that there was nothing the matter with the larynx, but that a large aneurism existed on the arch of the aorta. What was the use, it was justly said, of cutting the throat of a man who was dying of aneurism ? The house-surgeon, however, was not so entirely to blame, as he was then considered, because, as is now very well known, tumours about the aortic arch may produce spasm of the glottis, by irritating the recurrent nerves. But now that this fact is known, every surgeon should carefully scrutinise the chest, in obscure cases of dyspnoea, to see whether it arise from this cause, because if it does, no good can be gained by any operation. The same may be said of that spasm of the glottis, which often affects children during their teething ; and of cases in which the symptoms of laryngitis are mimicked by hysteria.* VIII. Scalds op the Glottis, through swallowing boiling water or corrosive fluids, produce the ordinary symptoms of laryngitis— suffocative cough, and dyspnoea. Treatment.—Leeches, ice to the throat, calomel in large doses, so as rapidly to affect the system, and tracheotomy if required. IX. Hanging may destroy life in three ways. 1. By dislocat- ing the neck. 2. By compressing the trachea, and suspending respiration. 3. By compressing the jugular veins, and inducing apoplexy. Treatment.—Artificial respiration, bleeding from the jugular vein if the face be turgid, dashing cold water on the face and chest, and a current of galvanism passed from the nape of the neck to the pit of the stomach, so as to excite the diaphragm.-f X. Drowning, Treatment of.—If respiration has ceased, it should instantly be commenced artificially; at the same time the body should be wiped drj% and be assiduously rubbed with hot cloths. Hot bricks and bottles of hot water should be put into the axillm, between the thighs, and to the feet ; the head should be raised, the nostrils irri- tated with a feather, or with the fumes of hartshorn, and a warm enema of turpentine may be thrown up. Galvanism should be re- sorted to, if respiration is not quickly restored. It need scarcely be said that enemata of that filthy narcotic, tobacco, must not be thought of. As soon as the patient can swallow, he should have some weak wine and water ; and soon afterwards an emetic of mustard, to clear the stomach of the water which he has swallowed, and to restore the circulation by the impetus of vomiting. After some hours he will suffer from severe headache and fever, which must be relieved by bleeding or leeching, purgatives, and other remedies, according to the exigencies of the case. A case is related in which life was restored by the most persevering friction, which w.ts kept up for eight hours * Many very v.-ilaablo observations on those points will bo found in Dr. Watson’s Lectures on tlie Practice of Physic. t For tlie manner of applying galvanism in these cases refer to Part V. Chap. II.