CntOROFORM. CIG Dr. Snow’s inhaler consists of a metallic vessel which contains the chloroform, within another vessel containing cold water, so that the vapour may be raised at an equal temperature ; from this a flexible tube carries the vapour mixed with air to a face-piece or mask, the invention of Dr. Sibson, which incloses the mouth and nose and has an edge lined with thin lead, so that it can be bent and adapted to the shape of any face. This has an inspirator}^ valve, and an expiratory, both made of vulcanized India rubber; by opening the expiratory valve more or less during inspiration, the air is allowed access to the inte- rior of the mask, and thus can be mixed with the chloroform vapour in any proportion.* Another simpler but less perfect apparatus consists of the same kind of mask, with one respiratory aperture within which is placed a piece of blotting paper soaked with twenty minims (equal to 130 drops) of chloroform which must be renewed from time to time, and another expiratory aperture, by removing the valve from which the free ingress of air is permitted.+ If no special apparatus is used, a napkin may be folded in the shape of a hollow cone, its apex be soaked with twenty minims of chloroform, and this be put over the patient’s nose and mouth. The inconvenience of allowing the liquid to touch the face, or get into the mouth must be remembered. In what- ever way administered the patient should be in the recumbent posture, and the greatest quiet be observed. It is a good plan to let him be put to sleep before he is removed from his bed to the operating table. It is better that the stomach should be empty. The patient should be directed to expand his chest and draw in the vapour full)'. There need be no hurry in the first stage of the process, because complete insensibility to pain, and absence of involuntary movement and wincing are more safely obtained after the vapour has had time to penneate all the capillaries and benumb all the peripheral nerves. Dr. Snow makes the most valuable observation, that insensibility to pain cannot be obtained in a very rupid manner without a dangerous degree of narcotism of the nervous centres. In order, therefore, to obtain as much of the former with as little as possible of the latter, the vapour should be given in a leisurely manner; the expiratory valve being at first drawn tiside sufficiently to allow plenty of air to mix with the vapour, and being gradually closed. The inhalation should occupy three or four minutes before the third degree of narcotism is estal)- lished; and then it will usually be but three minutes more before the patient evinces any sign of feeling the knife. Excitement or violence, is_ no cause of ahmm: cpiitc the rever.se ; it shows that the vapour -shoulcl’he administered more freely. The inhalation should be con- tinued till the patient is narcotized in the third degree, and so soon, says Dr. Snow, as the eyelid can be raised and the conjunctira One advantage of Dr. Snow’s apparatus is, that it confines tlie inhalation of the vapour to tlie patient, and docs not permit it to evaporate and be wa.stcd in tlie air of the apartment. The writer has soon more than one nurse made sick hy it when given from a handkerchief. t The apimratus are made by iilatthews, of Portugal Street, Lincoln’s-Inn.