378 CATARACT. be cataract, there will be seen an opake body of a gray, bluish-white, or amber-colour behind the pupil. The patient usuallj' gives as his history, that his vision has become gradually impaired; that objects appear as if surrounded with a mist, or as if a cloud was interposed between them and the eye ; and that the sight is better in the even- ing, or when the back is turned to the window; or after the .application of belladonna,—obviously because the pupil, being dilated under those circumstances, permits more light to pass through that part of the lens which is yet tr.ansp<arent. In the most confinned cases, the patient is able to distinguish d.ay from night. There is also the catoptric test,—that is, the mode of examining the eye by the reflection of light, which was proposed by M. Sanson. When a lighted taper is moved before the eye of a health}' person, three im.ages of it may be observed. 1st. An erect image, that moves upw.ards when the candle is moved upwards, and that is produced by reflection from the surface of the cornea. 2ndly. Another erect im.age, produced by reflection from the anterior surface of the crystal- line lens, which also moves upwards when the candle is moved up- wards ; and, 3rdly. A very small inverted im.age, that is reflected from the posterior surface of the crystalline lens, and that moves downw.ards when the candle is raised upwards. Now, in cataract, this inverted image is from the first rendered indistinct, and soon abolished; and the deep erect one is soon afterw.ards abobshed also. Diagnosis will be spoken of under Amaurosis and Glaucoma. Causes.—Cataract (especially of the capsule) is sometimes attri- butable to inflammation, and may be caused in a short space of time by wounds or other injuries of the lens. But the ordinary cataract of the old seems to be a mere effect of impaired nutrition. Varieties.—1. Hard c.atar.ict. This is the form that is met with in elderly people.* There is an appreciable interval between the lens and iris. 2. Radiated cataract. In this fonn, the opacity com- mences in streaks at the circumference, which, as the diseiise advances, slowly converge towards the centre. In this variety there is of * The author is indebted to Mr. H. Walton for the following note. “It is common to .say that in this form of cataract, the lens is shrunken, hard, and / amber-coloured. First as to the shrinking. The fact is, that in the aged, especi- I .ally when there is cataract, the outer portion of the lens is readily removed, and leaves the central or harder part. Again, when cataracts are preserved, ' little more than the central portion is seen, for the soft exterior separates, making turbid the liquid in which they are pickled. Moreover in e.xtraction, when the lens is escaping through the cornea, the soft i).art is not unfrequently left behind, and the nucleus only gets out. Next as to the hardness,—Cataract is merdy opacity pervadiny a lens, but the opacity has no power to create hard- ness, and the cataract of an old persoriTs not harder than the lens of that person would have been in a transparent state. Hence we never see hard cataract before that time of life when the lens begins to be more dense. Liistly, The amber colour of catartict in the aged is caused by opacity affecting an amber- coloured lens. After thirty the lens begins to be coloured, and gets a deeper hue till it is like a piece of amber.”