31 GENERAL PHENOMENA OF INFLAMMATION. in others. In parts which have no natural outlet, it is more disposed to produce adhesion than suppuration. But in the mucous mem- branes, it tends to produce suppuration before adhesion; because sup- puration is but a trifling evil compared with the danger that would ensue if the mucous canals were closed by adhesive matter, from the slight inflammations to which they are perpetually subject.* Yet serous cavities may suppurate ; and mucous membranes be covered with an e-vudation of lymph ; as in croup, diarrhoea tubularis, and dysmenorhoea. Predisposing Causes.—The predisposing causes of inflammation may bo constitutional or local. The constitutional predisposing causes, are plethora, the sanguine temperament, excess in food drink and bodily exertion ; exposure to' noxious miasmata ; and disorder of the liver, kidneys, skin, and other organs whose office it is to purify the blood. When inflammation arises from these causes alone, it is said to be spontaneous or idiopathic, or constitutional. The local predisposing causes are chiefly over-stimulation or exertion be}'ond power ; besides previous disease, and original weakness of organization. Exciting Causes.—The exciting causes may be divided into two classes. 1. Those which act primarily on the striccture of a part,— as mechanical and chemical injuries of all sorts. 2. Those which act primarily on its functions and vital endoiuincnts,—as over-exertion ;— and such poisons as cantliarides, which affect living matters only. The former class act direetbj; that is, they inffame the part which they are applied to : the latter class may act indirectly; just as cold applied to the feet causes inflammation of the lungs. The former also act immediately ; whilst some of the latter may take some time (which is called the stage of incubation) to produce their effects. Lastly, causes may be common or specific;—the former being those which are daily met with, and which can act on all constitutions ;—the latter being unable to affect all constitutions, being peculiar in their origin, and producing a modified inflammation, with a specific train of consequences. The vaccine virus may be an e.xample. Theorv of Infla.'umation.—It is not compatible with the scope of this work to give a detailed account of the various theories that have been invented respecting the proximate cause or essential nature of inflammation. Of the older writers, some attributed it to a lentor or viscidity of the blood ;—others to an error loci, tliat is, an obstruction of the capillaries by the entrance of globules too large to pass through them. Cullen supposed that it consisted in spasm of the extreme vessels. Hunter ascribed it to an increased action ;—^Vilson Philip and Hastings to a debility ; — IIenle to a paralysis ; and Mr. J. W. Earle to an obstruction of the capillaries. In assenting to these theories it was of course taken for granted that the capillaries are the essential seal of inflammation, and that it is • See John Hunter's observations on Erj-sipelatous Inflammation. In Pal- mer's Edition of lii.s work.s, vol. iii.