227 FRACTURE. bone most frequently affected, and is often fractured in consequence of the atrophy of its proper texture. The deposit does not attain suffi- cient size to form a tumour. VIII. Melanosis and Gelatiniform Cancer have also been occasionally found in bone. IX. Osteoid Tumour {Malignant, or Ivory Exostosis). This rare disease consists of a bony tumour, either, says Mr. Stanley, of a yellow ivory-like texture, or of a dull white chalk-like substance, which can be scraped or rubbed into a powder. This osseous sub- stance is united to a soft fibrous tissue, which forms its envelope and fills its interstices. It is generally situated in the lower part of the femur, or head of the tibia, and it generally forms an oblong, rather than a globular tumour. This disease is attended with morbid cachexia, like the cancerous ; it tends to implicate the adjacent ab- sorbent glands, which become converted into similar bony tumours; the lungs are likewise invaded with the same morbid growth. The chief points which distinguish the malignant from the non- malignant tumours, are, their greater rapidity of growth; the greater pain with which they are accompanied; their greater softness at some points than at others; their tendency to involve and become blended with the skin and other adjacent tissues (a sure characteristic of malignant growths); and the existence of the malignant cachexia. But as it is often impossible to distinguish these two classes of tumours from each other, or from inflammatory enlargements, it is satisfactory to know that the early treatment of them all is the same. The same measures that will cure the curable affections will check the incurable. tThey are, repeated leeching, iodine paint, mercurial alteratives, sarsaparilla, with the iodide of potassium, and change of air and other general tonics. If these measures fail, the only course is amputation or extirpation; which may be per- formed with confidence of a cure as regards the non-malignant growths. But the extirpation of truly malignant growths, to be effectual, should be very earlj', and very complete, a partiaf removal being, to use Mr. Liston’s words, an “ unmeaning and utterly useless cruelty.” • SECTION VI.—OF FRACTURE GENERALLY. The term fracture, with its varieties, simple and compound, trans- verse, oblique, and comminuted, requires no definition. Exciting Causes.—The exciting causes of fracture are two ; me- chanical violence, and muscular action. Mechanical violence may be direct or indirect. It is said to be direct, when it produces a fracture at the part to which it is actually applied; as in the instance of fracture of the skull from a violent blow. It is said to be indirect, when a force is applied to two parts of a bone, which gives way * Vide Walslie, op. cit.; Liston on Tumours of Mouth and Jaws, Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xx.; Stanley on Jliseascs of Bone, [). 141.