FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 359 often great variation in the symptoms in the same case; for there may be great suffering at one time, and scarcely any inconvenience at another. V'll. Acute Inflammation of the sac is known by great redness, swelling, pain, and tenderness at the side of the nose, implicating the eye, and attended with fever and headache. If it be not soon relieved, the sac will suppurate and burst. VIII. Fistula Lachrymalis signifies an ugly fistulous aperture at the inner corner of the eye, communicating with the lachrymal sac. It is the ordinary consequence of the three preceding affections if un- relieved, and may be said to have five stages. First, it begins with ohslruclion of the nasal duct; the most prominent sj'mptom of which is a perpetual watering of the eye. Secondly', this is followed by in- Jkimmution; which, thirdly, gives rise to ai.vcess; and this, fourthly, by its bursting causes the fistulous aperture from which the name of the affection is derived; whilst, fifthly', in old neglected cases, the lachrymal or inferior turbinated ho7w inap become carious; but this is not very common. The fistulous aperture is generally crowded with fungous granulations, and the skin around is red and thickened from the perpetual irritation of the tears that escape from it. Sometimes there is considerable loss of skin. Treatment.—Acute inflammation of the sac must be treated by leeches, purgatives, and cold lotions or poultices. If the pain increase in severity, and become throbbing, the sac should be opened in the manner to be presently described. Chronic inflammation of the sac should be treated by an occasional leech to the inside of the nostril ; by steaming the nose so as to soothe and bring the whole track of mucous membrane into a healthier state,* and by' the strictest attention to the general health, and especially to tlie functions of the skin and of the digestive organs. When the sac becomes distended, the patient should endeavour to press its contents down into the nose; and he should also frequently draw in his breath strongly whilst his mouth and nostrils are closed, so as to draw the tears down the duct by the pressure of the atmosphere. The secre- tions of the eyelids should be corrected with citrine ointment (F. 16'8), and a few drops of some astringent collyrium (F. 140) should be put twice a day into the inner angle of the eye, so that it may be absorbed by the puncta, and carried into the sac. By these means the thickening of the duct may perhaps be removed, or at all events the patient may go on pretty comfortably. Treatment by the style.—But if the retention of the tears in the sac causes a constant irritability of the eye, or if there is a fistulous orifice between the sac and the check, measures should be adopted to restore the obstructed duct. If there is no aperture, the sac should be opened by a narrow knife; introducing it just below the tendo ocidi, and carrying it downwards and outwards for one-fifth of an inch. Vincent, op. cit. p. 212.