152 DISSECTION WOUNDS. purulent;—the muscular fibres, of a dirty-yellow colour, and softened; — the axillary glands enlarged, but not suppurating;—tlie axillary artery and nerves healthy; — but the veins (especially the smaller branches) dirty red, and softened ;—the brachial and median-cephalic veins of the wounded arm, slightly red;—but the fore-arm healthy, and 710 connexion ivhatever to be discovered betiveen the abrasion on the finger aiul the morbid parts in the axilla ; —the pleura of the affected side greatly inflamed; — the lung covered with lymph, and much serum effused into the cavity of the chest. Diagnosis.—1. Fi-oin acute rheumatism this disease may be dis- tinguished by the suddenness of its invasion ; by the precedence of the constitutional symptoms ; by their low typhoid type ; by the de- pression of the pulse; by the pain being confined at first to the axilla; by the characters of the ensuing tumefaction; and by a knowledge of the exciting causes.* 2. From inflammation of the Lymphatics, which is a verv' frequent consequence of festering scratches and poisoned wounds, whether re- ceived in dissection or not, this more serious affection may be dis- tinguished by noticing, that in inflammation of the Ijunphatics, the disease begins at the luounded part,—which swells and becomes throb- bing and painful;—the inflammation extends in red lines up the arm to the lymphatics above the elbow, and in the axilla; and the consti- tutional symptoms are at first those of ir/fia/iimatory fever, although they may become irritative and typhoid, if tlie patient be exhausted bj' pain, or if matter be confined. Moreover, there are the following broad features of distinction: The constitutional symptoms/iwcetfe the local, in the difi'use cellular wjlammation ; but follo7v them in mfiam- mation of the lymphatics. In the fomner disease, the local affection depends upon the constitutional; in the latter it is the reverse. Prognosis.—Of the cases on record, nearh^ two-thirds have proved fatal. The danger will be proportionate to the violence of the consti- tutional sjmiptmns;—the quickness of pulse, anxiety of mind, and prostration of strength. The cases in which inflammation begins at the injured part arc much less dangerous than those in which it appears remote from it, or in several places simultaneously. Pathology.—Some persons deny that this disease originates in the absorption of poison, and attrihute it to mere local irritation acting on an unhealthy constitution.+ Now it is, on the one hand, perfectly true, that severe diffuse cellular inflammation, or inflamma- tion of the lymphatics, may be produced by the slightest conceivable injury to a vitiated habit. And it is equally certain that most medi- cal students and practitioners are in a bad state of health, and conse- quently predisposed to suffer from such accidents. But there are rea- * Pr. Law, in a valuable paper in the Pub. Mod. Journal, Nov. 1839, gives several cases of glanders and dill'use cellular inflannnation mistaken for acute rlieuinati.sm. t Abernethy’s Lectures, Renshaw's edition, p. 132. Lizar.s' Rractical Surgeiy, Edinburgh, 1838, p. 71. See the section of difused absassis in Part II.