208 DISEASES AND INJURIES OP “ to gentlemen of mature years, who, forgetting these, join in the sports of youth as they were wont to do ; suddenly they suppose that some one has inflicted a blow on the leg from behind—their dancing is arrested, the foot cannot be extended, and the nature of the case is forthwith evident to the most careless observer.”* The symptoms of this accident are, sudden pain, or sometimes an audible snap, loss of the motion peculiar to the muscle, and a depres- sion at the ruptured part, which may be felt with the fingers. The reparation is effected by the effusion and organization of lymph, which forms a callus like that of broken bone. Treatment.—The main point is to keep the injured muscle in a state of constant rest and relaxation,+ so that the severed ends may be in close approximation, and to prevent any violent extension till the union is firmly consolidated. Pain and inflammation must be counteracted by leeches, and cold or warm lotions. When the tendo Achillis, or the gastrocnemius muscle is ruptured, the knee ma}’- be kept bent by a string passing from the heel of the slipper to a bandage round the thigh. For ruptures of the extensors of the thigh, the limb must be placed in the same position as in fracture of the patella. If the biceps is ruptured, the elbow must be kept bent to its utmost; if the tendons about the wrist or fingers, the forearm must be confined bj' a splint. After three or four weeks of this rest, the surgeon may use passive motion; that is, may bend and extend the joints of the injured limb with his hands several times successivel3^ But the patient must be cautious in using the muscle for a long time; and (if it be the tendo Achillis) must walk with a high-heeled shoe for two or three months; (.so that the recent callus may not be stretched and lengthened, which [would cause peniianent weakness. V. Strains.—A strain signifies a violent stretching of tendinous or ligamentous parts, with or without rupture of some of their fibres. It produces instant severe pain, often attended with faintness; and great tumefaction and ecchjTnosis; with subsequent weakness and stiffness. If the part is not kept at rest, or if the knee or some other large joint is affected, there will be great pain, inflammation, and fever, that may lead to serious or even fatal results. Treatment.—The most essential measure is perfect rest; and to en- sure this, if the case is at all serious, the part must be confined by a pasteboard splint. Warm fomentations generally give more relief than cold lotions; but in this, as in similar cases, the paticDPs feelings are the safest criterion. If inflammation runs high, or a large joint is affected, leeches, or bleeding, and general antiphlogistic measures, must be adopted. Subsequently the indications arc to procure absorp- tion of thickening and extravasation, by friction with stimulating • Liston’s Practical Surgery, 3rd ed. A cn.so of ruptured rectus femoris is related in the Med. Gaz., Oct. 10th, 1841. It did not unite. t Muscles are to bo relaxed by putting them into a position the reverse of that which they occupy when in gi'catest action—not by merely approximating their attachments. Vincent, p. 11.