256 FRACTURES OF THE LEG. Similar one below itthe two are then approximated by longitudinal straps, or bandages, passing between them. But the best apparatus conceivable is that in- vented by Mr. Lons- dale; for it causes no circular constriction of the limb whatever. If the parts can be kept in complete apposition, the union may be bonj''; —if not, it will be liga- mentous; it is, however, a great object to have the ligament as short as possible. In five or six weeks the patient should sit on the edge of a high table, and swing his leg backwards and for- wards. Lonijitudinal or com- minuted fracture of this bone is always caused by direct violence, and attended with great in- flammation,—which be- ing subdued, the parts must be kept in their places by bandages and pasteboard splints. / Compound fracture will generally require amputation; unless the icound I is very small, the skin is not injured enough to slough or ulcerate, and I the constitution very good. XIII. Fractures of the Leg.—The ordinary fractures of the leg may be readily distinguished by careful e.xamination. There are several methods of treatment. (1.) Uy die common splints.—The injured leg being laid on its outer side, the fracture is reduced by extension from the knee and ankle. Then a many-tailed bandage is applied by some surgeons after the man- ner represented in the cut. This bandage is easily made thus:—take a piece of roller, long enough to reach from the knee to the foot, and to overlap about one-third of the leg besides. Cut another roller into pieces, and lay them across the first at right angle.s, in such a manner • This cut represents an old fracture of the patella, with wide separation of the fragments. The patient fractured the bone twice. The first lime he was treated with bandages, <fec., to bring the broken parts together, and they united well. The second time, the limb was laid in an easy position without bandages. The result is here shown:—Tlio upper fragment high up in front of the femur ; the lower one down in front of the tibia ; the power of extending the joint lost. When the knee is bent, as in the above cut, the condyles of the femur are seen with the skin tightly stretched over them.