MALIGNANT DISEASES OP THE EYE. 3.9.0 may be checked ; if not malignant, m.ay be cured.* E.\tirpation is scarce!V ever deemed advisable in children, 1, because the disease, if really malignant, is sure to return ; 2, because there are sundry scrofulous tumours which cannot be distinguished from the malignant, and which either disappear or give no trouble. The diagnosis may be considered doubtful, if such tumours follow an evident wound or injury ; if there be scrofulous disease in other parts, and if the eye shrink and become atrophic. IV. Extirpation op the Eve.—The operator first passes a liga- ture through the anterior part of the globe in order to steady it, or else seizes it with a hook or vulsellum, and slits up the external com- missure of the lids. Then he raises the upper eyelid, cuts through the fold of conjunctiva reflected from it to the eye, and dissects back- wards, so as to separate all the soft parts from the roof of the orbit. The same process is repe.ated below and on the sides—taking care to cut close to the bone, and to remove the lachrymal gland. Then a curved knife is introduced on the inner side to cut through the optic nerve and origin of the muscles, and so the eye is detached. The patient must then be put to bed, with a cloth dipped in cold water laid over the face. If there is very great haemorrhage from the ophthalmic artciy, it maj' be restrained by pressure with a piece of lint dipped in a strong infusion of matico—which should be removed as soon as it is suppressed ; but it is better not to stuff the orbit with lint if it can be avoided. After staphyloma or any other disease which has rendered the eye- ball shrunken and sightless, if the patient objects to the trouble and expense of an artificial eye, it may be convenient to divide the levator p.alpebrai, in order that the lids may remain permanently closed. This may be effected by making a transverse incision in the upper eyelid just below the orbit, and seizing the belly of the muscle as far back as possible. Then a piece should be snipped out of it with scissors. V. Excanthis is an enlargement of the caruncula lachrymalis, and semilunar fold of the conjunctiva, which may be easily extirpated by curved scissors. Sometimes, however, it is the seat of a malignant growth, becoming dull red, very hard, and subject to lancinating pain; and finally degenerating into a cancerous ulcer. Sir A. Cooper thinks that in this case extirpation is inadraissible.'t' * See a clinical lecture by Mr. Jjawronco, Med. Gaz. N. S. vol. v. p. 14. + Vide Lectures by Professor Green, in Sir A. Cooper’s Lecture.',, Rcnsliaw's edit.; Lawrence on Diseases aiui on Venereal Diseases of tlio Kye; Copland Diet. Arl. Kye, Amaurosis, Aic.; Midillemore on Disicases of tlic Eye; GuUirie on tlie Operative Surgery of the Kye ; Morgan on tlie Eye, by Krance, Loud. 184S ; Tyrrell on tlie Kye, Lond. 1840; and especially Mackenzie on Diseases of tlie Eye, 3rd edit. Lond. 1840, a work of tlie greatest eriuiition and practical utility. Mucli information and amuseincnt may also lie derived from Hull on tlie .Morbid Kye, Lond. 1840, wliicli contains mucli .sterling sense under a vein of plea.santry and atl'ectation of pedantry. See idso Mackmurdo’s Lectures on Diseases of tlie Eye, Lancet, 1850 ; and Mr. Haynes Walton's Lectures in the Medical Times, 1850.