294 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. the foot be pointed, nor be turned to either side. The remaining treatment is the same as that of compound fracture; and the rules wliich are given as to the necessity of amputation, are the same in both cases. XI. Dislocations op the Foot.—The most important of these are the dislocations of the astragalus, which may be separated from its connexion with the os naviculare and os calcis in various ways."' Sometimes it is thrown inwards, so as to rest on the inner surface of the os calcis; and in this case, there appears an unusual projection below the inner ankle, and a corresponding depression below the outer one, and the whole foot seems displaced outwards. Sometimes it is thrown outwards; and then the foot seems to be displaced inwards. If these dislocations are simple, reduction should be immediately attempted by extension, and the pullej's and chloroform will be needed ; although the attempt will often be unsuccessful. The tendo Achillis ma}' be divided, if it seems the chief obstacle to reduction. If the dislocation is compound, and the bone cannot be replaced, or if it is much shattered, it may be dissected out. In these two dislo- cations, the astragalus is separated from the other tarsal bones, but preserves its connexions with the tibia and fibula, so that they may be regarded merely as varieties of dislocation of the ankle joint, in which the tibia and fibula carry the astragalus with them in their dis- placement. It may, however, be completely sliot out from under the tibia, and lie under the skin of the outer side of the foot. And lastly, it may in the same way be dislocated backwards ; projecting behind the ankle joint, and pusliing the tendo Achillis backwards. This dis- placement, if only partial, will be extremely difficult to rectify, and, if complete, it will most likclj' be impossible.* Besides these, the five anterior tarsal bones may be dislocated from the os calcis and astragalus. The cuneiform bones may be dislocated upwards from the navicular; the metatarsal bones from the tarsal, and the toes from the metatarsal. In any of these cases, the proper posi- tion of the parts must be restored as much as possible by pressure and extension, and be preserved liy bandages; but reduction will often be very difficult, if not impossible. ♦ For cases of the dislocation of the .astragalus backwards, see a paper bj’ Mr. B. Phillips, Med. Gaz. vol. xiv. p. 596, and Fergusson’s Practical Surgery. See also Mr. Cross’s wise of dislocation of astragalus reduced by dividing tlie tendo Achillis, quoted in R.anking, vol. ix. p. 140; Campbell de Morgan, B. Phillips, I.onsdale and others, Lancet, 1849, vol. ii. p. 618.