104 SCIRRHUS. result is scirrhus ; if the cells, medullary sarcoma ; if the fluid abound and be collected into loculi or little cysts, colloid. Melanosis, though not strictly a malignant growth, may be conveniently treated of in this chapter, because it often accompanies them. Cancroid and Semi-maliynant Groicths.—The name cancroid is given by Hughes Bennett to growths which resemble malignant growths in most of their coarser physical properties, so that they must neces- sarily be confounded with them, unless the microscope be employed, which reveals a difference of internal structure. The name semi- malignant is given to some diseases w'hich differ from the malignant in the circumstance that the morbid changes are purely local; and that, although incurable or destructive to life if left to themselves, they do not attack several organs at a time, and if removed thoroughly do not return. The growths most resembling cancer are, 1 st, the common fibrous tumor, which may be said to he cancer, minus its cells. This, both in the form of the indurated rings surrounding mucous canals in stricture, and in the form of sarcomatous, neuromatous, and desmoid tumours is often confounded with scirrhus. 2ndly. Cartilaginous growths, or enchondronia. 3rdly. Growths whose essential consti- tuent is a morbid production of epithelium ; as the wart}’' and fungous e.vcrescences on the skin and mucous membrane, known by the name of chimney-sweeper’s cancer, warty cancer of the lip, cauliflower ex- crescence of the womb, &c., and certain ulcers on the tongue and lip. These are the growths particularly distinguished as semi-malignant. Besides these, wens, fatty tumours, and tubercular glands may in cer- tain cases be confounded with true malignant growths.* SECTION II.—OP SCIRRHUS. Symptoms.—Scirrhus begins usually as a rounded and peculiarly hard tumour, subject to occasional fits of severe lancinating pain. Anatomical Characters.—Scirrhus is hard, heav}', and almost cartilaginous in consistence. In bulk it is rarely larger than an orange. It cuts crisply, with a creaking sound like a potato or unripe Tliere are many points in the natural histor}- of cancerous growths wliich still are involved in obscurity. Tliere are iiiany tumours of which it may bo said that thoyare truly cancerous from the first, and whose nature, structure, and destiny can be predicted with certainty. Others there are of which it can with equal certainty be aliirmed, that they are nut cancerous, and never will be. But there is an intonnediato class, of which it cannot be predicated with cer- tainty, whether they now contain cancerous structure, or if not now, whether after a lapse of years they may not acquire cancerous structure and go through the destructive changes of that disease. Again, with regard to the epithelial growths, which Hughes Bennett separates from cancer, he is obliged to confe.ss that the lymphatic glands in the vicinity “ are subject to the same epithelial form of growth as affects the tongue, face, or other similar structures.” In other words, that instead of being strictly local they may contaminate the adjoining lymphatic glands.