DISEASES OP THE PENIS. 540 contracted cicatrices of ulcers. Besides the obstniction which it occa- sions to the functions of the organ, it prevents the washing away of the secretions from the corona glandis, and thus renders the patient liable to frequent balanitis and gleets, and in advanced age to cancer of the penis ; and it is a source of great trouble if he happens to be affected with the venereal dis- ease.* Treatment. — A director should be introduced about half an inch be- tween the glans and prepuce, and a curved, narrow, pointed bistoury be passed alongitsgroove,b3'which the prepuce should be slit up. At the same time, if the edge of the prepuce is thickened, it should be seized between the blades of a for- ceps, and be shaved off. Then four or five fine sutures should be passed through the margin of the incision, so as to draw together the edge of the skin and that of the mucous lining of the prepuce, that thej^ may unite by adhesion. If this is not done, the skin and mucous membrane will be separated by the swelling that follows the operation, and the wound, instead of being a mere line, will be half an inch wide. II. Paraphymosi.s is said to exist when a tight prepuce is pulled back over the glans, constricting it, and causing it to swell. Treatment.—The surgeon first compresses the glans with the fingers of one hand, so as to squeeze the blood out of it, then pushes it back with that hand, whilst he draws the prepuce forwards with the other. If this fails, the constricting part of the prepuce must be divided with a curved pointed bistourj". III. Cancer of the Penis generally begins as a wartj' excres- cence or small pimple on the prepuce; but sometimes by an infiltra- tion of the substance of the glans, which is converted into an indurated mass. It almost invariabl}' occurs to elderly persons, who have had phymosis. The disease follows the ordinary course of cancer. After a • “ In the .lowish circumcision the child is VTapped in n cloth and laid across the thighs of a sitting man, by whom lie is properly held. The circumcisor grasps the prepuce with the thumb and forefinger of his left hand, draws it forwards, and inserts it in the cleft of an instrument similar to a silver spatula. Then holding the prepuce .and raising the peni.s upright ho cuts off the fonner close to the plate with a single stroke of a button-ended knife. The circumcisor as quickly as possible seizes the inner fold of the prepuce with his thumb-nails, which have been specially cut for that ])urpose, and tears it immediately up to the corona gi.andis. Ho then spirts some water from his mouth upon the wound, takes the penis in his mouth, and sucks the blood out of it a few times. A stri]) of fine linen is then wound round the corona and the cut surfaces as a dressing, and the penis laid upon the pubes in a ring, to prevent its being touched.”—South's Chelius, vol. ii. p. 345.