518 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. palsy, from retention through stricture, is easy. The retention from palsy comes on suddenly, and there is no obstacle to the introduction of a catheter. A strong decoction of parictaria qffichialis; cantharides, ergot of rye, and tinct. ferri mur., are the remedies for simple palsy. V. Incontinence and Dribbling of Urine.—This is a sj-mptom that requires particular notice ; because in nine cases out of ten it happens, not because the patient cannot hold his water, but because he has retention of urine, either from stricture or enlarged prostate, or palsy of the bladder. For it must be noticed, that, in either of these cases, as soon as the bladder becomes full, a little urine begins to dribble away through the urethra—and besides the patient may per- haps be able to squeeze out a little by straining with his abdominal muscles, and may believe his bladder to be empty, although all the while it is enormously distended. No surgeon will fail to put his hand on the pubes when he sees the urine dribbling away. The obvious remedy is the catheter. VI. Hysterical Retention of Urine.—There is one form of palsj^ of the bladder which is not unfrequent in hysterical women, and which consists in a deficiency of volition rather than of power. They are not unable to empty the bladder if they try—but they are unable to try. These cases must be treated with purgatives, and fetid medi- cines, both internally and as enemata, F. 102. If the catheter is not employed, the patient will generally begin to make water as soon as she suffers much from distention; but the bladder must not be allowed to go unrelieved too long. VII. Puerile Incontinence.—Incontinence of urine during the night is common enough in delicate children; but the surgeon may be consulted on account of its continuing to an age at which such an in- linnity becomes very troublesome and degrading. The best plan of treatment is, to administer tonics; to rectif}' any disorder of digestion nr irritating quality of the urine ; to prevent the patient from sleeping on his back; to have him awakened at a certain hour, so that he may empty the bladder of his own accord; and to adopt some means of rendering the habit so disagreeable to him, that he may be induced to correct it by exercising that degree of volition which remains during sleep. Asafoetida glysters; nauseous medicines; and in the female cauterizing the orifice of the urethra with nitrate of silver, so that the flow of urine may cause severe smarting, are among the remedies worth adopting. Small doses of tincture of cantharides are also recommended. VIII. Fungus Haimatodes.—Thisform of malignant disease some- times affects the bladder, and generally commences in the mucous membrane near its neck. The ordinary symptoms, are frequent desire to make water; and uneasiness in the region of the bladder, aggra- vated after micturition, and often extending to the glans penis, peri- nanim, and groins. The urine is generally turbid, and deposits an adhesive mucus, and it is very frequently mixed with blood, in irregu-