THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, HEAD AND NECK. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. A PORTION OF THE HORIZONTAL RAMUS OF THE LOWER JAW HAS BEEN REMOVED IN ORDER TO The parotid gland (see also Parotid Region—Nos. 1 and 2) presents an external convex surface, triangular in outline, and it extends from the zygoma above almost to the angle of the jaw below, where it abuts against the posterior part of the submaxillary gland. It extends forwards for some distance upon the masseter muscle, and from the upper part of the anterior border the duct— Stenson's duct—arises. The duct bends round the anterior border of the masseter, and ends by piercing the buccinator muscle and the mucous membrane of the cheek at the level of the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The greater part of the submaxillary gland has been removed, leaving only the posterior part of the superficial portion of the gland, which is traversed by the facial artery, while the facial vein runs across its surface. With the true salivary gland tissue masses of lymphatic tissue are always found, lying cither around the salivary gland or embedded in its substance. The removal of the portion of the jaw Las exposed the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, where it joins the gum, and the sublingual salivary gland, lying immediately under the mucous membrane. The upper border of the gland is covered by a fold of mucous membrane, called the plica sublingualis, and the gland is in contact externally with the inner aspect of the jaw, and is supported below by the mylohyoid muscle. EXPOSE THE DEEP LYING STRUCTURES OF THIS REGION. The figures indicate— 1. Superficial temporal artery. 8. Lingual nerve. 13. Anterior belly of digastric 2. Temporal branches of facial nerve. 9. Under surface of tongue. muscle. 3. Parotid gland. 10. Mucous membrane of floor of 14. Mylohyoid muscle. 4. Duct of parotid. mouth, divided. 15. Submaxillary gland. 5. Zygomaticus major muscle. 11. Genio-hyoid muscle. 16. Facial vessels 6. Masseter muscle. 12. Sublingual gland. 17. Buccinator muscle, divided. 7. Orbicularis oris muscle, divided.