THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON. W.C. HEAD AND NECK. POSTERIOR TRIANGLE —No. 1. A PORTION OF THE CLAVICULAR HEAD OF THE STERNO-MASTOID MUSCLE HAS BEEN TURNED ASIDE TO EXPOSE THE TRIANGLE MORE COMPLETELY. The posterior triangle of the neck is a narrow triangular space bounded in front by the posterior boixler of the sterno-raastoid, and behind by the anterior border of the trapezius muscles while the base is formed by the middle third of the clavicle. The posterior belly of the digastric muscle divides the space into two parts, an upper called the occipital, and a lower called the supraclavicular or subclavian triangle. (See Front of the Neck—No. 2.) In the occipital triangle are found the occipital artery and the great occipital nerve for a short distance at the upper part, while, loAver down, the spinal accessory nerve crosses the space obliquely from in front down- wards and backwards. The splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulae, and scalenus medius and posticus muscles form the floor of this part of the space, and several important structures are related to them. The anterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves emerge in the interval between the scalenus medius and the scalenus anticus muscles, and the nerve to the rhomboid muscles and the upper roots of the nerve of Bell pierce the scalenus medius, and pass backwards, while the roots of the phrenic nerve are seen passing forwards on to the anterior surface of the scalenus anticus. The transversalis colli artery passes backwards across the neck under cover of the omo-hyoid muscle, and divides into its two terminal branches. The figures indicate:— Vessels and nerves. Muscles. 1. Sterno-mastoid. 12. Spinal accessory nerve. 2. Trapezius. 13. Cervical branch to subtrapezial plexus. 3. Splenius capitis. 14. Phrenic nerve. 4. Levator anguli scapula?. 15. Trunks of brachial plexus. 5. Scalenus medius and posticus. 16. Transversalis colli artery. 6. Scalenus anticus. 17. Internal jugular vein. 7. Omo-hyoid. 18. Axillary vessels and nerves. 8. Clavicular head of sterno-mastoid. 19. Posterior auricular vessels and lymphatic gland. 9. Great occipital nerve and occi- 20. Parotid gland.