THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH; T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, HEAD AND NECK. BACK OP NECK—No. 2. THE COMPLEXUS MUSCLE HAS BEEN" REFLECTED ON EACH SIDE, TO SHOW, ON THE RIGHT, THE SUBJACENT NERVES, AND, ON THE LEFT, THE MUSCLES WHICH BOUND THE SUB-OCCIPITAL TRIANGLE. The sub-occipital triangle is a, small space, bounded by the rectus capitis posticus major inter- nally, and by the superior and inferior oblique muscles externally. The rectus capitis posticus major passes from the spine of the axis vertebra to the occipital bone, into which it gains insertion along the outer part of the inferior curved line and the part of the bone which lies below it. The inferior oblique passes from the spine of the axis to the posterior tubercle of the transverse process of the atlas, while the superior oblique arises from the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the occipital bone in the interval betAveen the curved lines. The floor of the triangle is formed by the arch of the atlas vertebra and by the posterior occipito- atlantal ligament. The space thus bounded contains a portion of the vertebral artery and the posterior primary division of the first cervical or sub-occipital nerve. The rectus capitis posticus minor arises from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas and is inserted into the inner part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface between this and the foramen magnum. In the interval between the complexus muscle and the semispinalis colli are found the internal branches of the posterior primary divisions of 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th cervical nerves, which frequently anastomose with one another, give branches to the adjacent muscles, and terminate in the skin. Here also is found the profunda cervicis artery, anastomosing with the princeps cervicis branch of the occipital. Bones. 1. External occipital protuberance. 2. Atlas. 3. Spine of axis. 4. Transverse process of atlas. 5. Arch of atlas. Muscles. 6. Superior oblique. 7. Inferior oblique. 8. Rectus capitis posticus major. 9. Rectus capitis posticus minor. 10. Complexus. 11. Semispinalis colli. 12. Sterno-mastoid. 13. Splenius capitis. 14. Trachelo-mastoid. 15. Digastric. Nerves, etc. 16. Sub-occipital. 17. Great occipital. 18. Third occipital. 19. Fourth occipital and profunda cervicis artery. 20. Vertebral artery. 21. Occipital artery.