THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AND NECK- PHARYNX—No. 3. LATERAL RELATIONS OF THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE PHARYNX VIEWED FROM BEHIND. In relation to the side wall of the pharynx are found muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels as follows :— Muscles. The levator palati arises from the under aspect of the apex of the petrous temporal bone and from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and it passes downwards and inwards, crosses the upper order of the superior constrictor muscle, pierces the pharyngeal aponeurosis and enters the soft palate, in which most of its fibres become continuous with the muscle of'the opposite side. The tensor palati lies in front of this muscle. The palato-pharyngeus arises mainly from the soft palate and passes downwards and backwards in the posterior pillars of the fauces, to be inserted into the upper and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage. The stylo-pharyngeus arises from the inner side of the styloid process close to its root. It passes down- wards and enters the wall of the pharynx between the superior and middle constrictor muscles. The fibres spread out and are inserted mainly into the upper and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage. The glossopharyngeal nerve has an intimate relation to this muscle and winds round its lower border to gain the side wall of the pharynx. Vessels. The relatiqns of the side wall of the pharynx are of special importance in connection with operations on the tonsil. The internal carotid artery has been removed. It lay at some distance from the side wall, and is only in dangerous proximity when it is tortuous. The ascending pharyngeal artery has been cut short, and is not in so immediate relation as some other vessels, and especially the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery, which is seen ascending in contact with the superior constrictor muscle. It passes between the stylo-pharyngeus and the stylo-glossus muscles and then it turns inwards to the soft palate. The other vessel is the facial artery itself, especially when it is at all tortuous. As is well shown, this vessel at its origin is in very close relation to the lower part of the tonsil, and may be wounded in the removal of that structure. 1. Nasal septum. 2. Eustachian cushion. 3. Levator palati muscle. 4. Azygos uvula? muscle. 5. Palato-pharyngeus muscle. 6. Middle constrictor muscle. 7. Stylo-pharvngeus muscle. 8. Stylo-hyoid muscle. The figures indicate:— 9. Tensor palati muscle. 10. Inferior maxillary nerve. 11. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 12. Internal jugular vein. 13. External carotid, with origin of occipital artery from the outer and lingual aud facial arteries from the inner side. 14. Facial nerve (pin). 15. Inferior palatine artery. 16. Digastric muscle, and hypoglossal nerve (divided). 17. External pterygoid muscle. 18. Stylo-mastoid artery. 19. Ascending pharyngeal artery. 20. Tonsil. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, Z o z S > S 5 i X i Q. m