THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T^C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 25. DISSECTION TO SHOW THE CORPUS DENTATUM OF THE CEREBELLUM, THE CEREBELLAR PEDUNCLES AND THE LATERAL FILLET. Most of the upper surface of the right cerebellar hemisphere has been removed, together with the inferior peduncle and the lower crossed fibres of the middle peduncle, which spread out over the corpus dentatum. The superficial coating of the superior peduncle and of the lateral fillet has been scraped away. The corpus dentatum is a crumpled sheath of grey matter enclosing white matter, imbedded in the white core of the cerebellar hemisphere. Its anterior end presents a hilum or mouth from which proceeds the superior peduncle. The superior cerebellar peduncle arises mainly in the corpus dentatum. It also contains fibres from the cerebellar cortex, and part of Gowers' tract. Leaving the cerebellum it passes upwards, sinking deeper into the dorsal part of the pons and converging towards its fellow, to which it is united "by the superior medullary velum, and disappears into the mid-brain under cover of the inferior quad- rigeminate body. In the mid-brain the peduncles decussate; and many fibres end in the red nucleus. The rest pass on to the optic thalamus, Avhere some end, while others proceed through it to the internal capsule and thence through the corona radiata to the Rolandic area of the cerebral cortex. The lateral fillet is a flattened band of fibres which emerges from the groove between the pons and superior peduncle and lies on the outer side of the latter. It belongs to the Auditory System. It is formed from the corpus trapezoides—a group of transverse fibres in the pons derived from the cochlear nuclei of both auditory nerves and from the superior olive. The lateral fillet nucleus—a continuation of the superior olivary nucleus—also adds fibres to the fillet. The fibres end in the internal geniculate body, from which the auditory radiation proceeds, and the inferior corpus quadrigeminum, while a few end in the superior quadrigeminate body. The figures indicate— 1. Corpus dentatum. 4. Lateral fillet. 8. Inferior brachium connecting the 2. Stump of inferior peduncle and 5. Superior cerebellar peduncle. inferior quadrigeminate body lower fibres of middle peduncle. 6. Fibres forming anterior edge of with the internal geniculate body, 3. Junction between pons and inferior peduncle. which is cut. middle peduncle. 7 Superior corpus quadrigeminum. 9. Pulvinar of optic thalamus. 10. Pineal body.