THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY EDINBURGH: T, C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. SPINAL CANAL—No. 2. THE POSTERIOR PART OF THE SKULL HAS BEEN REMOVED AND ALSO THE DURA MATER OVER THE CEREBELLUM AND THE UPPER PART OF THE SPINAL CORD. Dura mater. The cranial dura mater is adherent to the cranial wall, and serves as a periosteum to the inner surface of the cranial bones. It contains several large venous channels, many of which meet with one another at the internal occipital protuberance. Thus, at this place, the superior longitudinal sinus, which lies in the middle line and runs from in front to the back, meets the straight sinus, the orifice of which is seen, and the occipital sinus. The confluence of these channels constitutes the torcular Hierophili, and from it the lateral sinuses pass outwards on either side, lying between the cerebrum and the cerebellum. The lumen of the sinuses is rather triangular in shape. Arachnoid. This is a delicate non-vascular membrane which invests the brain and cord. It is not attached to the dura, and between the two membranes is the subdural space, but it is connected to the pia loosely by a number of delicate strands which subdivide the subarachnoid cavity into a number of spaces. The arachnoid is continued directly from the back of the medulla to the under surface of the cerebellum, and hence a large space is left between the arachnoid and the pia in this region which constitutes the cisterna cerebellomedullaris. This is the largest space of the kind, but other similar spaces are found at the base of the brain further forwards. The subarachnoid space contains the cerebro-spinal fluid, and it is continued from the surface of the brain into the spinal canal, in which the arachnoid and the pia are only loosely connected to one another- On the dorsal aspect of the spinal cord the connection is more complete, and a septum is formed uniting the two membranes, and known as the septum posticum. The figures indicate- 1. Spinal dura mater. 2. Spinal cord and arachnoid. 3. Arachnoid membrane. 4. Cerebellum. 5. Dura mater covering occipital pole of cerebrum. 6. Vertebral artery. 7. Second cervical nerve. 8. Superior longitudinal sinus. 9. Orifice of straight sinus. 10. Lateral sinus