THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. 0. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. SIDE OF NECK—No. 1. THE SUPERFICIAL LAYERS OF TISSUE HAVE BEEN REMOVED, AND THE CUTANEOUS NERVES AND VESSELS DISSECTED OUT, AND LEFT IN POSITION. The superficial nerves of the side of the neck are the following :— 1. The inframandibular or cervical branch of the facial nerve appears below the horizontal ramus of the jaw, and is distributed to the platysma myoides muscle. This nerve, which is entirely motor, forms an anastomosis with the superficial cervical nerve from the cervical plexus. 2. Behind the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, about the middle, several nerves from the cervical plexus are found. The small occipital and the great auricular nerves pass upwards, the former along the posterior border of the muscle, the latter crossing the muscle obliquely. The superficial cervical nerve appears slightly below them, and is a branch of some size, which passes horizontally forwards across the sterno-mastoid muscle and sends branches upwards and downwards. Below this again, several branches from C. 3 and 4 pass downwards, are continued on over the sternum, clavicle and acromion process.' These are called the supra-sternal, supra-clavicular and supra-acromial branches respectively. The lower part of the external jugular vein is seen here, in the roof of the posterior triangle of the neck. The upper portion of that vessel is somewhat irregular in this specimen, and lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle instead of superficial to it. There is a large anterior jugular vein. The figures indicate— Muscles. Veins Nerves. 1. Sterno-mastoid. 2. Omo-hyoid. 3. Digastric. 4. Mylo-hyoid. 5. Anterior jugular. 6. Common facial (behind the nerve). 7. External jugular. S. Cervical branch of facial nerve. 9. Small occipital—an anterior branch. 10. Great auricular. 11. Superficial cervical. 12. Descending cutaneous nerves. Other 13. Parotid gland. Structures. 14. Submaxillary gland. 10. Lymphatic gland below the parotid. 16. Spinal accessory nerve.