THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AND NECK. FRONT OF NECK—No. 1. THE ANTERIOR TRIANGLE HAS BEEN EXPOSED BY REMOVAL OF THE SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES. The anterior triangle on each side is bounded in front by the middle line of the neck, behind by the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and above by the lower margin of the jaw, its line continued back from it to the front of the mastoid process. The triangle is conveniently subdivided into three parts by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, by the anterior belly of the digastric, and by the stylo-hyoid muscle and posterior belly of the digastric. The lower or muscular triangle is bounded externally by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid above and by the sterno-mastoid below, while the base is formed by the middle line of the neck. The carotid triangle is bounded behind by the sterno-mastoid, below by the omo hyoid and above by the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. The submaxillary or digastric triangle is bounded above by the jaw and below by the posterior belly of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles externally, and by the anterior belly of the digastric internally. The hyoid bone subdivides the anterior triangle into an upper part, which forms the floor of the mouth, and a lower part which belongs to the neck proper. The anterior jugular vein is formed by the union of several tributaries in the submaxillary region, and it may be a single trunk or double. It passes downwards close to the middle line and terminates by passing outwards, usually under cover of the sterno-mastoid, to join the external jugular vein near its termination. The deeper structures are almost entirely concealed from view. In the muscular triangle the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone are seen; in the submaxillary, the submaxillary gland, while a small portion of the vessels is seen deeply in the carotid triangle (see later). 1. Symphysis menti. 2. Hyoid bone. 3. Pomum Adami. 4. Inner end of clavicle. 5. Anterior belly of digastric. 6. Mylo-hyoid. The figures indicate:— 7. Sterno-hyoid. 8. Omo-hyoid. 9. Sterno-thyroid. 10. Sterno-mastoid. 11. Anterior jugular vein. 12. Additional anterior jugular vein. 13. External jugular vein. 14. Submaxillary gland. 15. Parotid. 16. Submaxillary lymphatic gland. 17. Facial vessels. 18. Axillary artery. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. O 5 Z O » £ 22 1 O 5