THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. HEAD AMD NECK!. BACK OF NECK—No. 1. THE TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE ON EACH SIDE, AND THE SPLENITIS OF THE LEFT SIDE, HAVE BEEN REFLECTED TO SHOW THE STRUCTURES WHICH LIE UNDER COVER OF THEM. Under cover of the upper part of the trapezius lies the splenitis muscle, consisting of two parts, the splenius capitis and the splenitis colli. This muscle arises from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchas and from the spines of the seventh cervical and the upper six dorsal vertebra?, The fibres of the muscle are directed obliquely upwards and outwards, and are inserted into the lower part of the mastoid process and the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone (splenius capitis), while the lower part of the muscle passes to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebra? and constitutes the splenius colli. The splenius overlies the greater part of the complexus muscle and several of the strands which continue the erector spina? into the neck. The complexus is a large fleshy mass which passes from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal vertebra?, and from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra?, almost vertically upwards, to the occipital bone into which it is inserted, between the upper and the lower curved lines. These two muscles form important landmarks in operations upon the back of the neck. The great and the small occipital nerves and the occipital artery are seen in the relationships which they possess to these two muscles, the great occipital nerve piercing them, while the artery lies either upon or under cover of the splenius capitis. The figures indicate- 1. Ext. occipital protuberance. 7. 2. Spine of seventh cervical vertebra, 8. 3. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 9. 4. Splenius capitis muscle. 10. 5. Complexus muscle. 11. 6. Ligamentum nucha?. EDINBURGH! T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. Trachelo-mastoid muscle. Splenius colli muscle. Great occipital nerve. Small occipital nerve. Occipital artery.