THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T C & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. HEAD AND NECK. LARYNX—No. 1. LARYNX AND THYROID GLAND, VIEWED FROM THE FRONT. The thyroid gland consists of two lateral lobes which are usually connected together in front by a central portion or isthmus. Each lateral lobe lies on the side of the trachea, oesophagus, larynx, and pharynx, and is in contact, on its inner aspect, with the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and, behind, with the common carotid artery, the internal jugular vein and the inferior thyroid artery, while it is covered in front by the sterno- mastoid and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. The isthmus is variable in size, and lies in front of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th rings of the trachea, and from the isthmus occasionally arises a process called the pyramidal process, which passes upwards in front of the thyroid cartilage towards the middle of the body of the hyoid bone. The cyst seen here in the upper part of the pyramidal lobe may be either an enlarged subhyoid bursa, or may have arisen from a part of the primitive thyroglossal duct. The parathyroid glands are two small structures which are related to the lateral lobes. On each side, one is placed on the lower border of the lateral lobe, while the other lies further back, in relation to the oeso- phagus, but their positions are very variable. The thyrohyoid membrane is a thin sheet of connective tissue which is attached below to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, above, to the posterior border of the body and greater cornua of the hyoid. It is strengthened in the central part and at the side, forming the central and the lateral thyrohyoid ligaments in these regions. The cricothyroid muscles are two small quadrilateral muscles, which arise from the outer surface of the anterior ring of the cricoid cartilage, and are inserted into the lower margin and inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. They render tense the vocal cords, and are supplied by the external laryngeal nerves. The oesophagus lies behind the upper part of the trachea, and at first is slightly on the left side, The figures indicate— 1. Body of the hyoid bone. 7. Isthmus of the thyroid. 2. Ala of the thyroid cartilage. 8. One of the two left parathyroid glands. 3. Anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage. 9. Thyrohyoid membrane. 4. Trachea. 10. Cyst in the upper part of the pyramidal lobe. 5. Pyramidal lobe of the thyroid gland. 11. (Esophagus. 6. Lateral lobe of the thyroid gland.