/ SKETCH OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS OF THE LATE * MR BENJAMIN GIBSON, SURGEON IN MANCHESTER. # BY JAMES WARDROP, F. R. S. EDIN. From the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. X. No. 37. Biography has ever been considered as an interesting and useful branch of knowledge. The powerful influence of ex- ample on the human mind must have impressed man ever since the rudest ages, with a desire to perpetuate the glorious deeds of war *, and, in proportion as those, who devoted themselves to the cultivation of the mind and the investigation of science, have gained rank and importance in society, in the same degree have their lives -and characters claimed the attention of future ages. The biography of eminent men in the various departments of civilized life, has thus become one of the richest fountains of human knowledge *, it creates an interest which a mere detail of facts and a relation of opinions can never excite, whilst at the same time it calls forth a laudable feeling of ambition' and ho- nourable distinction, which cannot fail to produce the most be- neficial effects on individuals, and have a happy influence on the welfare of the community. Though the sphere of life in which the medical man re^rolves, cannot excite the public interest, nor his professional fame rival that of the warrior or patriot in the admiration of posterity, yet the duties imposed on him as a member of society, are so much A intermingledl2 Mr Wardrop’s Sketch of the Life and Writings intermingled and so closely linked with the happiness and pros=^ perity of mankind, that he who makes use of his best efforts and an honourable zeal in cultivating a liberal profession, and employs' the energies of his mind in devising means to alleviate the dis- tresses of his fellow-creatures, has a just claim on public gratitude and esteem. Impressed with these sentiments, 1 have thought that some account of the life and writings of the late Mr Gibson might not be unacceptable to the medical public, not only as offering a small tribute of respect to the memory of an individual, who must have been regarded as one of the brightest ornaments of his pro- fession ; but also as affording an opportunity of giving a sketch of his valuable writings, and of the interesting improvements he made in different branches of surgery. Mr Gibson was born in September 1774, at Newcastle upon Tyne, of most respectable parents, whose situation in life afford- ed him all the usual means of obtaining a liberal education. From the age of eight to that of seventeen, he remained at an excellent school kept by Mr Temple, at Richmond, in the north Riding of Yorkshire. Having there laid a good foundation* of classical and general literature, he began his medical pursuits by serving an apprenticeship of five years to Mr Ingham, a surgeon of Newcastle, whose celebrity was not confined to that town and neighbourhood, but extended over a wide circle of the surround- ing country; and who still enjoys the same honourable rank in his profession, though prevented by advanced years and impaired health from undergoing its more fatiguing duties. In this situa- tion, Mr Gibson had an opportunity of learning the rudiments of his profession, and acquiring that facility of discriminating diseases, and readiness in the application of the curative means employed in medicine, which seem only to be easily and eminent- ly obtained by practice in early life, a facility which those more advanced in years can never acquire but with unwearied dili- gence and labour. In the year 1796 he went to London, chiefly with a view to prosecute his anatomical studies under Dr Baillie, at that time the most eminent teacher in the metropolis. It was in this depart- ment of his pursuits that he first made a conspicuous figure amongst his contemporaries. From early youth he had evinced a very unusual mechanical talent, and possessed an extreme nicety in mechanical execution. These, with a most persevering and well-directed assiduity, were applied to anatomical researches, and it may be readily conceived, that thus gifted, the dissections which he performed, and the numerous preparations which he made, possessed a neatness, and displayed an anatomical skill almost3 tf the late Mr Benjamin Glhsq;t, almost unrivalled. Many lasting monuments of this talent now remain, particularly a series of preparations exhibiting the struc- ture of the ear in the museum of the University of Edinburgh, and an extensive private collection at Manchester, chiefly intend- ed to illustrate the anatomy of the organs of sense. Such indeed was his dexterity, that, when a young student, he amused himself with cutting a cherry-stone into the form of a human cranium, and detailing, in that minute scale, with incredible accuracy, thq various eminences and depressions of the bones. After spending two winters in London, he visited Edinburgh in the year 1798. There he passed the winter-session and part of the ensuing summer, attending the most celebrated lecturers of that university, and displaying his usual zeal and industry as a stu- dent. In consequence of the very favourable opinion which had been formed of his abilities, he was solicited in the autumn of 1799 to assist Mr White of Manchester, who was at that time about to withdraw himself, in part, from the fatigues of busi- ness After having been actively engaged in the practical part of his profession, for nearly eight years, along with Mr White, Mr Gib- son began his own professional career. He had already acquired no small degree of medical fame, and public confidence ; and, besides an extensive private practice, he was appointed one of the surgeons of the Manchester Infirmary, an institution where perhaps there is a greater field for surgical ex- perience than any in this island, those* of the metropolis not ex- cepted. He had, therefore, every opportunity of cultivating his profession, and these he embraced with eagerness and prosecuted with assiduity. In every thing that regarded the operative part of surgery, he pre-eminently excelled, having great ingenuity in devising means, and possessing a degree of nicety and dexterity in execution which few have ever acquired. But he had still more important qualifications. The native powers of his mind, improved by early application and habit, had given him a great facility in distinguishing dis- eases, and of perceiving all those delicate shades of diflFerence, that escape the eye of a common observer. This faculty is, per- haps, the most essential to the medical practitioner j for on it de- * It might be well to state, that Mr White had applied to the professor of anatomy in Edinburgh, and to some of the principal anatomical teachers in London, to recommend the most eligible person of their acquaintance for so important a trust, and that, without any communication with each other, they all concurred in the selection of Mr Gibson.4 Mr Wardrop’s Sketch of the Life and Writings pends the great art of adapting particular remedies to particular diseases, and of modifying their exhibition according to the pe- culiarities which these diseases assume in every individual. Besides, his anatomical knowledge, and his familiarity with the examination of morbid appearances, made his acquaintance with diseases, and his knowledge of the means necessary for their treatment, of the most accurate and comprehensive kind. His unusual dexterity in the operations of surgery, and his long habits of delicate and minute dissection, particularly of the organs of sense, led him, from a very early period of his practice, to pay great attention to the diseases of the eye. Not only did he become a most dexterous operator on that organ, but some of the operations he materially improved, and he bestowed great pains on the investigation of the treatment of all its diseases. There were no features in Mr Gibson’s mind more to be ad- mired, than his eagerness in acquiring, and his zeal in diffusing knowledge. In the year after his first settlement in Manchester, he began to give lectures in anatomy, which were attended by all the medical students at Manchester ; and he took great pains to communicate to his pupils the results of his private, as well as his public practice. As a lecturer, (I have been informed by one who was a frequent attendant,) he evinced a de- gree of talent, which, had circumstances led him to the metro- polis, or to any other suitable field for its exertion, would have raised him to the highest distinction. An appearance extremely prepossessing; a voice, though somewhat feeble, yet agreeable in its tones, and distinct in its utterance ; a lively interest in his subject, expressed by his animated countenance and manner; and, above all, the perfect knowledge of his science, and the neatness and lucid order of his demonstrations, singularly fitted him for becoming a popular teacher of anatomy, and for disput- ing the palm with those who have been most eminent in that honourable profession. The same mode of thinking which led him freely to communicate the improvements which were con- stantly suggested by his fertile and industrious mind, created feelings of contemptuous indignation towards those who attempt- ed to conceal any professional discovery, either with the vi§w to add unmerited lustre to their name, or for the mere accumula- tion of gain. These feelings had become, towards the close of life, unusually acute ; for, at a time when his mind had be- come irritable, from the ravages of the disease which ultimate- ly proved fatal, some important practical improvements of his own had been brought forward as the discoveries of others, and artfully announced to the world as secret remedies. It5 of the late Mr Benjamin Gibson, It would be out of place for me to attempt to dwell on his private virtues. These will long linger in the remembrance of that circle of society who had the good fortune to enjoy his friendship; and the number of individuals is not small, who re- tain a grateful impression of his professional aid and benevolent disposition. Mr Gibson being naturally of a delicate fabric, the ardour of his mind surpassed the strength of his frame *, and, at the same time, the anxious and laborious duties of his profession contri- buted no doubt to shorten the period of his existence. He had for a long time shown a great predisposition to pulmonary com- plaints ; and at last he was seized with symptoms of confirmed phthisis, the slow progress of which warned him of his approach- ing fate, whilst they were not so severe as to prevent him prose- cuting his professional pursuits, till a few days before his death. He died on the third of February 1812, having just reached his 3 7th year. In his writings, Mr Gibson has left some valuable memo- rials of his industry and talents. The first of these was an Essay read in April 1801 before the Philosophical Society of Man- chester, and published in the 1st volume of the 2d Series of their Memoirs, and is entitled, “ Observations on the Effects of Mad^ der^Root on the Bones of Animals This paper leads to establish a very important physiologi- cal fact, not only with regard to the formation of bone, but it re- futes some doctrines which had been built on an erroneous ex- planation of the mode by which madder changes the colour of the bones of living animals. It had been sometime known to physiologists, that the bones of a young animal, fed on madder-root, acquired a red colour j but Dr Rutherford was the first person who gave any thing like a satisfactory explanation, why the colouring-matter was com- municated to the bones alone, of all the white parts of the body. He conceived that the colouring-matter of the madder had a su- perior attraction to the phosphate of lime, that it united with that part of it which was floating in the general mass of blood, so that all future bone which was formed had a red colour. From the manner in which the coloured portion is deposited, Duha- mel’s opinion of the lamellated structure of bone was supposed to receive an additional confirmation ; and the alternate appear- ance of red and white laminae, produced by feeding the animal with, or depriving it of the madder, were considered as convin- cing proofs, that the harder parts of the animal frame were con- stantly undergoing the same waste and repair, which had been generally believed to take place in the softer parts. Mr Gibson, afterMr Wavdrop’^ Sketch of the Life and Writings 6’ after pointing out the erroneous conclusions to which this doc- trine leads, explains the phenomena in a very ingenious and much more satisfactory manner. He found, by experiments, that the serum of the blood had a much greater attraction for the madder than the phosphate of lime, so that when an animal has madder mixed with its food, the blood becomes changed ^ with it, and the superabundant colouring matter is imparted to the phosphate of lime contained in the bones already formed. But as soon as the animal has ceased to receive the madder, and the blood is freed from the colouring matter by the excretions, the serum then exerts its superior attraction, and by degrees en- tirely abstracts it from the phosphate of lime, and the bones re- sume their natural whiteness. In short, the bones are at one time dyed by the colouring matter, and at another bleached by the serum. In December 1803, Mr Gibson read another before the Man- chester Society;—a paper « on the Use of the Sutures in the Bones of Animals,” He wished to prove, that the existence of sutures was entirely subservient to the process of ossification, and that any advantages which may generally have been suppos- ed to be derived from their presence in arresting the progress of a fracture, or in aiding the delivery of the child, were but of se- condary importance. The bones of the body are generally in- creased in their length or extent, not by any uniform extension of their whole substance, but by an addition of bony matter in some particular part. Thus, in the long bones, the process of os- sification extends from the middle towards the extremity of the bone,—whilst in the flat bones of the cranium, this process be- gins at a certain number of determinate points, and the ossifica- tion extends from these in all directions, until a complete encase- ment of bone is formed. It is by the presence of sutures in the cranium, that this mode of ossification can be carried on, and whenever the process is completed, the sutures, being no longer necessary, disappear. Two original essays of Mr Gibson’s were communicated to this Journal. The first of these, On the Common Cause of the Puriform Ophthalmia of New-Born Children,” was published in the 1807, in Volume HI. p. 139. The chief object of this paper was to point out the important observation, that the puriform ophthalmia of children is a disease which the child receives during delivery, while passing through the vagina of the mother affected with fluor albus. He is thus enabled to suggest the probable means of preventing the child from receiving the infection ; and the fact itself bears a striking analogy with what is well established regarding inflammations of6f the late Mr Benjamin (Gibson. ?7 ail other mucous surfaces, thepuriform ophthalmia of adults and gonnorrhoea being also propagated only by the actual contact of the diseased matter. Till this time, Mr Gibson had only become known to the •world, from the contributions which he had made to the Tran- sactions of Societies or to public Journals. But a short period before his death, he published a separate work, which establish- ed, on the firmest foundation, the high opinion which had been fornled of his professional talents. The work is entitled, “ Practical Observations on the forma- tion of an Artificial Pupil in several deranged States of the Eye ; to which are annexed, remarks on the Extraction of the Soft- Cataract, and those of the Membranous kind, through a puncture in the Cornea. Illustrated by plates. London, 1811.” This work is divided into four sections.—.The first contains the history of the operation for forming an artificial pupil.—^The second is on the mode of forming an artificial pupil, adapted to different deranged states of the eye.—The third, on a mode of extracting a soft cataract through a puncture in the cornea and the fourth, on the extraction of several kinds of membranous cataracts. In the first section is contained an account of the various modes which have at different times been either suggested or employed for making an artificial pupil. Of the defects to which all these modes of operations are liablcj every one who has at- tempted to perform them must be well aware 5 and such has been the discredit into which they have all fallen, that they have of late years been almost entirely abandoned. The numerous cases where an artificial pupil appeared prac- ticable, rendered any successful mode of performing the opera- tion one of the great desiderata of surgery, and in accomplish- ing this desirable object, Mr Gibson advanced a very important step. In the second section, Mr Gibson entered into a full and de- tailed account of his new mode of operating ; of the different states of the eye which admitted relief ; and of the kind of ope- ration adapted for the different cases. It wmuld be foreign to the object of the present paper, to en- ter into a minute discussion of all these interesting topics. Every part of this section of the work merits the attention of him who is to perform such operations. The following extracts may per- haps give a general idea of the principles of his mode of treat- ment. “ In describing the following operations,” says the inge- nious author, “ I shall select a case in which the transparent part of the cornea is situated towards the outer angle of the eye. I shall8 Mr Wardrop’;? ^htch of the Life and Writings : shall suppose also, that its extent is one-third of the diameter of the cornea, although an opacity leaving a much larger transpa- rent surface may destroy what may be termed useful vision. « The eyelids being secured, a puncture is to be made in the cornea with a broad cornea knife, within a line of the sclerotica, to the extent of about three lines. All pressure is now to be removed from the eyeball, and the cornea-knife gradually with- drawn. The consequence of this is, that a portion of the aque- ous humour escapes, and the iris falls into contact with the open- ing in the cornea, closing it like a valve. ' A slight pressure must now be made upon the superior and nasal part of the eyelid, with the fore and middle finger of the left-hand, till at length, by an occasional and gentle increase of pressure, or by varying its direction, the iris will gradually protrude, so as to present a bag of the size of a large pin’s head. This protruded portion is to be cut olF with a pair of fine curved scissars, and all the pres- sure at the same time removed. The iris will then recede with- in the eye, and the portion of it which has been removed will leave an artificial pupil, more or less circular.” After a minute description of the operation, as adapted to dif- ferent sets of cases, Mr Gibson concludes with observing, « That the permanency of the artificial pupil, appears to me to depend principally upon the size of the opening and healthy state of the iris and contiguous parts of the eye, at the time of the operation. When the artificial pupil has been made almost as large as the medium size of the natural one, and especially when the part of the iris removed has included the border, I have never seen any disposition of the opening to close. When, how- ever, a more narrow slip has been removed, when the iris, from previous inflammation, has become more vascular than natural, or when it is complicated with adhesions to the crystalline lens, in such cases its closure has occasionally taken place. The de- gree of vision restored by an operation of this kind, is not quite so perfect as that which succeeds the removal of a cataract. In most cases, however, when the cornea has been perfectly tran- sparent to the full extent of one-third of its diameter, the patient has been able to read tolerably small print.” I have paid considerable attention to the state of the arti- ficial pupil after the eye was quite recovered, in order to ascer- tain whether the fibres of the iris possess any power of motion, so as to alter the size of the new opening, but have never been able to detect any thing similar to the contraction and dilatation of the natural pupil. It appears to me, that although the new pupil may sometimes close when the iris is in a morbid state, yet, that this membrane, a few days after an operation, has very littleof the late Mr Benjamin Gibson, little disposition to contract, in whatever situation the artificial- pupil may have been made.” After detailing the various states of the eye where the forma- tion of an artificial pupil may be successfully attempted, and il- lustrating the whole with very satisfactory cases of his new method of operating, Mr Gibson has added many judicious and candid remarks on those derangements of the eye, where the operation was fruitless, and which leave little room for the assist- ance of art. Upon the whole, the mode of making an artificial pupil, pro- posed by Mr Gibson, must be considered as possessing many im- portant advantages over all former methods of operating. And in some cases where I have had an opportunity of performing it, the result has been extremely successful. The degree of success, however, from the nature of the cases which require such an operation, must be very various; and though in some favourable instances, it may be undertaken with the hope of very essential benefit, there are many others where the relief to be obtained will be extremely doubtful. In the third section^ Mr Gibson describes a new method of operating in those cases of soft cataract, where, from the age of the patient, the flatness of the cornea, or the hollowness of the orbit, the more eligible and complete operation of extraction can- not be advantageously employed. In such cases, Mr Gibson ad- vised that a couchmg-needle be introduced in the usual manner, and that it should be the aim of the operator to rupture most freely the anterior part of the capsule, and to break down the substance of the cataract, by passing the couching-needle through it in different directions, that the aqueous humour may more readily act on it, and reduce it to a pulpy state. When this has been effected, and the eye has perfectly recovered from the ope- ration, the surface of the cataract will probably have put on a flocculent appearance, and be fit for extraction. When the cataract is in this state, instead of repeating the operation of couching, or of having recourse to the usual mode of extraction, by making an incision of the cornea, Mr G. pro- poses, that merely a puncture be made in that tunic, through which the portions of the diseased lens are to be removed, “ In performing this operation, the patient is to be seated and secured in the same manner as for the extraction of a cataract. The cornea-knife, of the largest size, is then to be introduced through the cornea, towards the outer angle of the eye, at the usual distance from the sclerotic coat. If there be any doubt of the free laceration of the anterior part of the capsule of the lens, point of cornea-knife should ho directed obliquely s through10 Mr Wardrop’s Sketch of the Life and Writings I through the pupil, so as to make a more free division of it. All pressure on the eye-ball must now be avoided, and the cornea- knife gradually withdrawn, which is attended with the evacua- tion of the aqueous humour, and some portion of the cataract. The curette is next to be introduced through the incision, and advanced towards the pupil, by which the whole of the cataract may commonly be by degrees removed in a pulpy state, so as to render the pupil perfectly clear. Its removal is generally much facilitated by gentle pressure towards the vitreous humour with the convex surface of the curette, whilst the point is inserted through the pupil. Sometimes, however, the cataract is not re- duced to a sufficient degree of softness by the action of the aque- ous humour, and this state makes its removal more slow, but sel- dom renders the repetition of the operation necessary. For when a considerable portion of the cataract has been removed, the re- mainder is generally observed to be so much reduced in bulk be- fore the fit period for another operation, as to ensure its speedy disappearance.’’ Mr G. afterwards points out the changes which take place in the appearance of the lens, that render this mode of operat- ing adviseable, and thus concludes; “ From much experience, therefore, of the puncture of the cornea, I have found it to be an operation productive of the slightest possible injury to the eye ; and I would recommend its adoption in extracting the soft cata- ract, after the couching-needle has been employed without suc- cess, upon these grounds, that it generally accomplishes at once, what might require the introduction of the couching-needle se- veral times, and that it is attended with less risk and irritation to the eye, and gives the patient less pain. The fourth section treats of the extraction of membranous ca- taracts through a puncture in the cornea. “ The variety, (says Mr Gibson,) which I shall select for explaining the mode of operation, is a simple membranous cataract, which has not con- tracted adhesions with the iris, but has either existed from birth, or has remained after the extraction or depression of the lenticu- lar cataract.” In such a case,- the point of the cornea-knife, after penetrat- ing the cornea, is to form a small puncture in the membranous cataract, as near as possible to the margin of the irisytowards the external angle of the eye. The knife is then to be quietly with- drawn, and, by the escape of a part of the aqueous humour, the pupil becomes dilated by pressure a tergo, and the pupil in the membranous cataract is sometimes a little enlarged. Through the puncture the small hook is to be passed behind the opake membrane, with its point directed downwards until it reaches the