KLKMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 230 SYLLABUS (science and art department). First Stage, or Elementary Course. Questions will be confined to the under-mentioned points in the elements of Anatomy and Physiology. Candidates are expected to have seen the corpuscles of the blood under a microscope magnifying about three or four hundred diameters. It is also desirable that they should have made themselves acquainted in like manner with the general microscopic characters of the cells constituting epithelium. Other details of structure needing the use of microscope will not be asked for. The information demanded under "Chemical Preliminaries" is hmited on the one hand to elementary and fundamental chemical principles, as applied to the animal body, and on the other to the important properties of the chief chemical substances composing the body and food; in respect to these points the answers must be precise, but no further chemical knowledge will be required. No candidate will be allowed to pass who in the answers makes gross errors concerning the general build of the body and the relations of its several parts, the structure and working of the heart and the main facts of the circu- lation, the mechanical and chemical changes of respiration, the chemical nature of food, its changes in the alimentary canal, and its use in the body. A. Anatomical Preliminaries. The general build of the body. The form, the position, and the uses of the following parts of the skeleton : —skull, vertebras, ribs, sternum; scapula, clavicle, humerus, radius, ulna, carpus, metacarpus, phalanges (of the hand); pelvis, femur, tibia, fibula, tarsus, metatarsus, phalanges (of the foot). The more obvious distinctive characters of skin, mucous membrane, glands, connective tissue, tend on, ligament, cartilage, bone, muscle, and nerve. The position in the body, and the general form and size, of the following internal organs:—The brain and spinal cord ; the pharynx, gullet, stomach, and intestines ; the salivary glands, the liver, and the pancreas ; the posterior nares, the larynx, trachea, and lungs; the diaphragm; the kidneys and the bladder ; the heart and the great vessels; the spleen. B. Chemical Preliminaries. The simpler chemical properties of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen; the meaning of the terms "element," "compound," "decomposi- tion," " oxidation," as illustrating elementary chemical principles. The composition, nature, and properties of air, water, carbon dioxide (carbonic acid), and ammonia. The chemical elements of which proteids, fats, and carbohydrates are com- posed ; the'general chemical properties of these substances, and the relative proportions in which the several elements are present in each of them. The composition and general nature of urea.