231 SYLLABUS C. General View of the Animal Body in Action. The movements of the body as the result of muscular action. Muscular action viewed as chemical change (oxidation) of the muscle, whereby energy is set free, and waste of substance caused. The blood as the agent which (a) removes the waste, and {d) supplies fresh nutritive material to make good the waste. The waste matter in the blood got rid of by the excretory organs. The fresh nutritive material in the blood supplied to it from food by means of the digestive organs. The control of the muscles by the nervous system, consisting of {a) sensory or afferent nerves, (d) the brain and spinal cord, (c) motor or efferent nerves. The general functions of the brain and spinal cord. The maintenance of the erect posture. Local and general death. D. Special Physiology. a. The Blood. The form, size, and structure of the corpuscles of the blood. The general composition of the blood. The phenoinena presented by blood drawn from the body ; clotting of blood. b. The Circulatory System. The general structure of the heart ; the form and arrangement of its chambers ; the nature of its walls ; the form and position of its valves. The differences between the right and left side of the heart. The action of the heart as a force-pump. The mode and action of the valves during the heart-beat. The general differences between arteries, capillaries, and veins. The course of the circulatiouj and the reason why the blood moves in only one direction. The characters of and differences in the blood-flow in arteries, capillaries, and veins. The meaning of the "pulse." Tlie evidence of the circulation obtainable in the living body. c. The Alimentary System. The general form and arrangement of the alimentary canal in its several parts. The more obvious characters of the mucous coat, and the differences in respect to it between the stomach and the small and large intestine. The relationship of the salivary and gastric glands, and of the pancreas and liver, to the ahmentary canal. The character and uses of their secretions ihe general nature of food. The classification of food-stuffs. The changes the several food-stuffs respectively undergo in the alimentary canal, and how these are brought about. The manner in which nutritiiFe matters are absorbed and innutritious matters got rid of from the alimentary canal. The economy of a mixed diet. d. The Liver. Position and general structure of the liver The blood supply to the liver. The obvious characters and properties of bile. c. The Respiratory System. The arrangement of the ribs, sternum, intercostal muscles, and diaphragm. The manner m which the walls and^floor of the chest change their posifion during the respiratory movements. ^ pobiiion respTc^fvel^' ^""^ ^^""^^^ ''^'^^ ^"'"'"S inspiration and expiration