LIGAMENTS. CARTILAGE. JOINTS 3$ therefore, do not move on each other, but all motion is due to the flexibility of the layer of cartilage between them. The vertebrae with the intervertebral cartilages form such joints. SUMMARY. 1. Ligaments bind bones together. 2. Tendons connect muscles with bones. 3. Cartilage is tough, flexible, and elastic. When boiled it yields cJion- (iriite, which resembles gelatine. Chondrine is insoluble in cold water, but dissolves in hot water, forming a jelly on cooling. -becomes converted into bone in adults, not converted into bone. 5. Kinds of Cartilage :— {a) Temporm-y- {b) Permanent- 6. Uses of Cartilage :— {a) Forms strong yet flexible frameworks. {b) Acts as buffers in deadening shocks and blows. {c) Deepens the sockets of joints ; example—the hip-joint. {d) Covers the articulating surfaces of bones, thus reducing the friction. Immovable, 7. JOINTS - /Perfect . Movable . Imperfect Sutures—skull. / Gliding joints—ankle and wrist. Ball-and-socket joints—• shoulder and hip. Hinge joints—elbow and knee. Pivot joints—^joint of atlas and axis. Vertebral joints. QUESTIONS ON LESSON V. 1. What are ligaments 1 Where are they to be found ? 2. ^Vhat is the difference between ligament and tendon ? 3. What is car/z'/fljij ? Describe its chief characteristics. 4. Describe the chief uses of cartilage. Illustrate your description by reference to various parts of the body. 5. Describe briefly the various kinds oi joints, giving examples of each kind 6. Describe the manner in which the bones of the skull are united to each other. 7. By what means are the bones enabled to move smoothly over each other ' 8. Describe the ankle and wrist joints. 9. Give a full description of the shoulder-joint. Illustrate your answer bv a sketch. ^ 10. Draw a sketch and give a description of the hip-joint. Show how the bones forming this joint are held together. 11. Give an example and explain the action of a pivot joint. 12. Describe the manner in which the bones of the vertebral column are con- nected together. 13. Write out in tabular form, a list of all the various kinds of joints, givine examples of each kind. ' & s 14. Why in old age is the back generally stiff"?