174 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXIX. 1. Describe the general form, size, and position of the kidneys. 2. Describe the structure of the i<:idney as far as it can be seen without the use of a microscope. 3. Name the vessels of the kidney. Describe the nature of the fluid contained in each, and say in which direction it flows. 4. Compare the blood of the renal artery with that of the renal vein. 5. In what way do the kidneys purify the lilood ? Should the kidneys cease to perform their function, is it likely that other organs would do their work? Give reasons for your answer. 6. Describe the nature of the urine. IIow does it get from the kidneys to the bladder, and what prevents it from immediately leaving the bladder? 7- Describe the chemical composition of the chief ingredients separated from the blood by the kidneys. How did these materials get into the blood ? 8. Describe the structure and use of the bladder. 9. Describe the manner in which the urine is separated from the blood as it circulates in the kidney. LESSON XXX. THE NERVOUS SYSTEM—NERVES. Almost every movement of the body, whether voluntary or involuntary, is brought about and governed by some portion of the nervous system. If we will to do anything, we do it through the agency of nervous matter, which acts as a medium between the mind and the muscles. Thus the nerves do not produce motion by their own contraction, but by their influence over the muscles in which their fibres terminate. The nervous system consists of two distinct.parts, called the cerebrospinal and the sympathetic systems. The cerebro-spinal system consists of the brain, the spinal cord, and all the nerves given off from the brain and the cord. All the vertebrate animals possess such a system. The nerve fibres of the cerebro-spinal system are distributed chiefly to the skin, thus giving us the sense of touch ; to the other organs of sense—the nose, tongue, ear, and eye; and also to all the voluntary muscles. The sympathetic or ganglionic system consists of a number of ganglia (knots) of nervous matter which give off nerve fibres. The chief portion of this system comprises a double chain of ganglia, si- tuated one half on each side of the vertebral column, and extending from the skull to the pelvis. It also includes various ganglia which supply fibres to certain internal organs. The nerves of the