75 THE ORGANS OF THE ABDOMEN 5. Name the various parts of the alimenlary canal, taking them in order ; and say which parts belong to the thorax, and which to the abdomen, 6. Give a brief description of the liver. With what organs is it in contact ? 7! Describe the forms, sizes, and positions of the pancreas and the spleen. Of what uses are these organs ? 8. Where are the kidneys situated ? Describe their general form, size, and use. 9. What part of the body is occupied by the bladder ? What is its use ? 10. Give a general description of the arrangement and use of the peritoneum. LESSON XIV. TBE CHEMISTRY OF THE BODY. All substances are either elementary or compound. An elementary substance or element is a substance which consists of only one kind of matter, and therefore cannot be di- vided into two or more simpler substances. A compound substance is one which consists of two or more elements chemically combined, and may be ana- lysed or split up into these elements. The following simple experiment illustrates these definitions:— Put a little red oxide of mercury (red precipitate) into a test-tube, and heat it in the flame of a spirit lamp. After a short time a greyish deposit will be formed on the cool part of the tube, which deposit consists of a number of minute globules of the liquid metal called quicksilver or mercury. While this deposit is being formed, pass into the tube a smouldering taper or chip of wood, and it will immediately burst into flame. Thus we have separated the oxide of mercury into two distinct substances:—one is the metal mercury, and the other is a gas which sup- ports combustion much better than air. This gas is called oxygen. Hence the oxide of mercury is a compound sub- stance ; and, since the two substances oxygen and mercury cannot be further simplified, they are called elements. Over sixty elementary substances are known Fig. 81.- Showing how to decom- pose the Bed Oxide of Mer- cury. are known to chemists Four of these are gases at ordinary temperatures, two only ar. liquids, and the others are solids. About fifteen of these elements have been found in the human body. The chief of these are— Oxygen, forming about 72 per cent, of the weight. Carbon „ „ 13-5 Hydrogen „ „ 9