WASTE AND REPAIR—FOODS 83 Organic foods may be subdivided into animal and vegetable foods; and each of these again into nitrogenous and non-nitro- genoits. Among the animal nitrogenous foods may be mentioned— (1) Albumen. This substance may be obtained from white of egg, of which it forms about 20 per cent. It is a clear and trans- parent Hquid when fresh, but coagulates, when heated, into a white opaque solid. (2) Casein (Lat. caseus, cheese). This compound exists largely in milk, from which it may be separated in a solid form by the addition of an acid. This is illustrated in the making of cheese;—the milk is separated into curds and whey by the ad- dition of rennet, and the curd from which the cheese is made contains the casein. (3) Fibrin (Lat. fidra, a fibre). Fibrin exists in blood. (4) Myosin (Gr. mus, a muscle). This is an important con- stituent of the juice of muscles. It is converted into syntonin by the addition of an acid. The above four nitrogenous substances all closely resemble each other in chemical composition, and are all termed albumi- noids. (5) Gelatine. This may be obtained from bones by boiling. It swells considerably in cold water, but does not dissolve. It is soluble m hot water, and when the solution cools it forms a 'jelly.' The different kinds of glue are varieties of gelatine. The chief vegetable nitrogenous foods are :— (1) Gluten. This substance exists in all cereal grains. It forms about 50 per cent, of wheat flour, from which it may be obtamed as follows Tie a little wheat flour in a calico bag, and well knead it in a vessel of water. A substance passes through the mterstices of the calico which gives a milky appearance to the water. This substance is starch. After removing as much as possible of the starch in this manner, the contents of the bag will consist of a very sticky substance, which may be drawn out into threads. This is gluten. Gluten so closely resembles fibrin that It IS sometimes termed vegetable fibrin. (2) Legumen. Legumen exists largely in all kinds of peas and beans, and other seeds. The principal non-nitrogenous foods are : ^ (i) Starch. This is a vegetable substance which exists largely m various parts of plants. A method of separating it from flour has just been described ; it may also be obtained in large quantities .rom potatoes, rice, arrowroot, &c. It is insoluble in cold water, buu dissolves slightly in hot water, forming a kind of jelly on cool- G2?