236 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 5. Wliat is a muscular filne ? About how big is a muscular fibre of one of your own muscles? Explain how muscular fibres are built up into an ordinary muscle. (gj 6. Mow docs the arrangement of the blood-vessels and the circulation of the blood in the liver differ from the arrangement of the blood-vessels and the circulation of the blood in a muscle ? What purpose is served by the peculiar blood supply of the liver ? (9) 7. Where is the spinal cord placed ? Where and how does it end above and below ? What can you learn concerning its structure without using a microscope ? (9) 8. How does the upper part of the cavity of the nose into which the nostril leads differ from the lower part ? What different functions are performed by the two parts ? (9) 9. Of what two distinct parts is the skin made up? How do they differ from each other in structure, and what are the chief uses of each part ? (9) 10. What is saliva? Where and how is it formed? What are its uses ? (9) 11. Explain how it comes about that your body has about the same tem- perature on the hottest day in summer and the coldest day in winter. What is that temperature ? (9) 12. When a body has been buried for some time, nothing is left but the bones. Why have all the other parts disappeared, and what has become of them ? (9) 1887. 1. Where is the tricuspid valve placed ? What is its form and structure? Describe how it appears when seen in a sheep's heart. Explain how it works in carrying on the circulation of the blood. (16) 2. Where is the diaphragm placed ? What important organs touch it on the one side, and what on the other ? What structures pass through it, and through what part of it do they pass ? What are the two kinds of tissue of which it is mainly made up, and how does each of these act in carrying on the work of breathing ? (16) 3. Where does the small intestine lie ? Where and how does it begin, and where and how does it end ? What is the general structure of its walls ? What changes does food undergo in the small intestine ? (16) 4. What parts go to form the elbow-joint, and how are they arranged to form that joint ? How is it that we are able to move the forearm on the arm in one way only, and that to a certain extent only ? (16) 5. What is the colour of venous blood when it flows from a vein, as for instance when a man is bled in the arm ? What is the colour due to ? If venous blood were spread out in a thin sheet over a large surface, would it change colour ? If so, why ? (9) . 6. What is the nature of the several food-stuffs present in milk ? Why is milk so largely used, and so desirable an article of food ? (9) 7. Describe what may be seen by the naked eye, or with the help of a simple lens, when a long bone in a dried skeleton, the femur or humerus for instance, is sawn through lengthwise. How would a bone, taken from a recently dead body, and similarly sawn through, differ in appearance from the above ? (9) 8. How do the ' red ' and ' white corpuscles' of the blood differ from each other ? About how big is a red corpuscle and a white corpuscle in human blood ? What is the name and nature of the fluid in which the blood corpus- cles swim in a living blood-vessel ? (9)