ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 234 8. Several large arteries are spread over the stomach and intestines, and break up into capillaries in the walls of those organs. By what course does the blood get Ijack from those capillaries to the right side of the heart ? {9) 9. When any one cries where do the tears come from ? Are tears produced when one does not cry, and if so why are they not seen ? (9) 10. What is gastric juice ? Where and how is it formed ? Of what use is it in digestion ? 11. The blood flows through a muscle along blood-vessels, arteries, capil- laries, and veins, all closed tubes, and yet the blood nourishes the musculai fibres which are outside these blood-vessels. How does the nourishment then get from the blood-vessels to the muscular fibres ? (9) 12. You can move your fingers and you can feel with your fingers. Instances of injury or disease have been met with in which the power of movement in the arm has been lost and yet feeling has remained, and others in which feeling has been lost and yet the power of movement has been retained. State what parts must have been affected by the injury or disease in these cases. (9) 1884. 1. What is a capillary? About how wide is a capillary? In what parts of the body are capillaries found ? What changes does the blood undergo in the capillaries of the lungs ? What changes does the blood undergo in the capillaries of a muscle ? (16) 2. How is the skull fastened on the spinal column ? How are the move- ments of turning and nodding the head brought about ? Why does a man nod when he goes to sleep sitting up ? (16) 3. Where is the mitral or bicuspid valve placed ? WTiere are the aortic semilunar valves placed ? How does the mitral valve differ from the aortic semilunar valves in structure and action ? (16) 4. What food-stuffs are present in each of the following articles of food :— a slice of bread and butter, a basin of porridge, a mutton chop, a boiled potato, a glass of milk, a boiled cabbage? One kind of food-stuff differs in a most important particular from all others. What is that kind of food-stuff, and what is that important particular ? (16) 5. What is the sternum, and what is it made of? How are the bony ribs connected with it ? In what way does it move during breathing ? (9) 6. What is it gives to blood its redness ? Suppose you were able to remove from blood all the red corpuscles, without otherwise changing it, what kind of fluid would be left behind ? i.e. What would the fluid look like and what would be its chief properties ? (9) 7. What is the large intestine ? Where is it placed ? W^here does it begin and where does it end ? What changes does the food undergo in it ? (9) 8. "What does fresh bile look like ? Where does it come from, and where does it go to ? What are its uses ? (9) 9. What is the crystalline lens ? Where is it placed ? Sometimes the crystalline lens has to be removed ; what difference does its removal make to the power of seeing ? (9) 10. Explain what is meant by the roots of spinal nerves. How may it be proved that the two roots of a spinal nerve have different functions ? (9) 11. Describe the various movements which make up the act of walking. Explain why the top of a man's head moves up and down as he walks, _ (9) 12. Very often when your leg is kept for a longtime in one position it ' goes to sleep.' What is the condition which we thus call ' going to sleep," and how is it brought about ? (9^