117 ABSORPTION QUESTIONS ON LESSON XX. !. What is meant by absorption ? What are the organs concerned in the absorption of nutriment ? ::. WTieredoes the absorption of nutritious matter commence ? In what parts is it continued ? 3. How does the absorption by blood-vessels differ from that by the lacteals ? 4. What are lacteals and lymphatics ? 5. Describe the structure of a vilhis. In what way is it particularly adapted for absorption ? 6. What are the organs and vessels which make up the lymphatic system ? 7. What is the difference between lymph and chyle ? S. How is the food conveyed from the alimentary canal into the blood ? 9. What is the thoracic duct ? Where is it situated ? What does it contaia during fasting, and what shortly after a meal ? I o. What are lymphatic glands 1 What is their use ? LESSON XXI. THE BLOOD. The blood consists of a colourless alkaline fluid called the Hquor sanguinis, and myriads of minute floating bodies called vrpusdes. The liquor sanguinis (Lat. sangtm, blood), called also the plasma, consists of water in which is dissolved certain mineral salts ind albu7nen and other nitrogenous matter. The blood corpuscles are of two kinds, usually termed the red md the white or coloiirless The red corpuscles are minute circular discs, concave on both jiides, having a diameter of about a^Vu inch, and a thickness of f bout mch. If placed flat, edge to edge, ten millions of ihem would be required to cover a square inch. They are so humerous in the blood that they make it a thickish liquid, and probably form about forty per cent, of the total weight of the blood jvVhen examined singly under a powerful microscope they are not •ed, but of a pale yellowish colour ; yet these are the bodies vhich, when seen en masse, give to the blood its uniform red colour These corpuscles seem to be supported by a firm elastic framework' ;o that they readfly change their shape in passing through narrow ipertures, and regain it immediately after. The white or colourless corpuscles are a little larger than the •ed, being about inch in diameter. Being composed of a -ery soft, jelly-hke substance {protoplasm) they readily change .heir form. Ihey much resemble a minute animal organism,