ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY Nitrogenous foods are frequently termed tissue-forming foods: and non-nitrogenous, heat producers. But this method of clas- sification is very misleading, since both nitrogenous and non- nitrogenous are oxidised in the body, and, therefore, both help to maintain the high temperature. It is known, however, that none but nitrogenous food-substances are capable of forming tissues. SUMMAKY. Sources of loss to the body:— {a) Lungs; much waUr and carbonic acid gas. (b) Skin : much ivaier and a Httle carbonic acid gas. (c) Kidneys : much ivale7- and urea. (The amount of loss increases with muscular activity.) , Alhumen—white of egg. 03 P o o ANIMAL, Nitrogenous Non- nitrogenous Nitrogenous. Casein—milk and cheese. Tibvin—blood. Myosin—muscle. Gelatine—bone. Fats and sugar. -cereal grains. Gluten- Legumen— ■ Starch—all parts of plants. Non- Sugars—all parts of plants. nitrogenous 1 Gums—all parts of plants. Oila—fruits. f Water, common salt, calcium carbonate, calcium phos- t phate, dj'c. 3. Life cannot be sustained by nitrogenous, non-nitrogenous, or mineral foods alone : all three kinds must be used. VEGETABLE MINERAL In mixed 4. Daily loss . In bread In lean meat (Bread—2 lbs. '^^^M Meat-4 lb. Carbon Carbon Carbon Carbon : Nitrogen:; 15 Nitrogen:: 30 Nitrogen:: 3^ Nitrogen:: 16 I. I. I. I (nbout). Hence the advantage of the mixed diet in making good the daily loss with but little waste. 5. A model food is one which will supply che necessary elements in about the same proportions as they are given off" from the system. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XV. I What proofs can you give to show that the body is continually wasting away ? 2. What are the chief sources of loss to the body ? 3. What is the nature of the waste materials thrown off by the lungs, the skin, and the kidneys respectively? 4. How would you prove that carbon is oxidised in the body? 5. What is the cause of the high temperature of the human body ? 6. Why does an animal die when it ceases to take food ?