THE EVE AND VISION 203 The four recti (Lat. rectus, straight) chiefly by the elevation and depression of this lid that the eye is opened and closed. The eyelids are closed by the contraction of muscular fibres which are arranged in the form of a ring around the eye. This circular muscle is called the orbicularis (Lat. orbi- culus, a little circle). The lower lid has no special muscle to depress it, but the upper eyelid is raised by the contraction of a muscle which comes forward from the back of the orbit. The eyeball is moved by six muscles, four of which are called straight muscles, and the other two oblique. " ■ 't . - - -^ come forwards from the back of the orbit, and are named superior, in- ferior, external, and internal, from their positions. The superior rec- tus muscle turns the front of the eyeball upwards, the inferior rectus turns it downwards; and the external and internal recti turn the front of the eyeball outwards and inwards respectively. The superior oblique muscle comes forward from the back of the orbit, and then, becoming ten- dinous, passes through a kind of pulley of fibres attached to the frontal bone. It then turns backwards and outwards, and is attached to the outer and back portion of the eye- ball. Hence, when this muscle contracts, it turns the eyeball ob- liquely outwards and downwards. The inferior oblique muscle springs from the lower and front portion of the orbit, and passes obliquely back- wards and outwards. By its con- traction the front of the eyeball is turned upwards and outwards. The front of the eyeball is kept clean and moist bya saline fluid which is secreted continu- ously by the lachrymal gland (Lat. lachryma, a tear). This gland is about the size of a small almond, and is situated in the upper and outer portion of the orbit. It is very similar to the salivary glands in structure. It is pro- vided with several small ducts by which the lachrymal fluid is con- ducted to the upper surface of the eyeball. The fluid gradually moves over the surface of the ball, assisted by every motion of the eyelid, till it reaches the inner angle formed by the eyelids, having carried 186 and 187.—The Muscles of the Right Orbit. sphenoid bone ; 1, muscle which raises the upper lid ; 2, pulley and tendon of the superior oblique ; 3, tendon of the superior rectus ; 4, external rectus—partly removed in fig. 188; 5, inferior oblique muscle; 6, inferior rectus; 7, internal rectus ; 8, optic nerve.