ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY into play, and also the muscles of the abdomen, which latter act on the organs of the abdomen, thus exerting indirectly an upward pressure on the diaphragm. Although the respiratory movements are generally purely involuntary, yet they are brought about by muscles which are under the control of the 7vill; and are sometimes partially or entirely voluntary, as in speaking, singing, and blowing. We may now notice some of the more important respiratory acts which differ from ordinary breathing. Generally speaking, while respiration is going on, the glottis (the aperture at the upper end of the trachea) is open so as to allow a free passage to the air. In speaking or singing the vocal cords are stretched across the larynx, leaving only a narrow space for the passage of air (see fig. 217). Under these circumstances the cords are made to vibrate by the air current forced between them, thus producing the voice. A sigh is simply a prolonged inspiration, followed by a rather sudden expiratory movement. The former is produced chiefly by the action of the abdominal muscles, and the latter is due to the elastic recoil of the lungs and the walls of the chest. When the mind is intensely concentrated on some particular subject for a long time, the breathing becomes so quiet that the blood is imperfectly aerated ; and this feeble respiration is compensated for by deep involuntary respirations (sighs) at intervals. Hiccough is a sudden inspiration, produced by the spasmodic action of the diaphragm. Being so sudden, the aperture of the glottis is unprepared for the rush of air, and hence the peculiar sound produced by the vibration of the vocal cords. Coughing is generally preceded by a deep inspiration. The glottis is then closed firmly by the muscles of the larynx, and the expiratory muscles suddenly contract. At first the force is not sufficient to open the glottis, but at last the vocal cords are sud- denly burst open, and the air is noisily expelled. Coughing is a means by which any mucus or other matter which irritates the walls of the air passages may be got rid of. Sneezing is produced much in the same w^ay as coughing, but the tongue is raised against the soft palate so as to divert the air current through the nose. Sniffing consists of a series of short inspirations ; but, the mouth being closed, the whole of the air inspired is made to pass through the nostrils. Sobbing is a series of convulsive inspirations, each taking place while the glottis is more or less closed. Laughing consists of short and rapid expirations. Yawning is a long inspiratory act, accompanied by a stretch- ing of the muscles of the mouth and face.