69 THE ORGANS OF THE THORAX That which surrounds the heart is called the pericardium (Gr. peri, about; and kardia, the heart), and that which invests each lung the pleura. In both cases one layer of the membrane is so closely attached to the organ that it can be separated only with difficulty, while the other is reflected back from this so as to form a double bag or sac. The outer layer of the pericardium en- velops the heart loosely, and is generally torn or cut when that organ is removed from the thorax. The outer layer of the pleura is firmly attached to the walls of the chest. (See fig. 78.) TEACHEA or WIND-PIPE LUNGS or LIGHTS. HEART . (ESOPHAGUS i SUMMAKY. Leads from the mouth to the lungs. Composed of rings of cartilage connected by soft fibrous tissue. /■ xi.e upper, enlarged portion of the trachea. Larynx J Sometimes called the voice-box. \ Contains the vocal cords. Bronchi | "^"^^ S"^^^*- divisions of the trachea. I One enters each lung. Bronchial tubes—the subdivisions of the bronchi. Light, spongy bags. Contain air-cells—2X the terminations of the bronchial lubes. Almost fill the thorax, C A membrane surrounding the lungs. Pleurae -! , One covers the lungs. (Composed of two layers -1 The other lines the chest t walls. A hollow muscle (involuntary). Weighs about 9 ozs. Occupies lower, front, middle portion of the chest. Rests on the diapliragm. Its apex or point turns downward towards the left. Has four cavities. Forces the blood to all parts of the body. j' A membi-ane surrounding the heart. 1 f Onp nffnr^ \ Pericardium C One attached to the ■ Composed of two layers} rr,}^^^^^: ihe other envelops V it loosely. Leads from the mouth to the stomach. A soft, fleshy tube. Lies behind the trachea. Then passes between the lungs, and through the diaphragm. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XII. 1. Give the names of the chief organs of the thorax, and describe briefly the position of each. 2. Where is the tracheal Where does it begin, and where does it end ? 3. What are the bronchi and the bronchial tubes ? Where are thev to be found ?