ELEMENTARY I'lJYSIOLOGY 240 _ 7- ^yhat is the structure of the diaphragm? How does the diaphragm act in breathing ? (\ \ 8 What is a clot of blood composed of? When you cut a large cIo°t of blood open, does the msidc look different from the outside? and if so. why' How may a colourless clot be obtained ? (jo) ' 9. When you touch a body with your finger, you can tell whether the body IS rough or smooth ; why cannot you do this if the skin of the finger be injured or removed ? In what part of the body is the sense of touch most acute ? in what parts least? How can you determine this accurately? (10) 10. What is the general structure of the spinal cord? Explain what happens if the spinal cord be damaged, (i) at the level of the bottom of the neck, (2) at the level of the middle of the back. (lo) 11. Explain as fully as you can what you do when you " hold your breath." What changes are taking place in your lungs while you are holding your breath ? Why cannot you hold it for more than a very short time? (10) 12. After violent exercise a man says "he is very hot." Is he really hotter than usual ? If not, explain how this is ? (lo) 1892. 1. What is the abdomen? What structures form its walls? State the more important organs which are placed in the abdomen, giving the position of each, and explaining in particular the manner in which the alimentary canal passes through the abdomen. (i^) 2. Describe the semilunar valves of the aorta, stating their exact position, their appearance, form, and structure (as far as the latter can be made out without a microscope), and explaining how they act in the work of the circulation. (i^j 3. Explain how the chest is enlarged when we breathe in, and how it becomes small^ again when we breathe out, and show why air goes into the chest in breathing in, and why it comes out in breathing out. About how far into the chest does the air which we take in at an ordinary breath go? (15) 4. What is the general structure of the mucous membrane of the stomach, and what are the characters of the juice which it secretes ? Describe the changes which a piece of meat and a piece of bread undergo in the stomach. (15) 5- How would a cupful of blood drawn from some artery in a limb, say the artery in the thigh, differ in appearance from a cupful of blood drawn from the neighbouring vein ? To what important changes undergone by the blood in passing from the artery to the v-ein is this difference of appearance due ? Where and how have these changes been brought about? (10) 6. State the structure of a muscle and of its tendon as far as can be made out without the use of a microscope. What happens to the muscle and to the tendon when the muscle contracts? (10) 7. What is bile ? Where is it formed ? .Where does it flow to when food has recently been taken, and where does it go when food has not been taken? What are its chief uses ? (10) 8. In what parts of the body are capillary blood vessels most abundant and most close set ? In what parts of the body are they scanty and far apart ? From what parts of the body are capillaries entirely absent ? (10) g. What is the crystalline lens ? Where is it placed ? What is its use ? When and why does it change in shape? How is the change brought about? (10) 10. Describe the general structure of a kidney, and state the general nature of the work which the kidneys perform. If the kidneys fail to excrete urine what changes lake place in the blood ? (10)