ELEMENTARY niYSIOLOGY 112 going on in the various tissues of the body, and also, during youth, to allow of the growth and development of the system as a whole. In the alimentary canal the various food-substances are simply digested, that is, either converted into a soluble form, or else separated into such minute particles that they are capable of beinr? transmitted through moist membranous structures. But now it is necessary that the materials so digested enter the blood system. They are then conveyed to the various tissues and added to their structures, while the blood at the same time removes from these tissues those materials which have performed their office, and which are termed the waste products. The passage of the nutritious substances from the digestive canal to the blood system constitutes the process called absorption. We have noticed that the process of digestion commences in the mouth, and is continued more or less throughout the alimentary canal. We have also learnt that the whole of the canal is lined with a soft mucous membrane which is richly supplied with blood-vessels, and that as soon as the digestion of a food- substance commences, the dissolved portions begin to penetrate the soft membrane and pass through the thin walls of the minute blood capillaries. Thus we become acquainted with one process by which nutritious matter enters the blood—a process which wc may term the absorption by blood-vessels. We shall presently leam, however, that there is another and distinct process of absoriJtion, carried on by a complicated system of vessels especially adapted for the purpose. The blood-vessels seem to exercise no choice in the materials absorbed. Every kind of food is readily imbibed provided it is dissolved or reduced to such a finely-divided state that it is capable of permeating their walls. It must be remembered that this absorption is carried on almost exclusively by the minutest blood-vessels (the capillaries), the walls of which are exceedingly thin. The other portion of the process of absorption referred to above is carried on by a system of vessels called the lymphatic system {see fig. 6), and the function performed by the vessels of this system is of such an important character that they are often said to constitute the absorptive system. The lymphatic system (Lat. lympha, clear water) is so called 'because its vessels usually contain a watery fluid. It consists of .lyjnphatic capillaries, lymphatic vessels, glands, and two vessels -called lymphatic trunks, the larger of which is situated at the back 'Of the thorax and is called the thoracic duct. The lymphatic capillaries are very minute vessels (Lat.