THE EAR 219 pressure Is generally equalised on the two sides of the drum. The Lus aclna. U be bein.^ narrow: is easily blocked by the meeting of its opposite walls ; and this occurs at a moment when the pressures on the internal and external surfaces of the drum are unequal, "a peculiar sensation is experienced, and hearincT is for the time defective. But by performing the act of swallowing, the tube is opened and the normal pressure restored. The internal ear consists of a very complex cavity hollowed otit of the bone (the osseoics labyrinth), which contanis a similar cavity membranous labyrinth) bounded by membranous walls. The osseous labyrinth consists of three parts :—the vestibule (Lat. vestibulum, an entrance), the semicircular canals, and the cochlea (Lat. a snail). Fig. 206.—Interior of the Left Labyrinth. I, 2 and 3, semicircular canals ; 4, cochlea; 5, vestibule. Fig. 209.—The usseous Cochlea divided through the middle. Fig. 210.—Diagrammatic view of the Osseous Cochlea laid open. The vestibule is the central chamber of the osseous labyrinth ; it commu- nicates with the SQmicircul^ir canals behind, and the cochlea in front. It is separated in part from the tympanum by an opening—the fenestra ovalis (the oval window)—to which we have already referred as being closed by the broad part of the stapes. The semicircular canals are three tubes which communicate with the vestibule by five openings. They are dilated at their ends, and two of them unite at one extremity before entering the vestibule. The cochlea is a spiral tube, in shape like the shell of a snail. It consists of two and a half turns, wound round a central pillar called the modiolus (Lat. the nave of a wheel). A thin layer of bone projects from the modiolus, following the convolutions of the cochlea. The cochlea communicates with the tym- panum by an opening called the fenestra rotunda (round window), which is closed by a membrane. The membranous labyrinth lies within the osseous labyrinth, and agrees with it in general form. The space between them is filled with a fluid