78 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGV bustion of carbon ; the element burnt in each case combining with the oxygen of the air. Nearly all combustible substances contain both carbon and hydrogen; hence, when these substances burn, they produce both carbonic acid gas and water. We may illustrate this in the following way :— Hold a dry tumbler over the flame of a candle, and the inside of the glass will be quickly covered with a deposit of water formed by the combustion of the hydrogen in the candle. Repeat the above experiment, and then remove the tumbler, closing it quickly with a glass plate or a piece of cardboard, so as to retain some of the gas produced by the burning of the candle. Now open it just a little, pour in a little clear lime-water, close again quickly, and shake it. The lime-watei turns milky, which proves the presence of carbonic acid gas. The heat of the candle-flame is due to the combustion of carbon and hydrogen; and the carbonic acid gas and water formed may be termed the products of combustion. Organic substances (animal and vegetable substances) are generally prone to decay and putrefaction. This decay is a chemical change by which the organic substance is decomposed into gases which pass off into the air. Thus, a piece of animal flesh contains the elements oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and small quantities of phosphorus and sulphur. And if this flesh be allowed to putrefy, the following gases are slowly given off" into the air:— Water vapour, composed of hydrogen and oxygen. Carbonic acid gas, „ carbon and oxygen, Ammonia, „ nitrogen and hydrogen, Carburetted hydrogen, „ carbon and hydrogen. Sulphuretted hydrogen, „ sulphur and hydrogen. A certain proportion of mineral matter enters into the com- position of all parts of the body, but the proportion varies con- siderably in the various organs and tissues. The amount of mineral substance in any part may be determined by completely burning that part, till nothing but a white ash remains. This ash is the mineral or inorganic substance, all the animal or organic matter having been changed into gases during the combustion. Every tissue and fluid of the body is composed of a number of organic and inorganic compounds -r.-,^ The organic compounds of the body may be classified into— (i) Non-nitrogenous, containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen °"^^'(2) Nitrogenous, containing nitrogen, as well as carboti, ^-"^Son-S compounds include/./, and amyloids, and certain organic acids.