EXAMINATION PAPERS 4. Of what chemical elements are fat and starch composed ? How do fat and starch differ from each other ? What changes does starch and what changes does fat undergo in the alimentary canal ? Where and how are those changes brought about ? (l5) 5. What do the red and white corpuscles of the blood look like when a drop of blood is examined under a high power of the microscope, and how do they differ from each other ? Sta:te an important use of the red corpuscles. (10) 6. What is the most important substance and, next to the water, the most abundant substance present in urine ? Of what chemical_ elements is this substance composed, and how does it come about that the kidneys are always to a greater or less extent engaged in secreting this substance ? (10) 7. How in a dead body can you tell an artery from a vein? What are the chief differences between them, and why are they thus different? _ (lo) 8. What are the two chief parts of the skin, and how do they differ from each other? How does the skin of the lip differ from the skin of the heel, and why ? (10) 9. What differences can be observed, without the aid of any microscope, between [a) a bone just fresh from the body, {b) one which had been dried and kept for some time, and (^r) one which had been steeped in acid for some time? (10) 10. What is meant, in speaking of vision, by " the blind spot," and how can its presence be demonstrated ? What conclusions concerning the nature of sight can be drawn from the existence of the blind spot ? (10) 11. What parts go to form the hip-joint? What movements of the hip- joint can be carried out? How are they limited', and why? (10) 12. Describe the course taken by the air in breathing until it reaches the glottis or pharynx; and explain why it is better to breathe through the nose than through the mouth. (10) 1891. 1. Describe the form, position, and general appearance of the sternum. What is the nature of the material of which it is composed ? What changes of position does it undergo in breathing ? (15) 2. Give an account of what may be seen by examining the right auricle of the heart from the outside. State how you would proceed to lay open the cavity of the right auricle in order to show to the best advantage the structure and relations of the auricle, and carefully describe what may be seen in the auricle thus laid open. (15) 3. Describe the form, position, and general structure of the small intestine. How does the small intestine differ from the large intestine ? State briefly the changes which the food undergoes, (i) in the small, (2) in the large intestine. ' " (15) 4. Give an account of a valve in a vein, describing how it appears when seen by the naked eye or with the help of a lens. Describe its nature, and explain how it works. Which veins possess many valves, which few, and which none at all ? (15) 5. What is the nature of cartilage? How does it differ from bone, and from tendon ? State as fully as you can in what parts of a full-grown body cartilage is found. (lo) 6. Describe the portal vein, stating how it begins, where it runs, and how it ends. Does the blood, as it passes along the portal vein after a full meal has been taken, differ from the blood passing along the same vein when no food has been taken for some time ? and if so, how ? (10)