EXAMINATION PAPERS 237 9. What is the medulla oblongata, and where is it placed ? What is its form and general appearance ? What are its more important functions ? (9) 10. When is the pupil of the eye large, and when is it small? How does it become large, and how does it become small? What purposes are served by these changes in its size ? •,■)?' 11 What is the general composition of urine ? What substances which are present in urine and so leave the body by the kidney, also leave the body by the skin or by the lungs ? What substances present in urine do not leave the body in appreciable quantity by the skin or lungs? , r „ j o 12. When a man faints he generally falls down. Why does he fall down ? 1888. 1. mat structures form the roof, the front wall, and the back wall of the cavity of the abdomen ? Mention the most important organs which he m the cavity of the abdomen, and describe as accurately as you can the general form and position of each of these important organs. (lo) 2. State the exact place in the aorta and in the pulmonary artery where valves are found. Describe the form of these valves, and their nature (as far as can be ascertained without a microscope). Explain exactly what happens to them during and after a contraction of the ventricles. (16) 3. How does the blood in the pulmonary veins differ from the blood in the pulmonary artery ? How is that difference brought about ? Under certain circumstances the blood in these vessels may be almost exactly alike : What are these circumstances ? (16) 4. Give an account of any one of the ribs, say the fifth or sixth, describing its form, and stating how it is connected to other parts of the body. In what ways can it be moved by muscles, and what muscles can move it ? (16) 5. What is meant by a food-stuff? What are the three chief classes of food-stuffs, and how do they differ from each other? Give examples. (9) 6. How are spinal nerves joined on to the spinal cord ? What is the evidence that the two roots have different uses? (9) 7. What is the portal vein? Where does it begin? Where does it end ? Is the blood flowing in the portal vein always of the same quality, or does it varj' ? If so, when and how ? (9) 8. What is cartilage, and how does it differ from bone ? State as fully as you can, all the places in a grown-up body in which cartilage is found. (9) 9. What does a nerve look like when seen with the naked eye ? What is shown by the microscope to be its structure ? What is going on in the nerves of the arm when we move the arm ? (9) 10. What is meant by the clotting of blood, and what changes take place in blood when it clots ? What other fluids in the body, besides blood, clot like blood ? (9) 11. With what part of the nose do we smell? What is the nerve by which we smell ? From what part of the brain does it start, and how does it reach the nose ? Why does closing the nostrils do away with certain so-called tastes ? (9) 12. \Vhat is perspiration, and how is it produced ? What is meant by ' sensible' and ' inseasible' perspiration ? (9)