ELEMENTARY PIIYISOLOGY 2IO to a handle. Fig. 197 represents the same apparatus in section. If we cover the box with a black cloth, we convert it into a ' camera obscura,' that is, a dark chamber in which the images of outside oljjects may, with the aid of the lens, be caught on a screen. If we fill the box with water, the convex surface of the liquid in contact with the watch-glass itself acts as a convex lens, thus producing an image without the use of the latter. The student will now notice that the apparatus just described represents the various important structures of the eye. The wood or metal forming the greater part of the box represents the sclerotic ; the black lining, the choroid; the watch-glais, the Fig. 197, cornea ; and the ground-glass screen, the retina. The diaphragms are to take the place of the iris; and the magnifying-glass that of the crystalline lens. The water in the box represents the humours of the eye ; and by using a transparent material for the back, we are enabled to see the images whicn fall on the ground-glass screen. The following experiments are to be performed in a darkened room :— Place a lighted candle a few feet in front of the watch-glass, and on a level with its centre. Now move the ground-glass screen to and fro between the watch-glass and the back of the box till a distinct inverted image of the candle is thrown on it. The rays of light from the candle, on reaching the watch- glass, are refracted or bent, producing an image (fig. 198). The water is the Fig. 198. refracting medium in this case, and, having a convex surface in contact with the watch-glass, it acts like a convex lens. Thus we haVe illustrated the use of the transparent cornea of the human eye, and also of the watery fluid ^^^Nov/*repeat this experiment, first placing a convex lens behind the watch- glass and notice that the image is formed at a shorter distance than when the water is the only refracting medium (fig. 199)- I" ^'le same manner the crystalline lens assists in the formation of images m the eye, and helps to bring the images forward to such an extent that they are clearly defined on the retina.