THE INTESTINES AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION III STJMMARY OF THE PROCESS OF DIGESTION. Starchy foods Nitrogenous foods Fats Mineral salts gastric Solution commenced in the viotith by the saliva. Continued in the stomach by the swallowed saliva. Completed in the hitestmes hy the intestinal juices Solution commenced in the stomach by the fluid. Continued in the intestines by the gastric fluid which has passed through the pylorus, by the pancreatic fluid, and also (probably) by tl:e intestinal secre- tions. Fat globules loosened hoxix their nitrogenous cell-walls and membranes by the gastric fluid. Digested in the intestines by the bile and the pan- creatic fluid. Dissolved by the various digestive fluids. 1. 2. 4- 5- 6. lO. II. 12. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XIX. Describe the structure of the intestines. In what respects does the mucous membrane of the intestines differ from that of the stomach ? What are the valvulce conniventes ? What are their uses ? Describe the general form and position of the pancreas. What is the nature of the fluid which it secretes ? Describe the action of the pancreatic fluid on various kinds of foods. What are the general properties of the bile 1 Where is it prepared ? Where does it enter the alimentary canal ? What are the uses of the bile ? Wiat is chyme ? Of what does it consist ? Describe the changes which talce place during its formation. In what part of the abdomen does the small intestine communicate with the large intestine ? How do they join ? What is the condition of the contents of the small intestine just before passing into the large intes- What changes does the food undergo in the large intestine? Describe the nature of the food materials in a beef-steak pudding. Where are these materials digested? Name the fluid or fluids con- cerned in the digestion of each. Describe the action of the gastric fluid, the pancreatic fluid, and the bile, respectively, on fatty tissue. LESSON XX. ABSORPTION. The object of the present lesson is to show how the nutritious matter derived from the food during the process of digestion enters into the blood system. Food is taken in order to repair the waste which is continuaU^