140 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 7. Describe the condition of the heart and its valves (i) just before the con- traction of the ventricles, and (2) just after this' contraction. S. What is the use of the chordic Undinecc'i 9. Describe fully the action of the semilunar valves. When are they shut and when open ? What shuts them ? ' 10. What do you mean Ijy the beating of the heart ? At what rate does the heart beat ? 11. Describe the sounds of the heart. How are they produced ? 12. What is the pulse? What causes the pulsation of blood in the arteries? Why is there no pulsation in the capillaries and the veins ? 13. How does the blood flow from (i) a cut artery, and (2) a cut vein ? 14. Describe the course of the blood as it passes from the right to the left side of the heart ; and also as it flows from the left to the right side. 15. What is the shortest course the blood can take? 16. Give proofs that the blood circulates. LESSON XXIV. THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS. The trachea consists of a series of cartilaginous hoops, shaped like the letter C, and arranged so as to be complete before and deficient behind. These rings are surrounded externally by fibrous connective tissue, which also joins their extremities, thus completing the tube behind ; it also fills in the spaces between the rings. It will thus be seen that the trachea is a resistant and elastic tube, which, though always open for the passage of air, will yield with the bending of the neck, and will also allow of the distension of the oesophagus, which lies against its posterior portion where the cartilage is absent. The two upper cartilaginous rings, which are much larger than the others, form the framework of the larynx. The first, called the thyroid cartilage (Gr. thureos, a shield; and eidos, form), is very wide in front, forming the prominence known as Adam's apple, but is open behind, and is connected by means of ligaments and muscles with a small U-shaped bone, the hyoid hone (Gr. letter v; and eidos, form), situated just above it. The second cartilage is the only complete ring in the windpipe. It is called the cricoid cartilage (Gr. krikos, ring ; and eidos, form). Its broadest portion is behind, while in front it is so narrow that a space is left between it and the first, this space being occupied by the fibrous tissue. Of course, this second ring will not so freely admit of the disten- sion of the oesophagus behind it, and this will account for the sharp pain we experience in the upper part of the throat when we swallow a large and hard substance, such as a solid piece of food which has not been properly masticated.