208 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY between these structures and the cornea in front. The crystalhnc lens measures about .i,rd of an inch in diameter, and consists of layers, one within another, like the onion. If the lens be hardened in alcohol, these layers may be easily separated from each other. The crystalline lens is surrounded by a membrane called the capsule, and is kept firmly in its place by a strong and elastic frame called the suspensory ligament, which extends from the capsule to the ciliary processes of the choroid. This ligament keeps the crystalline lens in a state of tension. Muscular fibres radiate backwards from the junction of the cornea and the sclerotic, and are attached to the outer surface of the choroid coat. These fibres form the ciliary muscle. When they contract they pull the choroid forward, causing the suspen- sory ligament to relax. This in turn causes the crystalline lens, which is also elastic, to shorten its diameter and become more convex. The space between the cornea in front and the iris and lens behind is filled with a watery fluid known as the aqueous humour, and the whole of the globe of the eye behind the crystalline lens is filled with a transparent semi-solid substance called the vitreous humour (Lat. vitreus, glassy). We shall now perform a few experiments to illustrate the uses of the various structures of the eye :— Hold a convex lens so that it faces the sun, and place behind it a sheet ol paper or a piece of ground glass to act as a screen. If we move the lens to or from the screen, we shall notice that, when at a certain distance from the latter, a very bright spot is produced by the meeting of the rays which pass through it. Hence we learn that, wlien rays of light pass through a convex lens, they converge to one point (the focus) (fig. 193). Now take the lens into a room which is illuminated only by a smgle candle- flame and turn the lens to face this flame at the distance of a few feet, agam holding the screen behind. We now notice that, at a certain distance from the lens we get a sharp, distinct, and inverted image of the flame on the screen. Since the image is inverted, we know that the rays from the candle have crossed each other previous to the formation of the image (fig. 194). _ If we bring the candle-flame nearer to the lens we shall observe that the distmct image is formedbehind (fig. I95)> and vice versd. Thus, if we want a permanent distinct image of a moving object, we must keep the screen in a