THE INTESTINES AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION I09 A simple experiment will enable us to understand the meaning of the term enmlsifies. Pour into a glass vessel about an ounce of water, and then a little oil or melted fat (if the latter, the water should be hot). The two liquids remain quite distinct, the oil or fat floating on the water. Now shake the mixture vigorously, and the oil or fat is separated into globules which are dis- tributed throughout the water ; but, on allowing the mixture to rest for a short time, the liquids separate again. Hence we say that oil is insoluble in water. Next, add a little alkali (potash or soda) to the mixture and shake it again. At once a milky fluid is formed, which is termed an emulsion. The fat or oil has been separated by the alkali into extremely minute particles which remain diffused throughout the liquid. The bile is a yellow or greenish-yellow fluid, also slightly alka- line, having the following composition :— Water 859-2 parts /Bilin .... Fat. . . . Solids \ Cholesterin Mucus and colouring matter I Salts .... 91-5 9-2 2-6 29-8 77 lOOO'O The bile is secreted continuously, at the rate of from thirty to forty ounces daily. If not needed, at once for digestion, it passes into the gall-bladder, where it is stored until required. If digestion is going on, it passes direct from the liver, where it is secreted, to the duodenum. The chief uses of the bile as a digestive fluid are (i) to assist in emul- sifying fats, (2) to moisten the mucous membrane of the intestine, and (3) to act as a natural purgative by assisting the muscular motions and the secretion r/ of the intestines. When the chyme passes into the small intestine, it is soon mingled with the pancreatic fluid, the bile, and the secretions of the intestinal glands; and these fluids, together with the saliva and the gastric fluid which form part of the chyme, complete the process of digestion. All kinds of foods are now being dissolved, and by the worm-like motions kept up by the muscular fibres of the intestines, the whole is urged slowly on. The dissolved portions are rapidly absorbed by the mucous mem- Fig. 105.—The Ileo-csecal Valve. a, ileum ; b, ascending colon ; c, cae. cum ; d, junction of the caecum and colon ; e and f, loose folds of the mucous membrane, forming the ileo-caecal valve ; g, vermiform appendage-