ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY I04 the nature of the food taken ; but it is generally a thick, milky, acid fluid, possessing a disagreeable odour. ' 'Hie changing of the food into chyme by the gastric fluid is called chymification. The average time occupied in producing this change is from three to four hours. The information we possess concerning these changes in the stomach is the result of a number of observations made on living and on recently-killed animals ; and not a little is due to the investigations of Dr. Beaumont who had an opportunity of witnessing the action of the gastric fluid in a Canadian whose stomach had been perforated by a bullet. Dr. Beaumont introduced various substances into his stomach, and noted the time required to chymifv various foods, A few of the results obtained are as follows :— Time occupied in Chymiflcation. Boiled rice Boiled tripe Raw apples Boiled salmon . Boiled sago Boiled, cured cod-fish Boiled beans Sponge cake Baked potatoes. Roasted goose . Boiled gelatine. Broiled lamb . Boiled beef Boiled apple dumplings Hours I I 2k 4 2h Roasted beef . Boiled mutton . Boiled carrots . Roasted mutton Bread Boiled potatoes Boiled turnips . Cheese Boiled eggs (hard) Fried eggs Boiled cabbage. Boiled or roasted fow Roasted pork . Boiled gristle . Hours 3 3 3.^ 3^- si 3i 3* 4 4 5^- 5h Some albuminous substances, such as casein (of milk), are coagulated or curdled by the gastric fluid, thus becoming solid before being digested. The soluble and diffusible substances formed by the action of the gastric fluid on albuminous foods are called peptones. These peptones are at once fit for absorption, and are to a certain ex- tent taken up by the mucous membrane of the stomach, and pass into the blood circulation. SUMMARY. CESOPHAGTIS Narrowest portion of alimentary canal. Length about 9 inches. Communicates between pharynx and stomach. Pass- ing through the diaphragm. ,1. Outer muscular I Coats Circular fibres. ■ 2. Middle areolar (filamentous). 1 3. Inner mucous.