EXAMINATION PAPERS 5. What is the nature of the secretion formed by the pancreas ? What is the use of pancreatic juice ? What circumstances lead to the most plentiful flow of pancreatic juice, and how do tliey act? (10) 6. What is the general nature and appearances of "connective tissue'| ? Where is connective tissue found in the body, and what are its exact uses in each place you mention where it occurs ? (10) 7. Where is the spleen placed in the body? What is its shape and general structure and appearance ? From where does the spleen get its blood supply, and to where does the blood go when it leaves the spleen? (10) 8. When an animal is copiously fed, it gains in weight. To what is this gain in weight chiefly due, and how is it brought about ? Does the body of a well-fed (fattening) animal get rid of more or less waste than that of a poorly-fed one ? (10) 9. What is the general nature and structure of an artery ? What evidence is obtainable in a dead body, and what evidence can be obtained in a living body that the blood really circulates? (10) 10. What bones go to make up the foot and ankle, and how are they arranged? In what way does their arrangement (i) resemble, (li) difier from, the arrangement of the bones of the hand and wrist? (10) 11. What is perspiration or sweat? Of what is it chiefly composed? What is its use, and what causes lead to a person sweating at one time much, and at another time but little ? (10) 12. What is the organ of taste? What is its general structure, and what are the special features in its structure by which we are enabled to taste ? Why does a bad cold in the head largely do away with our powers of tasting? (ip) 1898. 1. How is the diaphragm placed in the body ? Of what two kinds of tissue is it chiefly made up, and how do these act in carrying on the work of breathing ? What structures pass through the diaphragm, and where do they pass through it ? (15) 2. Where are valves found in the heart ? . How are they attached to the heart ? How do they work when the heart is beating so as to make the heart act as a force-pump ? (15) 3. What are the essential differences between the blood in the right and the left sides of the heart? Where does the blood come from to reach each side of the heart ? What has caused the difference between the two kinds of blood? (i^) 4. What differences can be seen between a large artery and a large vein when dissected out of a dead body ? What difference is there between the general way arteries and veins are usually placed in the body, and what experiments or observations can you make on yourself to show this difference in their position ? (15) 5. Through what part of the alimentary canal does the food pass after it leaves the mouth and before it enters the stomach? What is the general nature and structure of this part of the alimentary canal ? By what means is the food made to pass through it? (10) 6. How is the bone of the upper arm (humerus) attached to the body ? How and by what means can this bone be moved, and why can it be moved more freely than the bone of the leg at the hip-joint? (10) ^ 7. What do you understand by the expression "the clotting of blood '?