structures in the skin which correspond to these uses ? (9) EXAMINATION PAPERS. Insteuctions. If the rules a7-e not attended to, the pape?- will he cancelled. You may take the Elementary, or the Advanced, or the Honours paper, but you must confine yourself to one of them. Put the number of the question before your answer. The value attached to each question is shown in brackets after the question, but a full and correct answer to an easy question will in all cases secure a larger number of marks than an incomplete or inexact answer to a more diffi- cult one. TJie Exa?nination in this subject lasts for three hours. You are permitted to atte7npt only eight questions. Elementary Stage. i88' 1. How many ribs have you ? Where are they placed ? How do they move ? What moves them ? What purpose is served by their moving ? How do the lower ribs differ from the upper ones? (i6) 2. When you cut open a large vein and see the valves, what do they look like ? Describe a simple method of proving on your own body how the valves of the veins act. What is the use of the valves, and what would happen if the valves of the veins of the leg were absent or did not act ? (i6) 3. What do you understand by the abdominal cavity ? How are its walls formed ? What part of the alimentary canal is placed in it and what is not ? What is the general disposition of that part of the alimentary canal which lies in the abdominal cavity ? (16) 4. Of what chemical elements is the fat of meat composed ? Of what chemical elements is the lean of meat composed ? Why is it possible to live on the lean of meat alone, but not on the fat alone ? And why is it best to eat both lean and fat ? (16) 5. When a man gets a large piece of meat in his windpipe, he is choked, and when he goes into foul air, such as ' choke-damp,' or is shut up in a con- fined space, he is also choked or suffocated. What is the immediate cause of the choking or suffocation which takes place in both these cases ? (9) 6. _ What is the pulmonary artery ? Where does it start from and where does it lead to? Describe carefully the appearance of certain structures which may be seen in it just as it springs from the heart. (9) • 7. Of what two parts is the skin composed, and how do they differ from each other ? What are the most important uses of the skin, and what are the