ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 40 LESSON VI. THE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF BONE. Weigh a bone of a rabbit, sheep, or other animal, and then put it into a hot and clear fire. Let it remain till it is at a red heat throughout. Now remove it carefully from the fire, let it cool, and weigh again. It will be noticed that the bone has lost about one-third of its original weight, and that what remains is a white and brittle substance. That which has been burnt away by the fire is the organic or animal matter of the bone ; while that which remains is the earthy or mineral substance, sometimes called the ash. From this we learn that bone consists of about thirty-three per cent, of animal matter, and about sixty-seven per cent, of mineral matter. The proportion of animal to mineral substance is not the same in all bones. The sternum and the scapiila contain a smaller proportion of mineral matter than other bones. The flexible bones of a young child also contain little mineral substance, while the brittle bones of aged persons contain a much larger proportion. In the above experiment we completely destroyed the animal matter, and obtained the pure mineral substance or hone ash. By the following experiment we shall be able to dissolve out all the mineral substance, and thus obtain the animal matter :— Place a bone taken from a recently killed animal in a vessel of weak hydrochloric {muriatic) acid {one part of the strong acid to about six of water), and let it remain for a day or two completely covered by the acid. Now pour off the liquid, and cover the bone with fresh acid, setting it aside agam for some time. It will be noticed that the bone gradually becomes softer under this treatment, till at last it is flexible and elastic, like a piece of india- rubber. This is due to the gradual removal of the mineral substance it con- tained. This experiment teaches us that the hardness of hone is due to its mineral matter, and that the animal substance resembles cartilage or gristle. In this experiment we notice also that the mass of animal matter retains the form of the bone from which it was obtained. In our first experiment, too, we found that the mass of mmeral substance was also of the same form as the bone. Hence we conclude that both animal and mineral substances are weU blended together in the bones. The animal matter of bone may be converted mto gelatme in the following manner :— Take some bones that have been recently removed from the body of an animal, break them in pieces, and boil them in water for a considerable time. After this pour off the liquid and let it cool. As it does so it will iorm a