EXAMINATION PAPERS 235 1885. 1. What is the shape of the human thorax or chest? What structures form its walls ? Name all the important organs which are contained in it, and state the position of each. (16) 2. In what important respects does the blood in the pulmonary veins differ from the blood in the pulmonary artery ? Describe the structures in which the bronchial tubes end, and explain how these structures are adapted for bringing about the above differences. (16) 3. Describe what is seen when the right auricle of the heart is laid bare in a sheep's or bullock's heart, and give an account of the walls of the auricle, and of the position and characters of the several openings leading into and out of the auricle. Why does the blood not flow back into the veins when the auricle contracts ? (16) 4. Describe carefully the form and position of the stomach. Of what structures are the walls of the stomach composed ? What parts of an ordi- nary meal are digested in the stomach, and what parts are digested else- where? (16; 5. Of what parts is a tooth composed ? How do these parts differ from each other ? How is a tooth fastened into the jaw ? (9) 6. What is the position of the kidneys, and what is their general structure? \Vhat changes take place in the body when the kidneys are so injured or diseased that they are no longer able to secrete urine ? (9) 7. In what parts of the body are no blood-vessels found ? How are these parts nourished ? (9) 8. What is the medulla oblongata ? Where is it placed? Why does an animal generally die when the medulla oblongata is seriously injured ? (9) 9. In what parts of the body is connective tissue found ? What does it look like when examined by the naked eye, and what does the microscope show it to be composed of ? ^g-^ 10. What, in speaking of the eye, is meant by the ' blind spot' ? How may its existence be shown? What conclusions may be drawn from its pre- sence ? 11. What is the thoracic duct? Where does it end ? What does it con- tain after an ordinary meal ? What does it contain when no food has been taken for some time ? 12. Sometimes persons are killed by sleeping in a close room m which a charcoal stove is burning. What is it, in such a case, which kills them ? (9) 1886. 1. About_how much air do we take into the chest at a breath' What makes it go m ? What makes it come out ? What is the effect on the lunes of trying to take a deep breath, if, while trying to take it, we keep the note and mouth tightly closed ? ^ 2. What is the composition of fat, and how does it differ from that of sugar ? What is meant by the digestion of fat ? Where and how does it take PlD.CC . / A\ h.^f what parts is the wrist-joint made up ? How do the movements of the hand which you can make at the wrist-joint differ from those of the foot which you can make at the ankle-joint, and why ? 4- How, in a living body, does the blood flow from a cut artery • and how &stoo !hTb,; 1"^'^ ^^^''"^"^ cases? 1?o'w can you best stop the bleeding from a cut artery, and how from a cut vein ? (16) .