THE SPINAL CORD Thus we learn that the anterior roots consist of efferent or motor fibres only. . • ^ovf 2 If the posterior root of the nerve supplying a certaui pait is similarly injured, the animal will still have control over the voluntary muscles of that part just as if nothmg had happened, but the part will have lost all power of sensation. Again, if the root is divided, any irritation applied to the portion in contact Avith the cord will cause more or less pain; but no effect is produced by the irrita- tion of the other part. Therefore we conclude that the posterior roots consist of sensory or afferent fibres only. Similar observa- tions teach us that the spinal nerves, formed by the union of the anteiior and posterior roots, are mixed nerves, that is, nerves com- posed of both sensory and motor fibres. For, if the spinal nerve sup- plying a certain part of the body is injured to such an extent that its fibres are severed, both sensation and voluntary movement are lost to that part. Further, any irrita- tion received by that portion of the nerve Fig. 174.—IllustratiTig the Functions of th.o Eoots of the Spinal Nerves. n, anterior root; /, posterior root. Divided at a.—Irritated at i : no result. Irritated at 2 : contraction of muscles supplied with fibres from the root. Divided at p.—Irritated at 3 : no result. Irritated at 4 : pain produced. Fig. 175.—Illustrating the Functions of the Spinal Nerves. Divided at a.—Irritated at i : pain. Irritated at 2 ; muscular contraction. still in communication with the cord will produce sensation; Avhile irritation to the other portion will cause muscular contraction. It is an interesting fact that, when the portion of a divided spinal nerve which remains in communication with the brain is irritated, or, when the corresponding portion of a divided sensory root is irritated, the sensation is not felt at the point where the irritation is applied, but is always referred to the part in which the fibres of the divided nerve or root icrminate. Thus, if