ABSORPTION Fig. 110.—The Tho- racic Duct. r, the thoracic duct, in front of the vertebral column ; its upper ex- tremity communicating with the venous system at the junction of the left jugular and left sub- clavian veins (compare with fig. 6); 2, recep- ticulum chyli; 3, in- ferior vena cava, lower portion ; 4, superior vena cava. digested food-substances, only an extremely thin layer of tissue separating. Hence in the villi absorption goes on very rapidly, both by the blood-vessels and the lacteals. This is also supplemented by means of other blood-vessels and lacteals which lie in the mucous membrane behveen the villi, andValso in the corresponding membrane of the large intestine where there are no villi. The absorption as carried on by the lac- teals differs in one important respect from that by the blood-vessels, since the former have the power to select the fatty constitu- ents from the various products of digestion, while the latter possess no power of selection. During fasting the lacteals contain a clear, transparent fluid, closely resembling that which fills the other lymphatic capillaries; but during digestion they contain a milky fluid called chyle (Gr. chulos, juice), the change in appearance being due to the innumerable particles of fatty matter absorbed from the intestine. The chyle is collected by lymphatic vessels, which resemble thin-walled veins (see page 131)= Like veins, they are also provided with valves which allow of the passage of fluid in one direction only, viz. towards the thoracic duct', and the valves are arranged at such short distances from each other, that, when full, the lymph-vessels have a knotted or beaded appearance. As the chyle moves onward, and especially as it passes through the lymphatic glands, the number of oily particles diminishes, cor- puscles resembhng the white corpuscles. of the blood (see page 117), and a nitrogenous substance called fibrin are formed : in fact, as it approaches the blood system which it is ultimately to enter, it becomes more and more like blood, excepting in the matter of red corpuscles which give the colour. We may therefore regard the lymphatic glands as being concerned in the elaboration of the blood. I 2