ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 2 LESSON II THE SKELETON. Bones of the Trunk. Having briefly considered the general build of the body, we will now study more jnrticularly the nature of the skeleton. This book deals exclusively with the structure and functions of the human body; and, unless otherwise stated, the illustrations all refer to man. Ne\ertheless, it must be remembered that the structure of the human body is in all its broadest features similar to that of many of the lower animals; so much so, that a descrip- tion of the human body may be illustrated by the dissection of one of these animals. It is very desirable, therefore, that even beginners in the study of human physiology should examine the bodies or parts of such animals as can be conveniently procured. Thus, a knowledge of the position and uses of the various parts of the skeleton may be obtained by a thoughtful inspection of the bones of a rabl-it. Or the student may easily prepare for himself a complete skeleton of any small animal by burying the body juKt beneath the suiface of a wet soil. In a few weeKS the llesh will have decomposed to such an extent that the skeleton may be washed clean in running water, and afterwards bleached by exposure to the sun. \\'e shall first study the backbone, or central portion of the skeleton, and the bones directly connected with it. The backbone, vertebral column, or spinal columa is com- posed of a series of bones called vertebrcc (Lat. verto. I turn), and forms a kind of axis with which all the other parts of the skeleton are connected. The base of the skull rests on the uppermost of these vertebi-ffi, and the lower portion of the column is wedged in between the bones of the hip. The backbone is usually said to consist of thirty-three bones, but only twenty-four of these are jointed in such a manner as to be movable on each other, viz. the bones of the neck, back, and loins. The lower part of the column consists of nine bones fused together. The seven highest vertebra belong to the neck, and are called the cervical vertebrae (Lat. cervix, the neck). The next twelve are called the dorsal vertebree (Lat. dorsum, the back); these belong to the back and support the ribs. The remaining five movable vertebrae belong to the loins, and are called the lumbar (Lat. lumoiis, the loin) The lowest lumbar vertebra rests on the broad surface of a