THE EYE AND VISION 213 and should wear convex glasses to assist the convergence of the it may now be asked, if the images of objects on the retina are inverted, how is it that we do not see the objects themselves inverted? In answer to this we may say that we do not see with the retina, but with the brain. The rays of light make impressions on the nerve-endings in the retina, but there is no sense of vision until the disturbances in these nerve-termmations are transmitted through the optic nerve and reach the brain, which is the seat of all sensation. The retina is not equally sensitive in all parts. A certain point almost exactly opposite the centre of the_ pupil is by far the most sensitive to luminous impressions. It is marked by a slight depression of surface, of a pale yellowish colour, and is called the macula lutea, or yellow spot (fig. 190). When we look at an object, that part of it is most distinctly defined in the retinal image which is in a straight line with the yellow spot and the centre of the pupil. When we wish, therefore, to see an object as clearly as possible, it is necessary to turn the eyeballs so that it shall be on this line—the axis of vision. The optic nerve enters the back of the eyeball at a point about •^Vth of an inch from the yellow spot on the nasal side. This point is insensible to light, and is known as the blind spot. To prove this, close the left eye, and look steadfastly on the left dot below with the right, holding the page at a distance of about a foot. Now move the book very sloivly towards the eye, keeping it still steadily fixed on the left dot. At a certain point (generally about six inches from the eye) the right dot will suddenly disappear, owing to its image falling on the blind spot; but, on bringing the book nearer, it will reappear as its image leaves this point. The retina has the power of retaining the impressions made on it for a short time—about -^th of a second. Consequently, the falling raindrops often look like lines, the spokes of a rapidly re- volving wheel do not hide objects behind them, and a lighted stick moved very rapidly appears as a line of light. The sensibility of the retina is readily exhausted. Thus, if we look at a very bright light for a time, that portion of the retina on which its image falls soon becomes exhausted ; so that, if we turn from the bright light and look on a sheet of white paper, we see a dark spot. The rays of light from the apparently dark spot fall on the part of the retina which has been exhausted.