ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 66 I QUESTIONS ON LESSON XI. Describe the structures which surround the cavities of the nos- 2. In what way is the cavity of the nose separated from that of the brain ' 3. Describe the structure of the pa/a^e. 4- description of ihc p/iatynx. What are the openings leading 5. Describe the positions, and compare the structures of the hac/iea and of the (xsophagus, 6. Describe the course taken by food and drink after leaving the mouth. 7. What is the course taken by the air during ordinary breathing (i) When the mouth is closed, and (2) When the mouth is open ? 8. Describe the position and use of the epiglottis. 9. What do we mean when we say that a particle of food has ' jrone the wrong way' ? LESSON XII. THE ORGANS OF THE THORAX. The thorax or chest contains— The trachea and its branches. The lungs. The heart and its great vessels. The oesophagus. The trachea or wind-pipe passes downward from the throat into the thorax ; and in the upper part of this cavity it divides into two branches called bronchi. One of these (the right bronchus) leads into the right lung, and the other (the left bronchus) into the left lung. These bronchi divide and sub- divide in the substance of the lungs till their branches (bronchial tubes) penetrate every part of those organs. The lungs or lights are two large spongy organs which occupy the greater portion of the thorax. They are quite distinct from each other, although at some parts their adjacent surfaces are in contact. A large portion of the volume of the lungs is occupied by the air-tubes (branches of the trachea) and the little air-cells in which they terminate; hence the extreme lightness of these organs. To show this lightness a lung or a part of one may be floated on water. The general character and appearance of these organs may be learnt by examining the lights of a sheep or smaller animal, but it must be remembered that during life the organs are much larger, being inflated with air. The heart is a hollow muscular organ situated nearly in the middle of the front and lower part of the chest, just above the