THE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF BONE 45 INVESTMENT . Articular Carti- lage. ICovers articulating surfaces. Smooth. Covered with synovial membrane. Periosteum Strong fibrous membrane. ■ Covers the bone with the exception of articulating surfaces. ' About in. in diameter. Run lengthwise through the compact tissue. MINUTE STRUCTURE, Haversian Canals \ Branched. Contain blood-vessels. Cummunicate with lacttnce hy means of canaliculi. i Surround Haversian canals in rings, k Lacunae ... -I Give off canaliculi in all directions. I Absorb and distribute nutriment. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VL 1. How would you remove the animal matter from bone, so as to obtain the mineral substance it contains ? 2. How would you obtain gelacine from bone ? 3. What is bone ash ? How would you obtain it ? 4. How would you remove the whole of the mineral or earthy substance from a bone, in order to get the animal matter ? 5. Describe the composition of bone. Do bones vary at all in composition ? If so, give illustrations. 6. WTiat are the differences between the bones of a young child, the bones of a middle-aged adult, and the bones of persons of extreme age ? 7. Describe the different kinds of bones, pointing out their variations in structure. 8. What is marrow ? What is its use ? 9. Compare the structure of the pa-rietal bone with that of the femur. JO. With what kinds of covering are bones invested ? 11. How are bones supplied with blood ? 12. Describe the mimtte structure of bone, as revealed by the microscope. Illustrate your description by sketches. By removing the skin which forms the exterior covering of the body, we expose to view masses of flesh or muscle (see fig. 3), similar in appearance and structure to what we call lean meat, which is really the muscle of the various animals used for food. The general character of muscle may well be studied by examining a piece of beef. It is reddish in colour, but this is due to the presence of blood, which circulates through every part of it. LESSON VII. THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM.