23 THE SKELETON that the lower jaw has not only a vortical movement, hut is capable also ol mol'ion sideways and backwards and forwards. _ It will be observed that several bones enter into the formation of the orbits or sockets of the eyes. The upper part of each orbit is formed by the frontal and sphenoid bones ; the inner portion by the lachrymal plate ; the lower portion by the superior maxillary ; and the outer portion by the malar or cheek-bone. These orbits (Lat. orbita, a track in which a body turns) con- tain the eyeballs, the muscles which turn the eyeball, and a certain anaount of fatty matter which acts as a padding to protect the delicate organ of vision. We must now notice how the head turns on the vertebral column. It has already been seen that the skull rocks or nods Y\g. 23.—The Atlas, or First Cervical Vertebra; viewed from ahove. 1, the anterior arch; 2, the posterior arch ; 3, spinal cavity ; 4, lateral processes ; 5 marks the position of the odontoid peg of the axis ; 6, concave surfaces whicli articulate with the occipital bone. The dotted line marks the position of the ligament which secures the peg. The body is absent, but is represented by the odontoid peg of the axis. Fig. 24. —The Axis, or Second Cervical Vertebra. A, viewed from .above and behind ; b, viewed from the right side ; i, odontoid process ; 2, body; 3, spinal cavity ; 4, lateral processes ; 5, spinal process. on the vertebral axis by means of a pair of joints, formed by projections {condyles) of the occipital bone, and the corresponding depressions or sockets in the first cervical vertebra, the atlas. But, were these the only joints permitting a movement of the head, that motion would be restricted to nodding. We know, however, that the head turns freely to right and left. This is explained as follows. The second cervical vertebra, the axis, sends upward a tooth-like projection called the odontoid process (Gr. odoiis^ tooth ; and eidcs, form). This peg forms an axis on which the atlas turns, and is kept in its position against the front inner surface of the atlas by means of a powerful ligament. Thus, when the head