64 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY ence in the front of the throat which is sometimes called Adam's apple. It is the larynx or voice-box, so called because it contains the vocal cords by the vibration of which the voice is produced. The trachea, including the larynx, is composed of rings cartiInge or gristle, connected by means of soft fibrous tissue; and this will account for the irregularity or roughness experienced by pressing the fingers down the front of the throat. The opening leading from the pharynx into the larynx is called the glottis. It is surmounted by a cartilaginous lid called the epiglottis (Gr. e/>i, upon) which opens and shuts like the lid of a box. During breathing, speaking, &c., the glottis is open, the epi- glottis being in the position shown in fig. 75; but during the act of swallowing, just at the moment when food or drink is passing the top of the larynx, the glottis is closed, thus preventing any solid or liquid matter from entering the trachea. We may now trace the course taken by air during the act of inspi- ration. If the mouth is closed, the air inspired passes through the nostrils and then along the loAver part of the nasal cavities. It next enters the pharynx by means of two openings called the posterior nares or posterior nostrils, one of which leads from each nasal cavity. The air then passes down the pharynx, through the glottis, to the larynx and trachea, and thence into the lungs. If the mouth is open during ordinary breathing, some of the air still passes through the nose, taking the course just described. That which enters the mouth takes a shorter course, passing direct from the mouth into the pharynx ; and then, joining the former current, goes with it through the glottis, the larynx, and the trachea. The pharynx has seven passages communicating with it. Five of these have already been mentioned. They are— {a) The passages (posterior nares), leading from the nasal cavities. (b) One communicating with the mouth. {c) The oesophagus. (d) The larynx. Fig. 76.—Section of the Face and Neck, Showing the direction taken by the air during breathing, &c.