SENSATIONS—TOUCH are distinctly local in their character. Such sensations are called special sensations. Others are not localised, but are produced through the agency of nerves which are very widely distributed. These sensations are called common or general sensations, and by them we are made aware of the general condition of the body. Among the common sensations may be mentioned pain, warmth, hunger, fatigue, and faintness. Although some of these sensations are sometimes distinctly localised, yet, at the same time, they are accompanied by a general sensation. For instance, during hunger a distinct pain is felt in the region of the stomach, while there is also a feeling of general discomfort. One of the common sensations is that which has been termed the 'muscular sense.' It is that sensation by which we become acquainted with the condition of the muscles. Although the mind may be unconscious of the existence of the muscles of any particular part, yet it is made aware of their condition, and is able to regulate their contraction with extreme precision. Thus, when walking on a windy day, we incline our bodies in proportion to the force of the wind. A person, by means of this sense, may perform such complicated acts as writing or pianoforte-playing without the aid of sight. It is the muscular sense which enables us to estimate the weight of a body by the effort required to lift it. We are most conscious of this muscular sensation when we make the muscles rigid by an effort of the will. The special sensations are five in number. They d,re—toicch, smell, taste, sight, and hearing. Sensations are also classified as objective and subjective. Those sensations which are produced by external objects or conditions are called objective sensations. Sometimes, however, the exciting cause is a peculiar condition of the cerebrum itself, and the sensations thus produced are termed subjective. As examples of these may be mentioned noises in the ears, flashes of light before the eyes, and peculiar odours experienced when there is no external cause to produce them. The mind generally refers such sensations to external objects, and hence arise illusions. Sensation may be produced by the irritation of a sensory nerve without the agency of the corresponding organ of sense. Thus, the sensation of sound may be produced by the irritation of the auditory nerve. The irritation of a nerve of special sense however, does not produce pain. The sense of touch, is sometimes classed among the general sensations, inasmuch as it is very widely distributed, and is so closely allied to feeling and pain, which are general sensations. But touch proper is a sensation by which we gain a knowledge of the external world, while feeling and pain are sensations by which Q