ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY Ii6 The lymphatic capillaries in other parts of the body have their origin in the spaces between the various structures. Their office is to collect the fluid part of the blood which exudes through the walls of the blood-vessels, and substances which, though having once formed part of a tissue, are not yet waste materials, but are capable ■ of reorganisation, and may therefore be adapted for nutrition. The lymph thus absorbed by the lyDiphatic capillaries is col- lected by the lymphatic vessels, and transmitted through lymphatic glands, becoming more and more like blood (excepting in colour) as it proceeds. All the lymphatic vessels, including those which convey the chyle from the intestines, finally empty their contents into one of the two lymphatic ducts. The smaller of these, called the right lymphatic duct, enters a large vein at the right side of the root of the neck. The larger duct—the thoracic duct—lies just in front of the vertebral column. Its lower end, situated in the upper portion of the abdomen, is four or five times as wide as the upper part, and is called the receptaculum chyli or receptacle of the chyle. The remainder of the duct lies at the back of the thorax, and its upper end leads into a larger vein at the root of the neck on the left side. Thus we have been able to trace the passage of food materials from the mouth, till they finally enter the blood system. SUMMARY. { Absorption by Blood- vessels LYMPHATIC SYSTEM Lacteals Other Lymphatics Crlands I Thoracic duct From the mucous membrane in all parts of the alimentary canal. No power of selection— Every kind of food absorbed if dissolved, or if so finely divided that it can permeate the walls of the blood capillaries. / The lymphatics of the intestines. Many originate in the villi of the small intestine. During digestion—a milky fluid Contain {chyle). Dtiringfasiing - di watery fluid. Absorb fatty substances. Absorb the fluid portion of blood (lymph) which has exuded through the blood-vessels. Also other substances for reorganisation. Engaged in elaborating blood from the lymph and chyle. In front of backbone, chiefly in thorax. Receptaculum chyli—lower portion—situ- ated in the abdomen. Receives lymph and chyle, and pours them \ into the blood system.