ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY i8o IS mother), wliich is very tough and fibrous. Its outer surface jo rough, and in contact with the inner surface of the skull, while the inner surface is smooth, and is opposed to the outer surface of the arachnoid. The brain consists of several parts, the chief of which are :— 1. The cerebrum or greater brain, which fills all the upper and frontal portion of the cranium, and weighs about nine-tenths as much as the entire brain. 2. The cerebellum or lesser brain, which lies underneath the back portion of the cerebrum. 3. The pons Varolii (Lat. J>ons, a bridge), a broad band or bridge of nerve matter which connects the right and left portions of the cerebellum, passing round the medulla. 4. The medulla oblon- gata (Lat. oblong marrow), which connects the brain with the spinal cord. If we make a section of the brain, we may observe the arrangement of the white and grey nervous matter composing it. In the cerebrum and cere- bellum we find the grey matter surrounding the white matter, while in the medulla oblongata the ar- rangement is reversed. The student, remembering the soft semi-solid condition of the brains of an animal, may be- at a loss to know how a section of the organ is to be made ; therefore we give the following simple and easy method by which the brain may be hardened and afterwards cut for examination :—Place the complete but skinned head of a rabbit or other animal mto a jar of methylated spirit, and let it remain in this for a few weeks. At the end of this time dissect away all the flesh, leaving the skull clean, at least 011 the whole upper surface. Now, with a small fret-saw, cut gentlythrough the^ skull in several directions, and remove the bone, piece by piece, tjll the brain has been entirely exposed. If the brain seems still too soft to handle, let it soak in the spirit a little longer. It will be noticed that several nerves pass from the under surface of the brain through openings in the bones, and it will be well to preserve the origins of these nerves attached to the bram as far as possible. The cerebrum consists of two large hemispheres, the right and Yig, 165.—Section through the Cerebral Hemispheres, showing the arrangement of the White and Grey Matter.