ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 2l6 QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXV. 1. What structures form the orliit of the eye? What does the orbit contain? 2. How is the ball of the eye protected from injury ? 3. How are the eyelids moved ? 4. Describe the arrangement of the muscles which move the eyeball. De- scribe also the action of each muscle. 5. Where do the tears come from ? Why do the tears roll over the cheeks when people cry ? 6. Are tears produced at all times ? If so, what becomes of them ? 7. Describe the structure of the ball of the eye. 8. Where is the cornea '! What is its use ? 9. What is the 2>/j ? Where is it placed? What is its use? How does it act? 10. What is the pupill How and why does it change in size ? 11. What is the relina'i Where is it situated ? Which portion of the retina is most sensitive, and which portion is quite unaffected by light ? 12. Through what parts of the eye must light pass before it reaches the retina ? 13. What is meant by ' long-sight' and ' short-sight' ? What is the cause of each, and how may each be remedied ? 14. Sometimes, as in cases of cataract, the crystalline lens has to be removed. What difference does its removal make in the power of seeing 15. Why is the eyeball black inside ? 16. Describe an experiment by which you would illustrate the formation of images in the eye. 17. What change takes place in the form of the crystalline lens when we direct the attention from a near to a distant object ? 18. Compare the eye with a photographer's camera. 19. Why does a rapidly revolving spark look like a circle of fire ? 20. What do you notice when you look at a sheet of white paper after gazing intently on a bright green object? Explain the cause. LESSON XXXVI. THE EAR. The ear consists of three parts :—the external ear, the middle ear or tympanuin, and the internal ear or labyrinth. The last of these divisions is the essential part of the organ of hearing, the other two being concerned merely in the collection and transmission of sound vibrations. The outer ear consists of the pimia (Lat. a wing), that part which projects from the side of the head, and the auditory ca7tal. The pinna, being concave, is especially adapted for the collection of sound waves which are reflected by it into the canal. It consists of a cartilaginous framework, surrounded by a certain amount of fatty tissue and a few small muscles, the whole being covered with integument. The pinna is thrown into several elevations and depressions, the names of which may be learnt from the accompanying illustration.