THE SKIN 165 the size of the blood-vessels. At the same time the ducts of the sweat glands are contracted, and consequently the secretion of the perspiration is slow. But when the body becomes overheated by exercise, or when the surface of the body is exposed to great heat, the muscles of the skin relax, the supply of blood mcreases, the gland ducts open wider, and the perspiration is given off freely. The evaporation of this moisture tends to reduce the temperature of the skin, and consequently that of the body. We now see how necessary it is that the skin should be cleansed from any matter which may tend to clog its pores, for if the perspiration cannot be freely discharged through the pores, it is reabsorbed into the blood, thus throwing extra work on the other excretory organs, ^specially the kidneys, which excrete water and urea. The lungs, skin, and kidneys are all similar in their action ; but the work of the skin is more closely allied to that of the kidneys than to that of the lungs. Hence, when the action of the skin is retarded by exposure to cold, the extra work thrdSvn on the kidneys frequently causes a disease in these organs, they being unable to perform their own function in addition to that of the skin. The analogy between the functions of the skin and the kidneys may also be noticed from the fact that in summer, when the skin is active, the excretion of the kidneys diminishes; a.ndvice versa. The sudoriparous glands are distributed all over the body, but not equally. In the lower limbs and back they are estimated at about 600 to every square inch of surface, while in the palms of the hands there areas many as 2,500 in the square inch'. Generally speaking, the fluid portion of the sweat evaporates as fast as it reaches the surface of the body, and consequently we have no visible evidence of the excretion unless we apply the skin to a very cold surface, when the vapour given off is condensed. Hence the term insensible perspiration. But in summer, especially during activity, the fluid collects in globules on the skin, and the perspiration becomes sensible. It may also become sensible under the influence of some kinds of mental emotion. Nails and hairs are out-growths of the epidermis or cuticle, and both agree with it in general structure. A nail is simply a thick layer composed of the thin horny scales of the outer portion of the cuticle. At the ' root' of the nail the skin is folded back on itself, so that two layers are facing each other. Thus the nail at this point grows by additions of epidermic cells above., below, and behind; the new growth above and below adding to the thickness of the nail, while additions received behind continually push it forward. The nail continues to receive additions in its thickness on the under surface as long as it remains attached to the skin below it.