WASTE AND REPAIR—FOODS 87 7. Give a list cf animal and vegetable food-substances, and classify them according to their chemical composition. 8. How would you obtain starch and gluten from wheat flour ? 9. Compare the chemical composition of starch and fat. 10. What are the chief mineral constituents of our foods? Describe the composition of each. 11. What would be the disadvantage of feeding on bread or meat alone ? 12. Explain clearly why it is better to make use of a mixed diet of bread and meat." 13. What is a model food ? Describe the composition of one such food. 14. Why are nitrogenous foods called i'ww-^rwerj, and non-nitrogenous foods heat-producers ? State any objections you may have to this method of classification. LESSON XVL THE TEETH AND MASTICATION. Each tooth has a crown, a neck, and a j-oot consisting of one or more fangs. The crown is the part which protrudes beyond the gum into the mouth. The neck is that slightly constricted portion which is embraced by the gum ; and the fang or fangs include all that part of the tooth which penetrates into the jaw-bone. If we examine our teeth we shall notice that they vary much in general form. Those in the front of each jaw are provided with sharp, chisel-like edges, and are consequently well adapted for biting or cutting : these are called the incisors (Lat. incido, I cut). Next to these, on each side, is a single tooth of about the same size, which has a somewhat pointed crown. This is called the canine or dog tooth (Lat. canis, a dog), because its position in the human skull corresponds with that of the long, conical, tearing tooth in the skull of the dog and other carnivorous (Lat. caro, flesh; and voro, I devour) or flesh-eating animals. The human canine tooth may also be said to slightly resemble that of a carnivorous animal in general form, inasmuch as its.summit is more or less conical. Beyond these canme teeth on either side is a pair of premolars or bicuspids (Lat. bis, twice ; and cuspis, a pointed extremity), so called because each has two cusps or ridges on the top of the crown, separated by a furrow. Beyond these again are larger teeth, each possessing two or more fangs, and having a very broad and irregular surface well adapted for the grinding of foods ; hence these teeth are called the molars (Lat. mola, a mill). A child of about six years possesses twenty teeth, called the temporary or milk teeth. These consist of four incisors in the front of each jaw, a single canifie tooth on each side of these in cisors, and a pair of molars on each side beyond the canines. At