99 THE CESOPHAGUS AND STOMACH oesophagus. The student should observe the motion of the larynx in swallowing by pressing the fingers lightly on the front of the throat during the act. As soon as the food enters the upper portion of the oesophagus, the circular muscles in the walls of that tube contract just above it, thus forcing it a little downward. This action is repeated by all the circular muscular fibres throughout the tube, each set con- tracting just above the food only till it passes into the stomach. It must not be understood, however, that the food is forced down the oesophagus by a series of distinct movements or jerks ; but that the successive muscular contractions produce a regular wave like motion throughout the tube. The longitudinal muscular fibres also contract at the sides, thus helping the oesophagus to grasp the food more effectually. It will have been observed that the act of swallowing is purely a muscular action—that the food does not fall into the stomach by its own weight, but is forced downward. This being the case, the act of swallowing may be performed with the body in any position. Thus jugglers sometimes eat, and even drink while standing on their heads, drink being conveyed into the stomach in exactly the same manner as solid food. After the food has passed to the back of the mouth, the remainder of the act of swallowing or deglutition {Lat. de, down \ and glutio, I swallow) is purely involuntary, and consequently we cannot then stop the bolus in its passage to the stomach. The mucus secreted by the internal mucous membrane of the oesophagus, acts as a lubrica7it, and thus facilitates the passage of the food. When the oesophagus is not engaged in swallowing, it is flat- tened, its front and back walls being in contact. In order that the act of deglutition may take place with regularity and ease, the bolus of food must be sufiiciently large to be within the grasp of the contracting muscles. It is on this account that some persons experience a considerable difficulty in swallowing a pill, especially if it be a small one, unless food or drink be taken at the same time. The general form, size, and position of the stomach have already been described in Lesson XIII. ; we have now to notice the structure of its walls, and its action on the food. The walls of the stomach consist of four distinct coats. The outer coat is a layer of the peritoneum which is reflected round most of the organs of the abdomen. It is a serous membrane, that is, one which secretes a watery fluid called serum. The use of the serum is to moisten or lubricate the surfaces of organs which glide more or less over each other. The other three coats of the stomach correspond exactly with H 2