ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY The auditory canal extends inward from the pinna to a distance of alxjut i.| inch. Its inner extremity is closed by a very thin nicmljrane called the drum of the ear (or the tympanic membrane), which is stretched across ii obliquely. The walls of the canal are formed jiarlly by cartilage and jiartly by bone, and are lined with a continuation of the skin. This skin, at the outer portion of the canal, is provided with small hairs, and also a number of glands, similar in structure lo the sweat glands, which secrete the cerumen or ear wax. Both the hairs, which are inclined outwards, and the wax, lend to an est dust particles, and to prevent the intrusion of insects. Fig. 207.—The Eight Bony Labyrinth. I, vestibule ; 2, fenestra ovalis; 3, 4, and 5, semicircular canals; 6, 7, and 8, the cochlea; 9, fenestra rotunda. The smaller figure below shows the natural size. Fig. 206.—The Left Tympanic Membrane and the Auditory Bones. 711, malleus ; z, incus ; st, stapes ; py, pyramid from which the tendon of the muscle of the stapes emerges ; it, tendon of a muscle cut short; la, anterior ligament of the malleus ; Is, superior ligament of the malleus ; ligament of the incus ; cli, branch of the facial nerve. The middle ear or tympanum (Lat. a drum) is a small irregular cavity in the temporal bone. It is separated from the auditory canal by the tympanic membrane, and contains a chain of small bones by means of which the vibrations received by the drum are transmitted across the cavity to the inner ear. These bones are three in number, and are called respectively the malleus or hammer, the incus or anvil, and the stapes or stirrup. The handle of the malleus is attached throughout its length to the drum of the ear, and_ con- sequently vibrates with it. The vibratory motion is then taken up by the incus and the stapes in turn. This last bone fits into an opening in the inner wall of the tympanum, thus transmitting the sound vibrations to the inner ear. The fuiddle ear contains air, and communicates with the pharynx (^^ee p. 6v) hy means of the Eustachian tube. By this arrangement the air