120 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY In the body the bright scarlet blood is usually found in the arteries (vessels which convey blood from the heart), while the Clark purple blood usually flows through the veins (vessels which convey blood to the heart). Hence the bright blood is often termed arterial, and the dark blood venous. _ When a drop of dark blood from a vein is left exposed to air, It absorbs oxygen from the air, and soon becomes bright. This change may also be illustrated as follows :— Half fill a test-tube with dark venous blood, and .shake it up with the air contained in the tube. It will speedily turn to a bright scarlet ; but, if set aside for some time, will gradually turn dark again. This experiment may be varied by causing air or oxygen to bubble through a vessel containing venous blood. The temperature of the blood is 98-4° F. in health, but is not exactly tlie same in all parts of the body at the same time. The high temperature is due to chemical action, chiefly the oxida- tion of carbon and hydrogen of the tissues. The blood is warmed as it passes through muscles, glands, and other active organs ; but is cooled slightly in the capillaries of the skin. The quantity of blood in the body also varies with certain conditions, but is usually estimated at about one-tenth the total weight of the body. The following table shows the composition of human blood as far as its proximate principles are concerned :— Water Red corpuscles (dry) Albumen (dissolved in the serum) Fibrin (elements of) Fatty matter Common salt . Other salts Colouring matter, waste, and accidental matters, &c. 785-0 130-0 70-0 2- 2 1-4 3- 6 1-8 6-0 looo-o When blood has been dried by the evaporation of all its water, its ultimate or elementary chemical composition is almost identical with that of dried flesh. Under these circumstances the composi- tion of blood is Carbon . . . . . . . . 5S-0 Oxygen ........ 19-0 Nitrogen 17-5 Hydrogen . . , . . . . .7-0 Ash (mineral matter) . . . . . .4-5 Some of the uses of the blood have already been pointed out in connection with certain organs, and others have yet to be mentioned. The chief uses, however, may be summarized as follows :— I. It serves as a storehouse for nutrient matter absorbed