ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 242 not fed with liis fingers, and another person who could feel hut could not move his arm, what parts would you suppose were injured or diseased in each 01 these persons ? ^j^j 12. If you take a sharp walk or a quick run you hreathe faster. What is the cause of your breathing faster, and of what- advantage to the body is the quicker breathing ? What other things besides rapid exercise make a person breathe very quickly, and how is it that they thus alTect the breathing? (10) 1894. 1. Where and how is the diaphragm placed in the body? What organs lie immediately above and what immediately below it ? What structures pass through it ? How does the diaphragm work in breathing, and what makes it work? (i^j 2. How would you place a heart in front of yourself so as to see the left auricle most easily ? What does the left auricle look like as seen from the outside, and what does its inside look like when laid open ? What blood vessels enter the left auricle, and how is it connected with the left ventricle ? (15) 3. What is the general shape and appearance of the stomach ? What is its general structure ? In what way does the internal lining of the stomach differ from that of the small intestine? What changes does proteid food undergo in the stomach ? (i^) 4. How can you tell the difference between a large artery and a vein of the same size as seett by dissection in a dead body ? What further differences are there between an artery and a vein besides those you can make out by mere dissection ? What are the special uses of these differences? (15) 5. What are lacteals, and where do they occur? What is in them when an animal is fasting, and what is in them alter a meal of mixed food ? How are their contents finally passed into the blood ? (10) 6. How can you show that there is a " blind spot" in each of your own eyes ? What does the blind spot teach us as to the nature of sight ? (10) 7. What movements can you make with your hand at the wrist joint ? How do the movements you can make with your foot at the ankle-joint differ from those you can make with your hand at the wrist ? What are the differ- ences in the joints which cause the difference in the movements? (10) 8. What do you understand by a " reflex action " ? What structures are essential for the occurrence of a reflex action ? Give two or three examples of reflex action as it may be observed in your own body. What is the use of reflex actions ? (10) 9. Of what two parts is the skin composed? What are the more obvious and important differences between these two parts ? What are the chief uses of the skin to the body ? (10) 10. What are the various causes or conditions which make a person breathe faster than usual ? What is the exact cause and what is the real use in each case of the faster breathing? (10) 11. What is the spinal bulb or medulla oblongata, and where is it placed in the body ? What is its form and general appearance ? What are its more important uses? (10) 12. What part of the nose is used for smelling ? W^hat nerve is used for smelling? With what part of the brain is this nerve connected, and how does it pass from the brain to the nose ? Why cannot you either smell or taste properly when you have a bad cold in your head? (10^