l64 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY dermis. These nerve-endings vary considerably in form, and possibly also in function, and will be described in a future lesson. The pores of the skin have already been mentioned as the openings of the ducts of the sweat g-lands. By making a section of the skin we are enabled to trace these ducts to the deeper portion of the dermis, where the glands are situated. As the ducts pass through the epidermis they are twisted like a corkscrew, but lower down they are straight or only slightly curved. On reaching the deeper layer of the dermis, or, sometimes, on entering the sub- cutaneous tissue, the ducts are coiled up into litde balls. These little bodies constitute the sudoriferous, sudoriparous (Lat. sudor, sweat) or sweat glands. Each gland is sur- rounded by a dense network of blood capil- laries, giving it the appearance of a reddish ball. As the blood circulates through these vessels, the fluid which we call the perspira- tion or sweat is separated from it, passing up the duct till it reaches the surface of the skin. The perspiration is a watery fluid, con- taining a small amount of dissolved common salt, together with smaller quantities of other salts (see page 8i). K XxXXXe carbonic acid gas , is also given off by the sweat glands, but this ''^l-iei^'ofTlwea? insignificant compared with that which gland, -with its escapes by the lungs. Duct. From what has been said it is clear that a, the gland surrounded wc must look upou the skin as an excretory S^nr"?^rough''Ihe orgau—that is, one by which waste materials dermis; c, its continua- g^j-g separated from the blood circulating in t"cosumr''and it. Like the luugs, it is a source of loss to through the upper epi- ^|^g blood ; but whilc the lungs give off a great amount of carbonic acid gas and water vapour, the skin excretes but litde carbonic acid gas. The excretion of the perspiration is contmuous but exceed- ingly variable, the average quantity discharged bemg probably about hvo pounds per day in the adult. , , , The chief use of the perspiration is undoubtedly the protec- tion of the body from too great heat, or, in other ^yords, the equalisation of the temperature of the system. When the surface of the body is cold, the supply of blood to the skin is decreased by the contraction of involuntary muscular fibres which reduce