146 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY up by the blood and transported by that fluid to those organs which are destined to remove them. Wlien the dark venous blood reaches the capillaries which surround the air-cells of the lungs, it is immediately changed in colour, becoming bright scarlet. Carbonic acid gas passes through the thin layer of membrane which separates the air from the blood, and oxygen gas passes from the air into the blood. \Vc see, then, that the lungs do not prepare carbonic acid gas, but simply serve as a means by which this ga-s, brought by the blood, is separated from the system. The readiness with which the diffusion of gases may take place through moist membranes may be illustrated as follows:—Fill a bladder with venous blood, and suspend it in ajar of oxygen. The oxygen will be absorbed, and the blood will soon acquire the properties of arterial blood. Again, suspend a bladder of arterial blood in a jar of carbonic acid gas, and the blood will soon become venous. The extent to which these changes take place in the body may be judged by comparing expired with inspired air. The latter contains about 79 per cent, of nitrogen, 21 per cent, of oxygen, with only about "04 per cent, of carbonic acid gas, and a variable proportion of water vapour; while the expired air contains about 5 per cent, more carbonic acid gas, 5 per cent, less oxygen, and an increased proportion of water vapour, the nitrogen remaining the same. It follows from this, that if a person were to shut himself up in a room without any means of ventilation whatever, the air he breathed would gradually lose its oxygen, and gain a correspond- ing proportion of carbonic acid gas. Wlien one or two per cent, of the oxygen had thus been removed, a feeling of general uneasi- ness would arise, accompanied by headache; and as the loss increased, there would not be sufificient oxygen in the inspired air to change the colour of the blood. This would certainly be the case when the loss of oxygen and the gain of carbonic acid gas rose to ten per cent. The blood would then be venous through- out the system. Carbonic acid gas, which is in itself slightly poisonous, would saturate the blood; and this, together with the oxygen starvation, would speedily cause death from asphyxia (Gr. a, without; and sphuzOy I throb—cessation of pulse, caused by suffocation). It is probable that in this case death would be caused by the deprivation of oxygen rather than by the poisonous effects of car- bonic acid gas, for it has been proved that air containing 10 or 15 per cent, of this gas produces no immediate effect on the animal system providing the supply of oxygen be proportionately increased.