THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXIV. 1. Describe the general form, size, position, and structure of the trachea. 2. IIow does the structure of the trachea differ from that of the oesophagus ? 3. Describe the general form and structure of the laiynx. 4. IIow do the smallest branches of the trachea terminate in the lungs ? 5. What provision is made for the discharge of any foreign matter that may find its way into the air-passages ? 6. Describe the general form and position of the lungs. How does the right lung differ from the left ? 7. Describe the manner in which the blood circulates in the lungs. Name the vessels concerned in this circulation ? 8. Where does arterial blood become ve?ious, and where does venous blood become arterial 1 9. How does the blood which leaves the lungs differ from that which enters them ? 10. How much air enters and leaves the lungs at each breath ? To what ex- tent may this quantity vaiy ? What is the greatest, and what is the least quantity of air which the lungs may contain during life ? LESSON XXV. WHY WE BREATHE—VENTILATION. In Lesson XV. we learnt that all living tissues were constantly wasting away, and that not only was it necessary that they should be repaired, but also that the waste substances should be removed from the system. Now, the lungs are included among those organs which remove waste matter, but we have to learn that they are at the same time sources of gain as well as of loss to the system, or at least to the blood. We have noticed that arterial blood becomes venous in the capillaries of the tissues of most parts. This is due to the fact that some of its oxygen has united with carbon and hydrogen of the waste matters, forming carbonic acid gas and water. The oxygen supply was obtained from the air-cells of the lungs, and was con- veyed to all parts by the blood stream. Life could not be maintained for even a short time without this chemical combination, for not only is it a great source of heat, by which the high temperature (99° F.) of the body is maintained,' but is also a means by which waste organic matter is converted into simpler compounds {carbonic acid gas, ivater, and urea) pre- vious to removal. Thus the lungs are a source of gain to the blood ; and the oxygen niiported by these organs is utilised in converting waste or dead animal matters into substances which can readily be taken L