172 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY part of tlie urine is separated in the capsules, while the solid portion is excreted chiefly from the capillaries surrounding the tubes. The ureters arc the two tubes which convey the fluid excreted by the kidneys into the bladder. They are about fifteen inches in length. The upper end of each, as we have seen, expands to form the pelvis of the kidney ; the lower extremity passes obliquely through the walls of the bladder at its base. The bladder is a very strong oval bag, about five inches long, situated in the cavity of the pelvis. Its walls contain abundant vivoluntary 77iuscidarfibres, and it is covered externally by a layer of the peritoneum. It has three openings, two of which—the openings of the ureters—have already been mentioned. The third communicates with a duct called the Urethra, by which the bladder is emptied of its contents. The neck of the bladder, that is, the narrower portion which gives rise to the urethra, is sur- rounded by a circular {sphincter) muscle which is generally in a state of contraction, and thus the passage of liquid from the bladder is prevented. But at intervals this muscle relaxes, while the walls of the bladder contract, and consequently its contents are discharged. The secretion of the urinary fluid by the kidneys is continuous, and it passes into the bladder, drop by drop, through the ureters. It will be seen, therefore, that the bladder simply serves to contain the urine so that it may be discharged at intervals from the body. No obstruction is offered to the fluid as it passes from the ureters into the bladder, but it cannot pass backward again into these vessels readily on account of their oblique openings ; and, further, because of small elevations of the mucous membrane at these openings which act as valves. The urine consists of urea and uric acid (both nitrogenous substances), other salts, and certain gaseous substances, dissolved in a large quantity of water. The quantity and composition of the urine vary considerably with circumstances, but it is estimated that the kidneys of a healthy man excrete about three pounds of water a day, in which is dissolved a little more than one ounce of urea, and about ten grains of uric acid. We must therefore look upon the kidneys as great sources of loss to the blood, and in this respect they are like the lungs and the skin. Of these three sources of loss the kidneys only excrete large quantities of nitrogenous matter. The following table will help us to compare the functions of these organs :— Sources of Loss to the Blood. m, , j Much water. 1. ine iungs. \^^^^ carbonic acid gas.