128 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY notice the thinness and irregularity of its walls. We are now enal)lcd to look down into ihe cavity of the left ventricle, which resemliles the right in that a membranous valve lies between it and the auricle. This valve is called the mitral valve from its supposed resemblance to a bishop's mitre : it is also called the bicuspid valve, being composed of two cusps or flaps. As the left ventricle is as yet uncut, we may easily study the action of the valve as follows :—Pour a little water into the ventricle, close the aorta which leads from it, and then squeeze the ventricle between the fingers and the thumb. Each time we do so, we notice that the cusps of the valve float up on the surface of the water, till they partially or entirely close the ventricle. If we remove the right auricle with its vessels (the venee cavse), we shall find that its structure is much like that of the left auricle. Again, by cutting through the walls of the left ventricle, we notice that this cavity closely Fig. 120.—The Base of the Heart. The auricles have been cut away, and the valves are closed. The pericardium has also been removed to expose the muscular fibres. ,, , , , . , I and I , right ventricle; 2, left ventricle; 3, wall of right auricle ; 4, w.all ofleft auricle; 5, 5', and 5", the tricuspid valve ; 6 and 6', the mitral valve ; 7, pulmonarj' arter>'. 8, aorta , 9 and 9', coronary arteries. resembles the ventricle already dissected, but that its walls are very much ^^''^Lastly, lay open the aorta as we did the Pulmonary ^^-^^^f^'^"^ j^f,'^'^; the origin of this great artery, we shall notice another set of semilunar valves, which are also arranged so as to prevent the blood from flowing back ^o the heart. If instead of laying open the aorta, we cut U shorUmmedrat^ above the semilunars, we may fill the three little pouches with water thus illustrating their action, i.e. their tendency to close the passage fiom he aorta into the ventricle when acted on by a pressure from above. Just outside the semilunars of the aorta may be seen two small openmgs The e are^he origins of the coronary arteries, by which the heart itself is supP^ed xN^th blood for its nourishment. This blood is afterwards collected up by the coronary veins; and branches of both the coronary arteries and the coronary