ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY LESSON XXXII. THE SPINAL CORD. The spinal cord is a long cylinder of nerve matter which is con- tained in the spinal cavity formed by the vertebral column. It extends from the medulla oblongata to the first lumbar vertebra, and measures about eighteen inches in length. It is nearly as thick as the little finger. , , , Like the brain, the spinal cord is closely mvested by the pia mater from which it receives its blood supply. Over this lies the slrous arachnoid membrane, and exterior to the arachnoid is a continuation of the diira mater of the brain. The araclinoid memb^aie of the cord, unlike that of the brain, is not in contact with the pia mater, but forms a loose bag around it. The dura mater, also, does not lie close against the vertebrae as it does against the cranium, but is separated from them by a layer of fatty tissue which forms a soft pro- tecting covering, enabling the back to bend without injury to the cord The studenf may often procure an uninjured piece of the cord from the < loin ' of mutton, the ' sirloin' or the ' rib' of beef._ After noticing its general character while fresh, he should soak it in spirit till sufficiently hard for cutting sections. On making a transverse section of the spinal cord we notice that the grey nerve-substance is in the interior and is surrounded bv white matter. The cord is divided into right and jeft parts by two deep depressions or fissures. The front or anterior fissure is wTder than the other, but not so deep. The posterior fissure is not a true fissure, but simply a layer of thin connective tissue penetrating almosi to the centre. In the centre of the cord is a veJy small canal-the central canal-which can be seen only with "^^^^^^ off from the spinal cord, right and left, throuZuUts w^^ length. These are termed the spinal nerves. In ?h? cervical and dorLl regions they emerge m pairs, passing out on each side through openings between the vertebr^. There are thirty-one pairs of these nerves. At the lower end of the cord the spinal neries come off crowded together in the form of a paraUel bundle which is called the cauda equina (Lat. horse tail), from its fancied resemblance to the tail of a horse. The ffrey matter of the spinal cord projects backward and