15 THE SKELETON for the muscles by which we are enabled to bend the back and to move those bones that articulate with the vertebral column. Between the bodies of the vertebrae are pads of elastic cartilage or gristle called intervertebral cartilages. These unite the vertebrae, and form with them a flexible column. In old age the cartilages of the backbone become hard and less flexible, so that the back can no longer be bent, except to a very slight extent. The points in which these vertebrae differ from each other may receive a passing notice. The bodies of the vertebrse increase in size from the first cervical to the lowest lumbar, so as to be able to support the greater weight they have to bear. The bodies of the cei-vical vertebra being small, we have seven joints in a short column of bones. This gives great freedom of motion to the head and neck. The first two cervical vertebrae will be specially described in our next lesson. The long spinous pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebra;, which show so plainly in the backs of thin persons, and the large spinous and lateral processes of the lumbar vertebree, serve for the attach- ment of the powerful muscles by which we are enabled to bend the body. The dorsal vertebra are also provided each with two facets, sometimes called the articular pro- cesses, with which the heads of the ribs form movable joints. Fig. 14.—First Dorsal Vertebra, with the first pair of Ribs, and a portion of the Sternum. I, body of the vertebra; 2, spinal cavity ; 3, spinous process : 4, lateral processes ; 5, articular facet of lateral process ; 6, articular facet for the head of the rib. (These two facets form, with the rib, movable joints.) 7, ribs ; 8, cartilage or gristle connecting the ribs with the sternum ; 9, sternum, or breast-bone. It will now be seen that a number of these vertebras, arranged in a column, will not only form a powerful and flexible .support, but that the vertebral arches will form a long bony tube. This tube is called the spinal canal, and contains the great nerve known as the spinal cord, to which the bones of the vertebral column serve as a strong protection. The ribs or costae, twenty-four in number, are curved bones connected in pairs with the dorsal vertebrae behind, and, except the last two_ pairs, with the sternum (Gr. stemon, the breast) or breast-bone in front. Each pair of ribs thus forms a circular arch called a costal arch (fig. 14). That portion of the rib which forms a movable joint with the articular process of the dorsal vertebrae IS termed its head. The other end is in most cases attached by