142 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY the rings of cartilage are incomplete, and become more and more so as thet ubes subdivide into smaller branches, till in the smallest divisions they disappear altogether. 'I'hc trachea and its branches are all lined internally by a delicate mucous membrane, the inner surface of which is formed of a layer of ciliated cells. These are cells, the free surfaces of vi^hich are covered with minute hair-liJce projections called cilia (Lat. ciliuvi, an eyelash). 'J'he cilia, by their continuous vibratile motion, tend to move any foreign matter, which may come in contact with the inner surface of the air passages, towards the mouth. In this way the lungs are kept comparatively free from particles of dust, &c., derived from / the air we breathe ; and great vessels, and the oesophagus (see Lesson XII.), conse- quently their general form coincides with that of'this cavity. Both right and left lungs are divided by d^ep depress ons into lobes—the right into three, and the left into two. The lobes are again divided by lesser depressions into lobules (see fig. 7). Each lobule is a miniature representation of the whole lung, being supplied with its own systems of air-tubes and blood-vessels. The lungs are supplied with dark ve7ious blood by means of the pulmonary arteries which proceed from the right ventricle. These arteries divide and subdivide into smaller and smaller branches, penetrating every portion of the organs, till at last they during inflammation the phlegm discharged from the mucous membrane is always urged towards the larynx, from which it is discharged by coughing. Were it not for this pro- vision, it is clear that we should constantly be in danger of suffocation, con- sequent on the accumula- tion of matter in the air passages. The lungs are spongy and elastic bags, consist- ing of air-tubes and cells, blood-vessels and elastic tissue. They fill the cavity of the thorax, with the exception of the space occupied.by the heart, the Fig. 132.—Groups of Air-cells at tlie termi- nation of a small Bronchial Tube.