THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 47 As an illustration of this, lay the left forearm on a table before you, and crasp the mass of flesh which forms the front of the upper arm with the right hand Now gradually raise the left forearm, still keeping the elbow on the table' and notice how the muscle thickens as the hand rises. The chief muscle engaged in this motion is one called the biceps muscle (Lat. bi, two; and caput, a head), because at its upper extremity it has two heads with separate tendons. These tendons are united to the scapula at the shoulder- joint, while the lower tendon is fastened to the radius, very near the elbow- joint.' The points of union with the fixed bone (the scapula) are called the points of origin of the mus- cle ; the point at which the muscle is attached to the bone to be moved (the radius) is called its point of insertion ; and the thick, fleshy, middle part of the muscle is known as its body. Some few of the muscles have no tendons, the muscular fibres being connected directly with the bone ; while others, instead of being of the form just described, are broad and flat muscular sheets. Some muscles are not connected in any way with bones. These often enclose cavi- ties, in which case they are called hollow muscles, and are generally of the involuntary kind. Exam- ples are to be seen in the heart and stomach. After a bone has been moved by a mus- cle, it is brought back to its former position by the contraction of a second muscle on its opposite side. Hence we find that muscles are generally arranged in pairs, ea^h muscle of a pair being antagonistic in its action to the other. Those muscles which are used to bend the limbs are called flexors; while those which straighten the limbs are called tensors. so.—Side View of the Muscles of tlie Face and Neck. ex- _ Muscles may be made to contract by the application of some kind of stimulus or irritant. The stimulus is generally conveyed to the muscular fibres by means of the nerve which distributes its branches among them. But muscular contraction may also be produced by mechanical irritation, such as