28 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY humerus, forming the olecranon process ((ir. oktie^ihe. elbow; and kranion, the top) or prominence of tlic elbow, which gives attach- ment to certain muscles, and prevents the forearm from moving too for back. The radius is slender at the toj), where its shallow cup-like end articulates with a convex surface furnished by the humerus. Its lower extremity is enlarged, and gives attachment to the bones of the wrist. If we rest the forearm flat on a table, with the palm of the hand uppermost (an attitude which is called supination), the ulna and the radius are parallel with each other. If we now turn the hand round till its back is uppermost {pronation) the ulna does not change its position; but the lower end of the radius turns round this bone, crossing it, and carrying the hand with it. Thus the upper slender end of the radius rotates on a pivot formed by a rounded portion of the lower head of the humerus, and is held in its position by a circular ligament, while its lower extremity revolves round the ulna. The wrist is composed of eight small bones, called carpal bones (Gr. karpos, the wrist), arranged in two rows of four. These bones are united with one another and with the neighbouring bones by means of ligaments, in such a manner that each one is capable of a slight ghding motion. The wrist is thus rendered flexible ; and this flexi- bility, combitied with the rotatory motion of the radius, gives great freedom of movement to the hand. Five long bones, called metacarpal bones (Gr. uieta, beyond ; and karpos, the wrist), form the palm of the hand. One of these passes from the wrist to the thumb, and the other four from the wrist to the fingers. These bones may be easily felt oy pressmg the fin'-ers of one hand over the back of the other. It will, o course, be observed that the metacarpal bone which is connected with the thumb is capable of motion to a for greater degree than the others. It is on this that the utility of the thumb depends, for we are enabled to move the thumb round till it is m opposition to the fingers, and thus to firmly grasp large objects and to pick up small ones. Fig. 31 The Right Hand from before. carpal bones ; m, metacarpal bones ; I, 2, and 3, phalanges.