6l THE CHEST AND ABDOMEN it is completely separated from the lower portion by a partition which is partly fleshy or muscular, and partly tendinous. In a small rabbit, for instance, the central portion is tendinous, and so thin that it is transparent; while round its edges it is muscular. Thus we see tliat the great body cavity is divided into two distinct parts by a muscular and tendinous partition. The upper part of this cavity is called the thorax or chest; the lower portion is called the abdomen or belly ; and the arched partition which separates these is called the diaphragm (Gr. dia, across ; and phragma, a fence), also known as the midriff. The thick and fleshy portion of the diaphragm or midriff of the ox is sold by the butcher under the name of skirt steak, or beef skirt. The abdomen (Lat. abdo, I hide) or lower portion of the great cavity may now be opened in a similar manner to that described above, without injuring the diaphragin. It will be noticed that certain vessels pass through this partition, and these are attached so firmly to it that the organs with which they are connected can- not be removed without injury to it unless the vessels are cut above and below. After removing the organs of the abdomen we notice that its walls have no bony support excepting at the back, as they consist of the abdominal muscles and fibrous tissue only. The arrange- ment of these muscles is illustrated in fig. 49. We leave the study of the organs of the great cavity for future lessons. SUMMARY. / Thorax or Chest THE GEEAT , CAVITY . \ Diaphragm Abdomen Shape Walls Sides— Front- j Conical, with the diaphragm t as its base. j Back—Vertebral column, f Ribs. 1 Intercostal muscles. (Sternum. 1 Costal cartilages. Floor—Diaphragm. ( A muscular partition, dividing the thorax ' from the abdomen. Convex above and ( concave below. (Roof—Diaphragm J Back—Vertebral column. I Sides and Front — Abdo- V minal muscles. Walls QUESTIONS ON LESSON X. 1. Describe the general stmcture of the body of a vertebrate animal. 2. Where is the thorax ? What are the structures which surround it ? 3. How would you proceed in order to examine the diaphragm of a small animal ?