171 THE KIDNEYS process of excretion goes on, and that the watery fluid (the tirine) there separated passes through the minute tubes of the pyramids into the pelvis, whence it is conveyed to the bladder by the ureter. This is actually the case ; but in order to understand how this is brought about it will be necessary to give a more detailed exami- nation, aided by the microscope. If we examine a thin prepared section of the kidney under a powerful microscope, we notice that the straight tubes of the pyramids (the uriniferous Pig. 158.—Longitudinal Section of the Human Kidney. One-half the natural size. a, cortical substance ; b, pyramids—broad portions ; c, calyces of the pelvis laid open ; c', calyx, unopened ; d, summits of the pyramids projecting intocalices ; e, narrow parts of pyramids ; pelvis ; n, ureter ; h, hilus ; s, extension of the hilus. Fig. 159.—Diagram show- ing the relation between the Uriniferous Tubes and the Blood-vessels. a, small branch of the renal artery; a', smaller branch passing into a capsule ; c, a Malpighian cap- sule ; t, convoluted uriniferous tube; ff', small blood-vessels from the capsule, which sub- divide into capillaries f>, sur- rounding the tube, and finally terminating in e, a small branch of the r&tjal vein. tubes) radiate towards the cortical portion, branching as they go. On reach- ing the cortical layer they are distributed irregularly, interlacing each other, and finally terminate in little expansions called the Malpighian capsules. Into each capsule a small branch of the renal artery enters, and immediately breaks up into looped capillaries which nearly fill the cavity of the capsule. The blood is then collected up by a small vein, which again breaks up into a capillary network around the walls of the uriniferous tube, and is finally con- veyed away through the medullary portion to the renal vein. Thus we have another example (see page 155) of blood passing through two distinct capillary systems before entering the great vein which takes it to the heart. The excretion of the kidney is filtered from the blood both through the thin walls of the capsules and also through the walls of the tubules which are surrounded by the second capillary network. It is probable that the watery