THE BLOOD 119 If fresh blood be stirred briskly with a bunch of twigs, the fibrin is formed very rapidly, and collects on the twigs, leaving behind a red fluid called defibrinated blood (blood deprived of its fibrin) which will not coagulate. Thus :— [Elements of fibrin . . Fibrin. . . Albumen \ Liquor sanguinis. ^ g^j^^ Serum ^ Blood. .] i Water > I Defibrinated Wood, [corpuscles ' The coagulation of blood may be retarded, and even prevented, by keep- in"- it at a temperature below 40° F., or at a higher temperature than 120° F. The addition of common salt, or contact with living tissues, will also prevent this change. On the other hand, coagulation may be hastened by free access to the au\as by exposure in a shallow vessel), by allowing the blood to remain at perfect rest, or by bringing it in contact with foreign (non-living) matter. In the last case, the coagulation is rapid in propor- tion to the surface which is in contact with the blood ; hence the reason for whipping with a bunch of twigs. Under ordinary circumstances the coagulation sets in before the corpuscles have time to subside or settle to the bottom of the vessel ; but the red corpuscles have a tendency to adhere to each other when the blood is at rest, forming rolls or columns resembling piles of coins, the piles being connected with each other at their ends so as to form a kind of network which sinks more quickly than would jrig. 112.—Red Corpuscles single corpuscles. When this change takes place arranged in Rouleaux, rapidly, the red corpuscles subside before the fibrin is formed. In this case a red clot is formed by fibrin and red corpuscles at the bottom of the vessel, over which is a yellowish clot produced by fibrin and colourless corpuscles, together with a few of the red variety, sufficient to impart a buff-yellow tint. This upper layer is commonly known as the buffy coat, and is often cup-shaped in form, ov/ing to the great shrinking of the fibrin on account of the absence of the network of red corpuscles. The colour of the blood is due to the presence of a nitrogenous sub- stance, called hsemoglobin, in the red corpuscles. This substance contains a considerable proportion of iron oxide, and has the power of combining with oxygen gas. As the blood flows through the capillaries surrounding the air-cells of the lungs, the hcemoglobin combines with oxygen from the air, becoming of a bright scarlet colour. The blood thus changed in colour returns to the heart, by which it is forced throughout the body. Then, on passing through the tissues of various organs, and especially the muscles, the hfemoglobin gives up some of its oxygen, which seems to be held by only a feeble chemical affinity, to the carbon and hydrogen of these tissues, forming respectively carbonic acid gas and water. The hsemoglobin then changes to a dark purple or purple-black colour, and the blood again returns to the lungs with the carbonic acid gas in solution. In the lungs this gas is given off into the air and expired, while the haemoglobin receives a fresh supply of oxygen from the inspired air. From the above description it will be readily understood why the haemoglobin has been termed the oxfg^n carrier of the blood. f