62 ELEMENTARY rHYSIOLOGY 4. \yhat is llic abdomen ? J)c.sciibc ihc nature of its walls 5. C.ive a short description of the diaphragm. ''"Sld'S^r' "^'^'^ 'ollowing:-..^.^.,.,.,.,,^, LESSON XI. THE ANATOMY OF THE FACE AND NECK. It will be advisable to study the anatomy of the face and neck before learning the nature of the organs contained in the thorax and abdomen, as by adopting this plan we shall be able to under- stand better the connection between the organs of the face and those of the two divisions of the great body cavity. The accompanying diagram exhibits a medial section of the face and neck, that is, a section carried from the tip of the nose backward, thus cutting through the middle of the cervical portion of the vertebral column. We first proceed to note the positions of the chief bones of tlie face, &c., as exposed in this section; and we again remind the student of the advantage to be gained by comparing the structure of the human face and neck with that exhibited in a'similar section of the head of some small animal. The sphenoid bone separates the upper and back portion of the cavity of the nose from the cavity of the skull. The ethmoid bone separates the same two cavities more to- ward the front. The nasal bones form the upper and hard portion of the ridge of the nose, the lower portion of which is constructed of cartilage, and is therefore flexible. The cavity of the nose is limited below by the superior maxil- lary bones, and the palatal bones behind them; these forming together the hard palate. It will thus be seen that the nasal cavity occupies a very large proportion of the face. It is divided centrally from front to back by the thin bony plate called the vomer, and its outer or right and left walls are formed by the superior, middle, and inferior turbinated or scroll-like bones, the upper two of which form part of the ethmoid bone, while the lower or inferior are distinct bones. Below the nasal cavities, and separated from them by the hard palate, is the cavity of the mouth. The roof of the mouth is con- tinued backward from the hard palate by the soft palate, which is composed of fleshy substance, without any kind of hard support; and behind this the cavities of the mouth and nose both lead into a cavity called the pharynx.