io6 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY QUESTIONS ON LESSON XVIII. 1. Describe the form, size, position, and structure of the cesophai^tis. 2. DescrilDC the action of the parts concerned in the act of swallowing. To what extent is this a vokinlary action ? 3. Describe carefully the action of the muscular fibres of the oesophagi^? during deglutition. 4. What is the cause of the difficulty sometimes experienced in swallowing a pill? 5. Describe the structure of the walls of the stomach. 6. By what means is the food kept in motion during gastric digestion';; Describe this motion. What purpose is served by this motion ? 7. Describe the general appearance of the mucous membrane ol the stomach (i) When the organ is empty, and (2) When food is introduced. 8. Describe the general characters and composition of the gastric Jluiii. 9. What is the action of the gastric fluid on (l) starchy fluids, (2) nitrogenous foods, and (3) fats ? 10. What is pepsin ? What is its use ? How may it be obtained ? 11. What is chyme? Of what does it consist ? 12. Describe fully the various changes which take place in the food while in the stomach. 13. Explain the term diymificaiion. 14. What are peptones ? Where and how are they formed ? How do they differ from the materials from which they are produced ? LESSON XIX. THE INTESTINES AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION. The general form and arrangement of the mtestines have been described in Lesson XIII. . Both large and small intestines, hke the stomach, consist ot four coats. These coats also correspond with those of the stomach, being arranged as follows ;— 1. Outer serous coat, formed by the peritoneum, 2. Muscular coat, composed of (a) External longitudinal fibres and ib) Literrial circular fibres. 3. Areolar layer. 4 Mucous membrane, forming the mterior surface. The mucous membrane of the small intestine is m part drawn up into folds, like that of the stomach, but to such .-n extent that thev do not disappear when the tube is distenaed. These lolds are called the valvulse conniventes. They serve to increase the area of the secreting surface, to prevent the food from passing too rapidly through the intestine, and to assist the mmng of the food with the digestive fluids which are poured into the mtestines.