191 THE SPINAL CORD It appears that consciousness tends to prevent or reduce the numbe of reflex movements. Thus, the tickUng of the feet during sleep will_ cause m scula contraction more readily than when we are awake. And again the unexpected motion of an object near the eyes causes the eyehds to close instantly; whereas, had we been prepared for it, we should probably have been able to keep the eyes open. . It has been ascertained that the majority of the motor fibres, which originate in the brain, pass down to the front of the medulla, and then cross over, and descend in the cord on the opposite side, while the remaining fibres descend the cord on the same side. Hence, if one lateral half of the cord is injured, the power of voluntary movement will be almost entirely lost on the same side of the body, below the seat of the injury, but will be practically unimpaired on the opposite side. The sensory fibres, on entering die cord, pass chiefly up the same side to the medulla, and then cross oyer o the other side of the brain, while some cross to the opposite side immediately on entering the cord. This being the case, injury to one lateral half of the cord will cause impaired sensation chiefly on the same side ot the body. THE SPINAL COED Position . Length Thickness Coats . . Structure Nerves Functions SUMMARY. J In the spinal canal formed by the vertebral 1 column. About eighteen inches. Extends from the medulla oblongata to the first lumbar vertebra. About one-third of an inch. Pia mater—delicate, vascular. Arachnoid'—^exows, forming a loose bag. Dura mater—tough, fibrous. (A layer of fatty tissue lies between the dura mater and the bony canal.) Grey matter internal. White matter external. A nierior fissure. Posterior fissure—deeper and narrower. Central canal—microscopic. Thirty-one pairs—between the vertebrae. Crowded at the lower extremity of the cord—Cauda equina. Each trunk formed by the union of two roots. p f Anterior—motor. ^ 1 Posterior—sensoiy. Conduction of impressions. A centre for reflex action (grey matter). Sensory fibres—cross as they enter the cord. Motor fibres—cxo?,s in the medulla ob- longata. Beflex action A disturbed condition of sensory fibres— Conducted to a nerve centre— Reflected by the nerve centre along motor fibres to their terminations in muscles— Muscular contraction.