ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY rabbit, the, cerebrum is small in proportion to the brain as a whole, and Us surface is smooth. In the ape, the cerebral hemispheres are proportionately larger, and their surfaces are drawn up into a number of convolutions; while in man they are large and still more convoluted. We derive our knowledge of the functions of the cere- brum'partly from cases of injury and disease of that organ, and l^artly froni observations on the lower animals. When the cer.- l)rum is diseased or injured, the power of manifesting mental faculty is more or less lost; when the cerebrum of an animal is injured, the animal is deprived of all power of voluntary move- ment, and remains in a state of stupor; it retains, however, the power of performing comphcated actions involuntarily. The cerebellum or lesser brain also consists of two hemispheres, each composed of an external layer of grey matter surrounding white fibrous substance. The grey matter is also convoluted, but in a different manner, and the pia mater dips into the fissures in its surface. The chief function of the cerebellum appears to be the regulation or co-ordination of all muscular movement. It is the organ by which the mind gains a knowledge of the conditions and positions of the muscles, which know- ledge is essential to their har- monious action, especially in such complicated movements as walking and running. When the cerebellum of an animal is injured, it can move any voluntary muscle at will, but it cannot walk or fly, nor can it balance its own body, since the muscles do not act with any regularity. Thus, voluntary movements do not orighiate in the cerebellum, but only the power of co-ordinating these movements. An animal retains sen- sation when its cerebellum is injured, and injury to this portion of the brain causes no pain. The medulla oblongata is a mass of white and grey matter which connects the brain with the spinal cord. It is about an inch in length, and is broader above where it is continuous with —Section through the Cerebellum. Showing the peculiar arrangement of the white and grey matter, forming what is known as the arbor vita (tree oi life).