EXAMINATION TAPERS 2. How is the small intestine placed in the body? What are the chief 1895. I What structures form the walls of the thorax or chest? What organs lie inside the thorax ? What movements do the walls make during inspiration, and what movements do they make during expiration? How are these move- "'^2' Whlrdffferences of structure are there bet\yeen the right and left ventricle of a heart? To what differences in action do these differences correspond? What is the form and structure of the valve between the left auricle and left ventricle, and how does this valve Work so as to carry on the circulation of the blood ? , . , , , tt a ■2 Where and how is the spinal cord placed in the body? How does it end above and how does it end below? What structures are given off at repeated intervals from the spinal cord, and what are the uses of these structures '* \ o' 4 What are the essential differences between fats and carbohydrates? Where and how are fats digested, where and how are carbohydrates digested in the body? ^ , ,. ^ . ^^5) 5 Describe the position and general structure of the liver. What is there peculiar about the blood-supply to the liver ? What is the most obvious use of the liver, and wlmt are the arrangements by which that use is carried out ? (10) 6. What changes can be seen to take place in blood after it is drawn off from the body and kept for some time ? What has taken place z'n the blood to cause these changes which you can see? (10) 7. Describe how the skull is attached to the spinal column or backbone, and explain how this attachment enables you to (i) nod your head up and down ; (ii) turn your head from side to side. (lo) 8. What is the structure of a muscle and its tendon so far as these can be made out by careful dissection, without having recourse to a microscope? How are the muscles usually placed and attached to the bones so as to lead to the movements of the body? (10) 9. Of what substances is sweat chiefly composed ? By what organs other than the skin are some of the constituents of sweat also got rid of from the body? How does it come about that perspiration is usually "insensible," and what has happened when it becomes " sensible " ? (10) 10. If you cut through a large clot of blood or piece of lean meat, the inside is of a much darker colour than the outside. Explain why there is this difference of colour. What important facts do you learn from the above observation? (10) 11. What is the pupil of the eye? When and by what means does it become smaller, and when does it become larger ? What are the uses of the pupil becoming smaller and larger? (10) 12. If you keep your leg or arm too long in a bent position it often " goes to sleep." What has happened in your leg or arm when it has thus "gone to sleep," and why is it nearly useless to you while in this condition? (10) 1896. 1. What is the general structure of a lung? How and why does the condition of a lung when taken out cf the thorax differ from its condition before it was taken out ? How does the latter condition account for the expanding of the lung when the thorax becomes larger ? (15)