84 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY (2) Sugar. There are several varieties of sugar derived from l)oth plants and animals. Cane sugar, beet sugar, grape sugar, and 7/iilk sugar are the chief. The solid part oi honey also consists largely of grape sugar. These varieties of sugar are all more or less soluble in water. (3) Gums. These are also vegetable products, obtained from various parts of plants. (4) Fats and Oils. These are obtained from both animal and vegetable sources. Fats are solid, derived chiefly from animals; oils are liquid, and are obtained chiefly from fruits. They re- semble each other in chemical composition, and are insoluble in water. The inorganic or mineral foods consist chiefly of water. common salt, calcium carbonate, and the phosphates of calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium ; also certain salts of iron, &c. These foods are not, with the exception of water and common salt, generally taken separately ; but they all exist in the animal and vegetable substances we eat. Life cannot be sustained on mineral foods alone, although these may contain all the elements required to make good the waste. Neither can life be permanently sustained by any one class alone of the organic foods. Hence it follows that our food must consist of mixtures of these. But the various food-substances we employ do generally consist of such mixtures ; for instance, wheat flour contains the nitrogenous substance gluten, the non- nitrogenous substance starch, and also various mineral salts de- rived by the wheat plant from the soil in which it grew. Again, butcher's meat contains the nitrogenous myosin, the non-nitro- genous fat, together with mineral salts obtained indirectly from the soil. We may now study the manner in which life may be best sus- tained by ordinary food-substances with the greatest economy as regards the work thrown on the various organs concerned. We have seen that the daily waste of carbon and nitrogen from the system amounts to Carbon ..... 4,500 grs.—about 10 ozs. Nitrogen. .... 300 grs.—about f oz. Now let us suppose a person to feed on bread only. In order to obtain the necessary quantity of nitrogen to repair this waste, he would have to eat nearly 4^^ lbs. daily. This weight of bread contains Carbon 9,000 grs. Nitrogen , . . . 3°° gi^s. Hence he would be compelled to take about double the quantity of carbon required in order to obtain the necessary weight of