HOW WE BREATHE '49 again. This is the act of respiration (Lat. re, again ; and spiro, I breathe). Fit up an apparatus as represented In fig. 135, in which A is a stout glass tube, provided with a sound cork, B, and also an airtight piston, C, resembling that of an ordinary syringe. A short tube, D, passing through the cork, has a small india-rubber bag tied to it. Fit the cork in the tube while the piston is near the top. Now, by lowering the piston we increase the capacity of the cavity containing the bag. The pres- sure outside the bag is thus lowered, and air rushes into it through the tube D till a balance is restored. The bag is thus stretched. As soon as we let go the piston, the elas- ticity of the bag, being free to act, drives out the air just taken in, and the piston returns to its former place. It will be noticed that in this experiment the elastic bag and its tube represent the lungs and trachea ; and the vessel enclosing it, the thorax. If while the bag is inflated a hole be made through the cork into^ the tube, air rushes in, and the bag collapses, thus illustrating the effect of piercing a hole in the walls of the chest. We have now to study the mechanism by which the chest is made to contract and expand. Inspiration is a muscular act by which the cavity of the chest is zvidened and deepened. The latter result is brought about by the contraction of the diaphragm, which causes it to become less arched. This contraction would also make the chest narrower by exerting a pulling force on its side walls to which the diaphragm is attached, but this is prevented by the action of the intercostal muscles. The intercostal muscles connect the adjacent ribs throughout their length. They consist of two thin layers of oblique muscular fibres which occupy the spaces between the ribs. These layers are termed respectively the internal and extet'nal. The internal intercostal muscles pass obliquely doivnwards and backwards from the lower margin of one rib to the upper margin of the next. The external intercostal muscles incline downwards and for- wards, and are much stronger than the internal. The ribs also are inclined considerably downwards and forwards ; and as the intercostal fibres are placed obliquely with regard to the ribs, when they contract they tend to arrange themselves at right angles with these bones, and in doing so the ribs are either raised or de- pressed. The external intercostal muscles raise the ribs, widening the cavity of the chest, and thus assisting inspiration. Fig- 135-—Appa- ratus for il- lustrating the Movements of Bespiratioa.