190 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY he a n Z .1/ V'V" "'^ '•^""g'^ commurncation witt ! mnlv IS V ^ """^ sensory nerves, and the l.rain simply refers the sensation to the extremities of the irritated nerve. We may now study the functions of the spinal cord When the spinal cord is cut through or injured at any point, all power of voluntary movement and all sensation is lost to every part of the body supplied with fibres from nerves which originate below that pomt. Therefore the cord is a medium by which motor and sensory impressions are conducted to and from the brain. If we now pinch or otherwise irritate the limbs which are thus cut oft from the brain, they are suddenly drawn up by the contraction of their muscles, and this entirely without any exercise of the will. Such an action is termed a reflex action. It consists of a disturb- ance of sensory fibres which is conducted by a sensory nerve to a nerve centre, and a reflection of this disturbance from the nerve centre through one or more motor nerves, causing a contraction of the muscles in which the motor fibres terminate. It will thus be seen that the spinal cord is not merely a conductor of impres- sions, but that it is a centre for reflex actions. This power is possessed by the grey matter of the cord only, the white substance being simply a conductor of impulses. Hundreds of reflex actions are going on continually in our bodies without our knowledge, and among them we include the so-called vital fimctions of the important organs, the cessation of which would cause instant death. Thus, the action of the res- piratory muscles is the ultimate result of a reflex action. In this case the irritation of the sensory nerves concerned is due to the imperfectly aerated condition of the blood. The impression thus made is conveyed to the medulla oblongata, and is thence reflected through motor nerves which govern the intercostal muscles, the diaphragm, &c. Even walking, reading, and other familiar actions of voluntary muscles may be reflex movements. Of course such movements are sometimes purely voluntary, especially in child- hood, but in time the muscles become so used to certain succes- sions of movements, that they act in their accustomed manner without the control of the will. We may walk without knowing that we are walking; and, in reading, we often unconsciously utter certain sounds on seeing the signs which have so frequently caused us to produce these sounds voluntarily.