THE HEART AND ITS DISSECTION 125 on your right, and vice versd. From this stage it will be assumed that the student is able to distinguish between the four cavities of the heart, viz.— the right and left au?-icles, and the right and left vejitricks. By means of the wood skewers we may now learn the manner in which the various vessels communicate with these four cavities. The arteries will thus be seen to lead direct from one or other of the ventricles, while the veins communicate directly with the auricles, and indirectly through these with the ventricles. Care must be taken to avoid tearing or breaking any of the interior structures while applying these tests. • The great blood-vessels may now be named as follows :— 1. Largest artery, leading direct from the left ventricle, called the Aorta. 2. Two other arteries, leading direct from the right veiitricle^ called the Eiglit and Left Pulmonary Arteries. . 3. Two large veifis, commu- nicating with the right auricle, called the Inferior and the Supe- rior Venae Cavse. 4. Two veifis, communicating with the left auricle, called the Pulmonary Veins. The Aorta (Gr. airo, I raise up) conveys blood from the left side of the heart to all parts of the body. The Pulmonary Arteries (Lat. pulmo, a lung) convey blood from the right side of the heart to the hcngs. The Venae Cavae collect the blood from all parts (the superior from the upper, and the inferior from the lotver parts), and carry It mto the right cavity. ^ The Pulmonary Veins collect the blood which has circulated m the lungs, and convey it into the left cavity. It will be noticed that the auricle and ventricle of each side ot the heart communicate with eacn other, so that the blood which has entered the auricle can pass into the corresponding ventricle We must now examine the interior of the heart For this purpose proceed as follows Hold the heart with W.?,front surface toward you (see fig \\a\ and mil-P n clean cut through the wall of the right ventricle, aboS hSf an from ^^^^^ groove before mentioned, and extending from the top of the ventricle to he apex of the heart. Now open the ventricle by pushing asfde this cut wdl and observe the following points in connection with its sfructure •- cohLn7of flesh ?nohf^' ventricle is almost entirely n^^,sc^clar, and numerous ""^^^^^^ from its surface. Some of these stand out hke pyramids, and are called the papillary muscles (Lat! pafSa Fig. 117.—The Semilunar Valves of the Trunk of the Pulmonary Arteries, the Vessel being cut and laid open.