THE NERVOUS SYSTEM—NERVES 17; greyish nerve cells, has the power to generate or produce an impulse as well as to conduct it—it serves as a receiver and a transmitter as well as a generator. We may compare a nerve centre to a galvanic battery, and the nerves to the wires which convey the electric current. The battery generates the electric current, which flows along one of the wires, and returns to the battery by the other wire, thus com- pleting the circuit. The battery, like the nerve centre, generates, receives, and transmits; while the wires of the battery, representing the nerves, simply conduct. This simile may be yet further extended, for as one wire of the battery takes away the current and the other brings it back, so there are nerve fibres which conduct nerve impulses only to a nerve centre, while other fibres convey them only from the centre. Those nerve fibres which conduct im- pulses only to a nerve centre are called afferent (Lat ad, to ; and fero, I carry) or sensory fibres. By means of these we are capable of feeling pain or of experiencing any other sensation. For example, when a body vibrates rapidly, and the vibrations are transmitted through the air to the ear, they are taken up by the auditory nerve and conveyed to the brain, producing the sensa- tion called sound. Thus the auditory nerve is an afferent or sensory nerve. Those nerve fibres which convey im- pressions only from a nerve centre are termed efferent (Lat. e, out; and fero). They are also called motor, because their office is to produce motion.' They origi- nate in a nerve centre, and they terminate m muscular fibres. When they receive an impulse from a nerve centre they convey that impulse to the fibres they govern, causing hem to coritract. Thus, when we hear a sharp sound beh nd us, we quickly turn the head, or start running. The sound v bra tions, o re,,h.ng the brain, set up a disturUce in the o'gan nerves Tch%;fnnl" ^^^ucted through the efi^erent or ml; caTsS ttm toToSacf"" "^^^ ^ ^-^s, and always result ?rom t^TrUatiS 0^^^?."'"" ' "^^-^ Fig. 163. Fibres. White Nerve Magnified. N