72' ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY diiodcm\ twelve), being considered to be about twelve finger- breadths long. The upper two-fifths of the remainder is called the jejunum, and the lower three-fifths the ileum (Gr. ///<?, I twist). There are, however, no distinct lines of separation between these three parts. The large intestine is a wider tube, about sbc feet long, and varying in width from one inch and a-half to two inches and a-half. It is divided into the cccaiin, colon., and rectum. The caecum or blind intestine (Lat. cccciis, blind) is a kind of .pouch, situated on the right side of the abdomen, below the junction of the small intestine (the ileum) with the large intestine. The colon extends up^vards from this point, till it reaches the level of the lower surface of the stomach ; it then turns to the left, passing under the stomach, and is again deflected downward till it termi- nates/"^^sl^the rectum (Lat. straight)—the last part of the intestines. Thus the colon is arranged like three sides of a square, the parts being called the ascending, transverse, and descending colon respectively. The mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and intestines together form the alinientary canal (Lat. altmentutu, nourishment), and each part does its share in the digestion of the food and the separation cif'the nutritious from the non-nutritious portions. The iiver is a very large reddish-brown organ, consisting of two lobes or parts—the right and the left—and weighing three or four pounds. The upper surface of the liver is convex and smooth, and fits closely against the under and concave surface of the diaphragm. The right lobe is larger than the left, and extends well over the right side of the abdomen, touching the intestines and right kidney; while the smaller and left lobe crosses the middle line and partly covers the stomach. The liver prepares-j'a fluid called the bile, which assists in the process of digestion. This bile is stored in a bladder called" the gall-bladder, situated on the under surface of this organ. The paifftreas (Gr. J>a7t, all ; and kreas, flesh) or sweetbread is another organ which prepares a digestive fluid—the pancreatic juice. It lies just behind the stomach and extends from the duo- denum to the spleen. It 'is about seven inches long and one and a-half wide, and weighs about three ounces. The fluid which it prepares is conveyed into the duodenum by the pancreatic duct. The spleen or milt is a dark purple-grey organ, Aveighing about six ounces, and situated closely against the cardiac extremity of the stomach. It is engaged in the production of some of the constituents of the blood. The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, measuring about