238 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 1889. I. What is tiic composition of ordinary atmospheric air? State exactly how expired air dilfers from inspired air, and explain how these differences can a^i^tdK^aiJ^r ' ''"''"^ ^^^'^ stom;ph'''^ wJ", ^"''"ll ^^\^°^y' general structure oP^he s omach. What are the chief changes that an ordinary meal undergoes in the stomach, and in what condition does the food which is not absorbed by the stomach pass througli the pylorus into the duodenum ? (l e) 3; capillary? About how big is a capillary? How does a capillary differ from an arfery and from a yein ? What changes take place in the blood as it passes through a capillary in such a tissue as a muscle ' In what parts of the body are no capillaries to be found ? /jc) 4. Describe the form and general structure of the left ventricle of the heart Describe the valves as they may be seen when the cavity is laid open. Explain how the ventricle empties itself at each beat of the heart. (15) 5. Give an account of the position and general structure of the liver Where does most of the blood supplying the liver come from ? Does that blood which thus reaches the liver while digestion is going on, differ from the blood which reaches the liver when no food has been taken for some time ? If so, how? (joj 6. Explain how it is that the body has always nearly the same temperature, whatever be the temperature of the surrounding air. (lo) 7. What is "serum" of .blood? What are the most important bodies present in it? How does serum differ from plasma ? (10) 8. What is the pupil ? By what means does it grow larger, and by what means does it grow smaller ? Why does it generally become small in the light, and large in the dark ? (10) 9. What is meant by proteid food ? Give examples. Why cannot we live without proteid food ? Why is it desirable to have other food beside proteids ? (10) 10. What is the form, general structure, and position of the spleen ? Where does the blood coming from the spleen go to? (10) II. Describe the structure of a muscle as far as can be made out without a microscope. What is meant by the contraction of a muscle ? What change of form takes place in a muscle when it contracts ? (10) 12. What are the lacteals? How does the chyle which they contain after a meal get into the blood ? • (10) 1890. 1. W^hat structures form the walls of the thorax, or chest? How is the thorax made air-tight ? What important viscera are contained in it, and what positions do they occupy in it? Explain how changes in the diaphragm alter the size of the thorax. (15) 2. If a heart, a sheep's heart, for instance, removed from the body, were put before you, how could you tell which was the top, which the bottom, which the front, and which the back ? What are the chief differences between the left ventricle and the right ventricle, and what purposes are served by these differences? (15) 3. What is the spinal cord ? Where is it placed ? Explain how the spinal cord is protected from injury by the structure and arrangements of the walls of the cavity in which it lies. (15)