kLteMENTARY PIlYStOLOGY &8 QUESTIONS ON LESSON XVII. 1. What is a gland ? Give examples of the different kinds b( glands. 2. Describe some of the various forms of glands. .3. Describe the general character and use of mucous meinbraue. Mention any part of the body where this membrane may be found. 4. Describe the form, size, and position of each of the chief salivary glands. Where are the openings of the ducts of these glands ? 5. W'hat is the saliva ? Describe its composition. What is its use ? 6. What quantity of saliva is secreted daily ? Is it always secreted at the same rate? If not, state the circumstances which accelerate or retard its flow ? 7. What is ptyaliiil How would you illustrate the action of ptyalin on certain food-substances? LESSON XVIII. THE (ESOPHAGUS AND DEGLUTITION. THE STOMACH AND GASTRIC DIGESTION. The oesophagus is the narrowest portion of the ahmentary canal, and, although generally described as muscular, it consists of three distinct coats.^—The outer coat is thick and muscular, and con- sists of two distinct sets of muscular fibres, some running longi- tudinally, i.e. lengthwise down the tube, and the others passing in a circular direction round it. The inner coat is a mucous mevi- bmne, which, as its name implies, contains mucous glands ; it is drawn up into longitudinal folds, thus increasing the amount of secreting surface. The middle coat consists of a loose filamentous membrane called connective, areolar, or fibrous tissue, which imites the outer and inner coats of the tube. After the food has been masticated and thoroughly mixed with the saliva, it is collected into a bolus by the tongue and the muscles of the cheeks, and then passed between the tongue and the palate till it reaches, the back of the mouth. This muscular action may be voluntary, but is usually performed uncon- sciously. The food must now pass into the pharynx without touching the posterior nares or entering the glottis. This is accomplished as follows The larytix and pharynx are both raised together and carried forward under the tongue. The glottis is closed by the epiglottis ; and the posterior narcs are shut off by the sides of the soft palate. The contraction of the muscles at the back of the mouth forces the food over the epiglottis into the pharynx. The pharynx now contracts above it, and the bolus is forced into the