192 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXII. I. Describe the structure of the spinal cord as revealed in a transverse sec- tion. Illuslratc your description by a sketch. 2- nowjs^ the spinal cord protected? Compare it in this respect with the 3. Ilow are the spinal nerves arranged.' How do they pass out from the spmal canal ? 4. Describe the arrangement and the functions of the roots of the spinal nerves. ' 5. How would you prove (i) that the anterior roots consist of motor fibres only, (2) that the posterior roots consist of sensory fibres only, and (3) that the spinal nerves contain both sensory and motor iiljrcs? 6. Give a proof that the spinal cord is a nerve centre. 7. How is it that a man in a fit, though quite unconscious, may m on breathmg regularly ? What part of the nervous system keeps up and regulates the act of breathing ? 8. Why is a man whose back is broken unable of himself to move his legs though they may move involuntarily when the feet are tickled ? ' 9. Wlien a man's neck is broken death is sometimes instantaneous. How is this brought about ? 10. How do we know that the nerve fibres which are employed when a limb is moved are different from those which are set in action when pain is felt in that limb ? ^ 11. When your leg is kept for a long time in one position it sometimes 'goe^ to sleep.' What is the condition of the limb at this time, and how is it brought about ? 12. Instances of injury or disease have been met with in which the power of movement in a limb has been lost and yet feeling has remained, and others in which feeling has been lost and yet the power of movement has been retained. State what parts must have been affected by the injury or disease in these cases. LESSON XXXIII. SENS A TIONS— TO UCH. The nervous system is the medium by which we derive a know- kdge of the existence of the various parts of the body, and of the external world. This knowledge is based upon sensations. In _ order to produce a sensation of any kind, three distinct conditions are necessary. These are:—(i) some disturbing con- dition which irritates one or more sensory fibres; (2) the trans- mission of this irritation along the sensory fibres to the nerve-centre (the brain); and (3) the translation of the irritation in the nerve- centre into a state of consciousness. Some of the sensations, such as sight and hearing, are produced by means of a specially constructed organ of sense, so that they