156 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY arrangement of the small branches Fig. 142. — Longitudinal Section of a Portal Vein and Canal. Magnified about 5 diameters. a. portions of the canal from which the vein has been removed ; b, side of the portal vein in con- tact with the canal ; c, the side of the vein which is separated from the canal by the hepatic artery and duct, with areolar tissue (Glisson's capsule); d, internal surface of the portal vein, through which are seen the outlines of the lobules and the openings, e, of the interlobular veins ; g^, hepatic artery ; h, hepatic duct. Fig. 143.—Transverse Section of a small Portal Canal and its Vessels. I, portal vein ; 2, interlobular branches; 3, other branches; 4, hepatic duct; 5, hepatic artery. and capillaries of the four vessels of the liver. It will now be convenient to trace the branches of the.se vessels separately, in order to learn their relations to each other. The branches of the portal vein give off small veins which surrotmd the lobules and separate them from each other. These small veins are consequently call- ed the interlobular veins. The interlobular veins give off still smaller branches, which run to- ward the centres of the lobules, and give rise to a close network of capillaries. These capillaries then unite to form other small veins which collect the blood and convey it into vessels which oc- cupy the centres of the lobules, and which are called the intralobular veins. The intralobular veins then convey the blood to the bases of the lobules, and into the larger sublobular veins, around which the lobules are placed. The sublobular veins unite to form the hepatic vein, which vein carries the blood direct to the ascending vena cava. Thus the interlobular veins are the dis- tributing branches of the portal vein ; and the intralobular veins and the sublobular veins may be regarded as the collecting branches of the hepatic vein ; the two sets of branches being united by the capillaries of the lobule. The hepatic artery, as already stated, brings bright arterial blood to the various structures of the liver, for these structures, like all other parts of the body, need a supply of oxygen gas. The branches of this artery are dis.- tributed like those of the portal vein ; and the blood brought by them is, after circulation through capillary systems, returned either into the subdivisions of the portal vein or into the capillary network of the lobules. Thus the bright