53 THE STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE 1 ver}' small portion of muscle, and, after teasing it out till it is so fine as to be almost invisible to the naked eye, examine it with the help of a good microscope. In this way we may learn that the fasciculi are composed of fibres, each of which is not more than j^th. of an inch in diameter on an average ; and that these fibres are coinposed of still smaller fibres called fibrillae {l^zX. fibrilla, a little fibre). \Vhen the fibrillse are examined under a high magnifying power, they are seen to consist of little disc-shaped bodies, united in such a manner as to pro- duce transverse markings. It is on this account that voluntary muscle is often called striped or striated muscle. Every fibre in a voluntary muscle is enclosed in a sheath of connective tissue called sarcolemma (Gr. sarx, flesh ; and lemma, a husk). This is a very thin, transparent, and comparatively tough membrane, which will some- times remain entire after the enclosed fibrils have been ruptured by stretching or twisting, as represented in fig. 57. Involuntary muscle is also called non-striated, or unstriped muscle, because it does not present transverse markings when examined under the miscroscope, as does voluntary muscle. Involuntary muscle is often made up of bundles of fibres ; but the fibres, instead of being of uniform diameter throughout, are composed of elongated cells which are generally pointed at their ends. These fibres have no sarcolemma. The muscular fibres of the heart differ remarkably from those of in- voluntary muscles in general, as they are striated transversely, like those of the voluntary muscles. They are composed of quadrangular and branched cells, which exhibit longitudinal as well as transverse striae. SUMMARY. Under the control of the will. Composed of bundles of fibres. These bundles composed of smaller bundles {fasciculi), visible to the unaided eye, and surrounded by sheaths. Fasciculi composed of fibres, each of which is surrounded by a sheath of sarcolemma. VOLUNTARY MUSCLE.' (Striated or Striped.) Average diameter about ^ in. Fibres made up of minute fibrillce {fibrils). Fibrillse composed of disc-like bodies, and are consequently striated transversely. Not under the control of the will. Found chiefly in the muscular walls of the internal organs and vessels. Fibres composed of elongated cells with pointed ends, not marked transversely. Involuntary, yet striped or striated. Striated longitudinally as well as transversely. \ Fibres composed of oblo7ig and branched cells. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VIII. I. Describe the structure of voluntary muscle. What is sarcolemma''. What is its use ? Describe the manner in which voluntary muscles are connected with bones. What are voluntary and invohmtary muscles ? Give examples of each Describe the structure of involuntary muscles. In what respects do they aittcr from voluntary muscles ? Descril)e the structure of the muscular fibres of the heart INVOLUNTARY MUSCLE. (Non-striated or Unstriped.) MUSCLES OF THE HEART.