THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 49 body this coagulation usually sets in at from four to six hours after death, and continues for one, two, or three days, The erect position of the human body is maintained by the combined influence of a large number of muscles acting at the same time. The whole weight of the body rests on the arches of the feet; and the body may be supported in any position providing its centre of gravity is situated vertically over any point in the space enclosed by the feet. On account of the large number and suppleness of the joints, the centre of gravity cannot be main- tained in such a position as described above without the contraction of certain muscles which give a degree of rigidity to the body. (Fig. 54.) The muscles of the calf prevent the body from falling forward, but the contraction of these alone would pull the body backward, as they act on the thigh-bone, just above and behind the knee-joint. These muscles are therefore opposed by another set in front of the thigh, which connect the hip-bone above with the bones of the leg below the knee, and which, by their contraction, pull the leg straight. Then, again, these muscles tend to pull the trunk of the body forward, but they are balanced by the powerful muscles of the buttocks and back. Further, the contraction of the muscles of the back of the neck would pull the head backward, were it not for the contraction of antagonistic muscles which connect the lower part of the face with the sternum and collar-bone. When a person begins to walk, he first inclines the body for- ward, then raises one foot, swings the leg forward one step, and puts the foot to ground again. Now, just for a moment, the legs form with the ground an isosceles triangle, and consequently the trunk of the body is a little lower. But, before the foot reaches the ground, the contraction of the calf of the other leg raises th^ heel, and propels the body forward. The weight of the body is thrown on the first foot, and the one behind swings forward and E Fig- S3-~The Biceps Muscle. I, clavicle ; 2, scapula ; 3, humerus ; 4, radius : 5, ulna; 6, the biceps muscle.