THE SKIN QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXVIII. 1. Of what parts is the skin composed ? How do these differ from each other ? , „ 2. What are the pores of the skin ? What purpose do they serve ? 3. AVhat is the difference between the skin of a European and that of a negi'o ? 4. What is the use of the epidermis ? 5. What purpose is served by the fatty tissue imbedded in the deeper portion of the dermis and in the tissue beneath it ? 6. Where are the sweat glands situated ? What are their uses ? Describe briefly the structure of these glands. 7. What do you know about perspiration 1 What circumstances determine the amount of perspiration secreted ? 8. How much perspiration is secreted daily ? How is it that we sometimes see it on the surface of the skin, while at other times it is insettsible ? 9. Compare the function of the skin with that of the lungs. 10. What is the structure of a nail ? tl ow does a nail grow ? 11. Describe the structure of a hair, and say how the hair is connected with the skin. 12. "SVhat are sebaceous glands ? What is their use ? 13. By what means is the hair made to * stand on end ' ? LESSON XXIX. THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys, two in number, are situated at the back of the abdomen, one on each side of the upper lumbar vertebrae. They are deeply seated in the loins, behind the peritoneum, and are held in this position by their own vessels, and by a quantity of areolar tissue which usually contains much fat. They measure about 4 inches in length, 2-^- inches in width, and i^inch in thick- ness, their weight being about 4i- ounces each. The kidneys are arranged with their concave surfaces directed towards the vertebral column ; and the right kidney, which is usually shorter and thicker than the left, is generally a little lower, probably on account of the downward extension of the large right lobe of the liver. The surface of the kidney is smooth, and of a deep red colour. It is covered with a thin fibrou^ coat—the capsule—which invests the organ closely, but which can easily be detached. In the concave surface of the kidney there is a longitudinal depression called the hilus, at which the vessels and nerves enter or pass out. The concavity of the kidney is usually filled in with areolar and fatty tissue, through which the "vessels pass to and from the organ ; and by carefully removing this substance three vessels may be traced to their entrance into the kidney.