EXAMINATION PAPERS 241 II What do you understand by absorption from the alimentary canal? What are the things which are absorbed from the alimentary canal ? What are the two paths along one or other of which the absorbed matters travel, and whither does the one and the other lead them ? (10) i'> Explain how it is that when a man "breaks his neck" he dies at once, but if he " breaks his back " he may live for a long while afterwards.^ n 11 a person who is standing or sitting up feels faint, what is the best thing to do to prevent his fainting? Explain the reason of the measures which you would adopt. ^ 1893. I. What is the spinal column or backbone ? Of what structures is it made up, and how are these structures connected together so as to form the back- bone ^ How does the spinal column end above and below ? (IS) 2 How can you tell by examining the outside of a heart which is its right side and which is its left side ? What are the differences between the tnside of the right and left sides of the heart ? To what differences in the use of each side of the heart do these differences in structure correspond ? _ (15). 3. Where is the large intestine placed in the body ? How does it begin and how does it end, and how does it lie between its beginning and end? How does it differ in structure from the small intestine ? What changes does food undergo inside the large intestine ? (i5) 4. In what direction and in what manner does the blood flow in a large artery as of the leg, and in what direction and in what manner does it flow in a large vein of the same leg ? What makes it flow in the direction and in the manner you describe in the artery and in the vein ? How does the blood pass from the artery into the vein? What is the blood doing while it is passing from the artery into the vein, and what is the use of this to the leg? (^S) . 5. What does a long bone taken fresh out of an animal look like when it is cut into two lengthwise ? What would it look like if it were cut in two after it had been boiled or had been buried for a long time ? What is the cause of the differences? What happens to a bone when it is burnt in a fire ? (10) 6. By what organ is urine formed ? Where is this organ placed on each side of the body, and what does it look like ? What are the most important substances of which urine is composed? Where do these substances come from before they find their way into the urine, and why must they always be got rid of to a greater or less extent ? _ (lo) 7. Your body is always warm while it is alive, and it is just as warm on a cold day as on a hot day. Why is your body warm, and how is it kept equally warm both in cold and hot weather? (10) 8. With what kinds of food-stuffs should the body be supplied each day, and in about what proportions ? How do the several food-stuffs differ essen- tially from each other? On which one food-stuff could an animal be kept alive ? Why is it better and more economical not to eat this one food-stuff only but to mix the others with it? (10) 9. Where is the pancreas or sweetbread placed in the body ? What is the pancreas ? What does the pancreas do which makes it useful to the body ? (10) ID. What muscles are attached to the eyeballs ? What movements of the eyeball are brought about by the contractions of these muscles ? What is the cause of squinting ? • (10) II. What nerves are connected directly with the spinal cord, and how are they connected ? If you saw one person who could move his arm but could R