148 KLEMENTAKV I'ilYSlOLOGY is firmly attached to the outer surfocc of the organs, while the otlier hnes the cavity of the chest, being closely adherent to its walls. Thus the chest is an air-tight cavity, having no ^/>^r/communi- cation with the atmosphere ; while the lungs maybe considered as bags filling this cavity, being themselves filled out with air which enters through the trachea. Although in fig. 78 a space is represented between the two layers of the pleura, this is not actually the case, the space being inserted only for the sake of distinctness : the two layers of the pleura are practically in contact with each other, there being nothing between them save a very little watery fluid (serum) which is se- creted by the membrane, and only suificient of this to allow of a free gliding motion during the respiratory move- ments of the chest and lungs. Such a secreting closed sac is called a serous membrane. If a hole be made in the walls of the chest, the lungs immediately collapse, be- coming considerably smaller; and while the chest is thus perforated breathing is very difficult, or, if the opening is Fig. 134.—The Framework of the Chest, large, quite impossible. It A, first dorsal vertebra; b, last (12th) dorsal verte- is the natural elasticity of the bra; 1 to 12, ribs ; s, sternum; c, costal carti- JungS which CaUSCS them tO shrink away from the walls of the chest ; hence it must be that in their normal condition they are stretched by some force which is able to overcome this elasticity. Respiration is the result of the alternate expansion and con- traction of the walls of the chest. In inspiration (Lat. in, and spiro, I breathe) we enlarge the chest by means of certain muscles, and so tend to produce a vacuum (an empty space) between the lungs and the chest; and, as a natural result, air rushes in through the trachea, thus causing the lungs to expand with the chest. When these muscles cease to contract, the elasticity of the lungs causes those organs to return to their former volume. The walls of the chest follow the lungs, and the air taken in is expelled