ET>EM N TARY P11YSIOLOGY passes in front of the other. A forward motion is thus given to the body, which is maintained without the • » expenditure of much muscular force. It ^r~^cl will be observed that both feet are never ~ off the ground at the same time in walking; also that, as the forward motion of each leg is a S7vinging motion, it follows the law of pendulum motion—the longer the pendulum the more slowly it swings. Hence the natural step of a child is quicker than that of a tall man. Running differs from walking in that the heels are never brought to the ground, and both feet are off the ground at the same time for a brief period at each stride. The contraction of the muscles is also much more rapid, and, in ^ addition, the sudden straightening of the legs, by the contraction of the muscles of the thighs, adds greatly to the force with which the body is propelled forward. Jumping resembles running, as far as the action of individual muscles is con- cerned, but both legs act simultaneously instead of alternately, so that the body is thrown forward to a greater distance. Fig. 54.—Diagram showing the Action of the chief Muscles which keep the Body erect. Muscles which tend to keep the body from falling forward. I, muscles of the calf; 2, of the back of the thigh; 3, of the spinal column. Muscles which tend to keep the body from falling backward. i' muscles of the front of the leg ; 2', of the front of the thigh; 3', of the front of the abdomen; 4', of the front of the neck. The arrows indicate the direction ' ' m which these muscles act. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VII. 1. Describe the general character and appear- ance of muscle. 2. What is the difference between voluntary z.xA involuntary xcMS.cX&^'i Give examples of each. 3. Describe the manner in which muscles are connected with bones. 4. Describe the action of any one voluntary muscle, showing how its form changes during this action. 5. What is a tendon 1 Where are tendons to be found ? 6. Define the terms origin and insertion as applied to muscles. 7 Why are voluntary muscles generally ar- ranged in pairs which act in opposition to each other ? . , , j 8. How is the erect posture of the body main- tained ?