THE EYE AND VISION 211 While the image of the candle-flame still falls on the ground-glass screen, insert one of the diaphragms between the watch-glass and the lens. The image now is not so bright as before, since a large proportion of the light is shut off, but it is sharper; or, in other words, the definition is better. Also, by using diaphragms with different apertures, we find that, the smaller the Fig. 199. aperture, the sharper the image. Thus we have illustrated the use of the ins—the diaphragm of the eye, in shutting off the extraneous light which tends to blur the image produced. We may illustrate the formation of images in the eye by a more simple apparatus than that just described :—Procure a globular glass flask to represent the eyeball, and attach to the side of it a circular and perforated piece of opaque paper to represent the iris (fig. 200). Now fix a convex lens on a cork, and a piece of ground glass on another cork. Place the convex lens in front of the iris, and the ground-glass screen a few inches from the flask on the opposite side. The lens, of course, represents the crystalline lens, Fig. 200. and produces the same effect as it it were behind the iris; and a clear inverted image of a candle-flame may be formed on the ground glass by adiustinc the (hstance as in our previous experiments. As our last illustration, we may compare the eye as an optical instrument to the photographer's camera. This consists of a dark box fitted with a con- vex lens in _front_ and a ground-glass screen behind. Rays of light from illu- minated objects in front of the camera first pass through a diaphragm which cuts off the outer rays. The central rays then pass onto the Ls,% wh c they are made to converge and form inverted images on the screen Thi' screen is niovable, so that it may be adjusted to receive the images of ob/ect^ at different distances without changing the lens. >J"Ji-lis In the eye the retina is the screen on which the images fall • but this screen is not moved forwards and backwards as in the p 2