WHY WE BREATHE—VENTILATION When an animal is strangled, choked, or drowned, the same disease (asphyxia) ensues. In these cases no oxygen can enter the blood, while the carbonic acid gas is fast accumulating by the oxidation of the tissues, and soon saturates the blood, all of which rapidly becomes venous. The occurrence of death m a few minutes shows the importance of oxygen gas in the renewmg of the blood. We have now learnt the necessity of ventilatmg our rooms — that is, of allowing for the removal of the expired air, and for the access of pure air from the outside atmosphere to take its place. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXV. 1. What changes take place in blood as it passes (i) through the capillaries of the lungs, and (2) through the capillaries of the muscles ? 2. What is the temperature of the blood? How is this temperature maintained ? 3. What is the difference between inspired and expired air ? 4. What is asphyxia ? How is it caused ? 5. What is the direct cause of death when an animal is strangled ? 6. How is it that a person turns black in the face when he is choked ? 7. If a number of people were shut up in a close room without any ventilation, what changes would the atmosphere undergo? What would be the probable condition of the atmosphere (l) when the people began to complain, and (2) when they began to die? 8. What is meant by oxidation ? How do we know that oxidation is always going on in the body ? LESSON XXVI. HOIV WE BREATHE. Before we go on to describe the manner in which the air is caused to enter and leave the lungs, it will be desirable to recall a few particulars concerning the structure of the chest and the lungs. The walls of the chest are formed by the back bone behind, the breast bone or sternum in front, the ribs with their intercostal muscles around the sides, and the membranous and muscular diaphragm below. The heads of the ribs form movaOie joints with the dorsal vertebrze, and the other ends of the ribs are con- nected in front with the sternum by the flexible costal cartilages. The lungs fill the greater part of the conical cavity of the thorax —all excepting the small portion occupied by the lower trachea, the oesophagus^ and the heart with its great vessels. They are enclosed in a double membrane—the pleura—one layer of which