ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 233 The course taken by the air when breathing through the nose. In what respects the air whicli leaves the lungs diflers from that which enters them. The obvious differences between venous and arterial blood. Where and how venous blood is converted into arterial, and arterial into venous blood in the body. How venous blood can be converted into arterial blood out of the body. The conditions which give rise to asphyxia. f. The Urinary System. The structure of the kidney so far as it is visible to the naked eye. The composition of urine as far as its chief constituents are concerned • the significance of these as waste products. g. The Skin. The obvious differences between the dermis and epidermis. Tiie general composition of sweat. The more obvious functions of the skin. h. Animal Heat. The sources of the heat of the body. The manner in which heat is dis- tributed through the body, and in which the temperature of the body is regulated. i. The Muscular System and Animal Mechanics. The structure of muscle, of tendon, and of bone, so far as it can be made out by the naked eye or a simple lens. The mode of attachment of muscles to bones. The nature of joints, with examples of ball-and-socket, hinge, and pivot joints. The different kinds of levers, with examples of them in the body. The way in which muscles lead to the movements of the body. k. The Senses. The different kinds of sensations. The means of measuring the acuteness of the sense of touch in various parts of the body. The general sti'ucture of the organs of smell and taste, and the manner in which their functions are performed. The general structural arrangements of the eye-ball. Such characters of the cornea, sclerotic, choroid, iris, aqueous and vitreous humours, crystalline lens, and retina as can be observed by ordinary dissection. The uses of the cornea, iris, and crystalline lens. How the pupil is enlarged and made narrower, and for wha.t purposes. The change undergone by the lens when looking from a distant to a near object ; the object of this change. The blind spot, and what it teaches. The essential facts as to the structural an angements of the ear so far as they are required to explain how sound-waves are conveyed to the nerves of hearing. /. Tlie Nervous System. The chief parts into which the brain may be divided. The structure of the spinal cord so far as it is visible to the naked eye. The arrangement and the functions of the roots of the spinal nerves. The general way in which the spinal cord is connected to the bram by means of the spinal bulb or medulla oblongata. The evidence that the spinal cord is capable of effectmg reflex action. The general phenomena presented by an animal deprived of its bram, as illustrating some of the more important functions of the brain.