THE LIVER l6l 4- Describe the gall-bladder. Where is it situated ? What is its use ? AVhat does it contain? Give the names of the vessels connected with it. In which direction does the fluid move in these vessels ? Illustrate your answer by a sketch. 5. What is the nature of the fluid contained in the portal vein ? Where does this fluid come from ? 6. I low is it that the liver discharges less blood than it receives ? In what respects does the blood discharged differ from that received ? 7. What is a portal canal ? What does it contain ? 8. What is the size of an hepatic lobule ? Describe the arrangement of its constituent parts. How does the blood circulate through a lobule ? 9. Where is the bile formed ? Describe the course of its circulation {a) when the digestive organs are active, and {l>) after fasting. 10. What are the chief functions of the liver? 11. What is the quantity of bile secreted daily ? What becomes of all this ? 12. What are the chief uses of the bile ? (See Lesson XIX.) 13. What is glycogen ? Where is it formed, what is its use, and what becomes of it ? LESSON XXVIII. THE SKIN. The skin or integument forms a protective covering over the whole of the body. It consists of two layers, the epidermis and the dermis. The epidermis (Gr. epi, upon ; and derma, the skin) cuticle, or scarf-skin, covers every part of the dermis or triie skin. It is hard and horny, and composed of minute scales which are being continu- ally worn away from the surface. The thickness of the epidermis varies in diffe- rent parts. In the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet—parts which are much exposed to great pressure—it is as much as of an inch, wliile in some parts the thickness is less than of an inch. The surface of the epidermis presents a multitude of minute openings when viewed with a magnifying glass. These are called the pores of the skin, and are really the openmgs of the ducts of little glands which secrete the sweat or perspiration. The epidermis itself contains no blood-vessels and but few nerves, its office being simply to protect the deeper layer of the M Fig. 149.—Magnified View of the Epi- dermis, showing' the Pores. s