4 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY The skull rests on tlie upper extremity of the backbone. It consists in part of a large, hollow, bony case. Continuous with the cavity thus formed is a tube which runs through the l)ackbone. Hence it is common to speak of the human body as enclosing two distinct tuljes or cavities : —one surrounded by the skull and the backbone, and the other the great cavity already mentioned on page I. And this is true not only of the human body, but also of the bodies of all the back-boned or vertebrate animals. The cavity formed by the backbone contains the great nerve called the spinal cord, a prolongation of the brain. The arms and the legs resemble each other very closely in the general arrangement of their bones. The upper arm consists of one bone, which corresponds with the bone of the thigh. The fore- arm consists of two bones arranged t \ 'III' "iff mx M. side by side, as does also the leg. •'y/C'' 1 mW\ bones of the wrist and hand, yl^^^^^fe^'S i"i^uch resemble those of the ankle and foot respectively. Muscular System.—The bones of the skeleton are all surrounded by more or less flesh or muscle. Each muscle is composed of bundles of fibres. These fbres have the power of contracting in the direction of their length and so shortening the muscles ; and thus the bones with which the ends of the muscles are connected are brought nearer to- gether. It is in this way that we are enabled to exercise the body in various ways. The muscles, too, assist very largely in givmg a rounded form to the body. , . , . t-u Muscles are of two V.md&—voluntarv and involuntary. 1 He former are under the control of the will, while the latter are not ^Ve have examples of voluntary muscles m those of the face and the limbs. The muscles of the heart and the stomach are of the involuntary kind. . i ui, Those muscles which move the bones are connected with them bv strong white fibrous masses called tendons (fig. 4 )• The digestive or alimentary system (Lat. alimentum, nourish- ment) consists of the food-passage and the various organs which pre- pare the digestive fluids. The food-passage consists oi^^^nwuth pharynx, mophagus or gullet, stomach, and intestines. (See fig. 80.) Pig. 2.—The Ligaments of the Wrist.