THE BLOOD-VESSELS AND CIRCULATION 135 This action of the elastic walls of the arteries may be well illustrated by the following experiments :—Fasten one end of a long glass or metal tube to the stop-cock of a water pipe by means of an india-rubber tube as short as possible, and fix a small nozzle to its other end. Then turn the cock on and off alter- nately and rapidly, to imitate the intermittent discharges of the ventricles. The water will issue from the other end of the pipe in a series of jets, each jet ceasing the moment the water is turned off. Next, substitute a long india- rubber tube for the one just used, and repeat the experiment. It will now be found that a continuous stream issues from the tube. The pressure of water stretches the elastic tube, and, when the stream is turn'ed off, the india-rubber recoils on the water, and the intermittent flow is changed into a continuous stream. As the blood passes from the larger into the smaller arteries, and then into the capillaries, it comes in contact with a gradually increasing amount of surface. This multiplication of surface greatly increases the resistance offered to the blood by friction, which also tends to equalise the current as well as to reduce its velocity. Not only is the surface increased, but also the total sectional area of the small arteries or capillaries of any part is much greater than that of the large artery or arteries supplying that part, so much so that the velocity of the blood in the capillaries is only that in the aorta. As the blood passes onward into the veins, the velocity again increases, owing to the decrease of area, but the circulation in these vessels is less rapid than in the corresponding arteries, the capacity of the former being two or three times that of the latter. These facts explain how it is that, while the flow of blood from a cut artery is intermittent and rapid, the stream from a vein of the same size is continuous and slower. The time required for a portion of the blood to make a complete circulation, i.e. to pass through arteries, capillaries, and veins, is less than one minute. Seeing that the blood passes so slowly through the capillaries this may appear incredible, but it must be remembered that each portion of the blood passes through only a very short distance of capillary tube, probably less than i of an inch in any case. We may now view the circulation as a whole, tracing the course of the blood from a certain point till it arrives at that same point again. The blood which has been collected from all parts by the venaB cavae is poured into the right auricle. It then passes into the right ventricle, and is forced through the pulmonary arteries into the lungs. After circulating through the capillaries of the lungs, where it gives up carbonic acid gas and absorbs oxygen, it is collected by the pulmonary veins, and conveyed by them into the left auricle, and thence into the left ventricle. This ventricle contracts, forcing the blood through the aorta and its branches into capillary networks in all the tissues, excepting those few, such as the outer skin, the nails, hair, enamel of the teeth, &c., which are bloodless. It is then collected up by veins which convey it directly or indirectly into the venae cavae, thus completing a revolution. It will thus be seen that there are two distinct circulations by which the blood can pass from one side of the heart to the other. One is called the pulmonary circulation, by which it passes frotn