Recipes. 473 firm remove the papers, and sprinkle caster sugar on the top. The souffle may be improved by using only three-quarters ot a pint of milk for the arrowroot, and afterwards stirring in one gill of thick cream. 577.—MACAROON SOUFFLE. Mix one dessertspoonful of arrowroot with half a pint of milk Ooz of finely grated macaroons, and a piece of butter the size ol a walnut Bring all to the boil and let cool. Beat the whites ot two eggs till stiff. Mix the yolks with the macaroon, &c. and a little sugar, and then add the whiles. Mix lightly, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. 578 —CRANBERRY AND APPLE PUDDING. Pick the cranberries, wash them well, and let them drain on a hair sieve till wanted. Cut up into a stewpan about lib. of good cooking apples, add 2oz. of caster sugar, half a pod of vanilla (split),” a quarter of a pint of water, and cook to a pulp; then rub it through a sieve. Take a }lb. of good beef suet finely chopped, 11b. of fine flour, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of Cowan’s baking powder, and mix into a stiff paste with cold water. Roll it out to about a } inch thick, and neatly line some little dariol moulds with it, having first well buttered the moulds and masked over the butter with brown sugar. Spread the apple puree all over the inside of the paste, fill up the dariols with the cran- berries, and put into each a good teaspoonful of caster sugar and a teaspoonful of water. Cover over the tops with a layer of paste, tie a little piece of cloth over each mould, put them into a sauce- pan will boiling water, and let them boil for one and a quarter hours. Take them up, remove the cloths, run a little knife round the edges, turn them out on to a very hot dish, and serve with Devonshire cream or whipped cream. Reckon one for each person. —Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 579.—LITTLE SAUCER PUDDINGS. Mix three tablespoonfuls of ground rice with two of caster sugar. Beat two eggs thoroughly and add, and make a smooth, thick paste with about a cupful of new milk and a _ tablespoon ful of cream. Fill some buttered saucers with this mixture, and bake for nearly half an hour. When baked remove from saucers. Lav some jam on one half and fold them over, and serve very hot with thick cream. 580. —GINGER A LA DUCHESSE. Cut some preserved ginger into inch squares, and three-quarter fill some custard glasses. Pour enough syrup over to cover, and pile on top a mixture of whipped white of egg and cream. 581. —SMALL RATSTN PUDDINGS. Chop three tablespoonfuls of suet, and mix together with one of sugar, six of flour, four of raisins, one egg, half a teasnoonful of baking powder, the same of chopned peal. Mix thoroughly with a little milk, and put into small buttered moulds, and boil them for half or three-quarters of an hour. Serve with a white sauce