482 Menus for Every Day of the Year. 629.—POETUGAISE SOUP. Prepare some French plums and leeks as below, mil them, and add to them sufficient clear stock. Boil up all together, and serve the soup very hot. French Plums for Garnish.—Put the plums (allowing two or three for each person) in a stewpan with cold water and a pinch of salt. Bring to the boil, take them up, rinse them in two or three waters, replace them in the pan with sufficient clear soup to cover them, and let them boil in it for half an hour, then use as described above. Leeks for Garnish.—Thoroughly cleanse and trim one or two nice leeks, tie them up, and put them into cold water with a pinch of salt. Bring to the boil, then wash them in several waters, put them in one and a half pints of clear stock, and boil them till tender. Then take them up on a plate, remove the string, split them in quarters lengthways, and cut them across in inch lengths.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 630.—SPRING FRUIT SOUP. Put lib. of rhubarb cut in short lengths into a saucepan with one and a. half pints of rather thin stock; add salt and pepper, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a pinch of ground ginger. Boil gently to a pulp and pass through a sieve. Put it back in the pan with a paste made of loz. of flour and water; add joz. of butter. Boil it up for ten minutes, and dilute with stock if too thick. 631.—ALMOND PUREE. Warm one pint of nice white stock. In another saucepan put half a pint of milk, loz. of finely _ ground almonds a blade of mace, some pepper and salt, and bring to the boil. Then thicnen with a very lit tip flour and add the stock, and warm up together. Remove the mace, add one gill of thick cream and the yolk of ona egg, stir all over the fire till hot, and serve quickly. 632.-POT AU FEU. Make a good clear stock with rump of beef and some veal bones. Skim it well, and add gradually some celery, a turnip, a leek, an onion, some herbs, and carrots. Boil it and skim it well, then let it simmer for some hours. Send the coup to table garnishea with some of the vegetables and round pieces of the crust of French roll. 633 —“ BORTSCH ” (SOUP) “A LA RUSSE " FOR TWELVE PERSONS. Four pounds of leg of beef, one duck three onions 1 one stuck with four cloves), half a cabbage, two bayleaves, 21b. of shin of veal, three carrots, four parsley roots, two beetroots, ana thirty crushed white peppercorns. Cover the bottom of the soup pot with onions and carrots cut in slices; add the beef and the veal, which must be cut in large dices, the peppercorns, bayleaves, parsley root, and a little thyme. Then add a large glass of white wine, cover the pot and put it on the fire, let all 000k until .he liquid in the pot has been reduced to a glaze, then add four quarts of water, the duck, the cabbage tied round with string, and some salt. When the whole begins to boil pull it off the fire, skim well, and then let the pot simmer for four hours. Take the duck