Recipes. 393 138.—POTATO CREAM. Whip half a pint of cream with the white of one egg. add 3oz. of potato flour and ioz. of gelatine. Stir over the fire till the latter is well melted and mixed, and the potato flour is sufficiently cooked. Add ten drops of vanilla esence, oil a mould, and orna- ment with pieces of cherries and preserved fruit. Pour in the cream and set it aside to cool. 139.—TIMBALE OF TURKEY AND TOMATO. Line a plain charlotte mould with aspic jelly. Ornament with carrots and turnips, cut out with a fancy cutter, and arranged in rows round the mould. Take 4oz. of pounded turkey. Put a large tomato through a sieve and add the pulp to the turkey, also two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, salt and pepper, and two gills of liquid aspic jelly. Beat together for a few minutes. Pour into the mould, and set on ice to cool. Serve very cold, with whipped aspic jelly round. 140.—EGGS WITH FRENCH SAUCE. Put a_ tablespoonful of flour, one small piece of mace, and 2oz. of butter in a saucepan and stir over the fire till thick: remove the mace. Pour over this a cupful of boiling milk, and simmer for a few minutes. Add another ounce of butter and one and half tablespoonfuls of parsley, which have been chopped fine. Have four hard-boiled eggs, cut them into halves, and lay on a dish, sprinkling a little pepper over them. Bring the sauce almost to boiling point. Pour over the eggs, and serve. 141.—STUFFED CUCUMBER. This can be hot or cold. If hot, boil the cucumber till tender, cut into lengths of 3 inches, remove seeds, cut these lengthways through the centre. Fill with a few fried shrimps, and ornament with coralline pepper. If cold, cut the cucumber through the centre in rounds, remove seeds, and fill with prawns or shrimps, and pour a good mayonnaise sauce over. 142— ROYAL WATER LILY SAVOURY. Toast and butter some rounds of bread, spread with anchovy paste, arrange some cooked heads of asparagus so that thev hang a little over the toasts; in the centre, place the sieved yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and round the eeg some stiffly whipped cream, salted to taste, and garnish round each piece of toast with nice watercress. 143.—PEAS A LA PARIS. Take 11b._ of shelled early French peas and toss them in a saucepan with a fair-sized piece of butter. Then allow them to simmer very gently over a slow fire. In the meantime wash a lettuce and break each leaf in half. Treat two or three of the inner leaves of a cabbage in the same way Add to the and simmer all together until the vegetables are done, adding a little salt and pepper and stirring from time to time to prevent them from burning at the bottom of the pan. When ready, serve on round croutons, sprinkling a very little curry Powder over the top, and dishing as hot a.s possible.