Recipes 433 352.—RHUBARB FRITTERS. Take some nice tender young rhubarb, cut into 2-inch lengths, roll the lengths into caster sugar, then put aside until the sugar has penetrated the rhubarb. Make a batter as follows : Two table- spoonfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of salad oil, one tablespoonful of milk, and one egg. Mix these very well together with a wooden spoon. Have some boiling lard, dip the pieces of rhubarb into the batter, and then fry until they are crisp; then roll each fritter in caster sugar, and serve immediately. 353.—LIQUEUR CREAM. Take one pint of cream and whisk it well. Add loz. of dissolved Gelatine and four drops of almond essence, and a small wineglass of noyeau. Whisk all well together till light, put into an oiled mould, and set to cool. 354.—POTATO CAKES. Boil some potatoes till quite soft, remove the inside. To every breakfastcupful put in a saucepan with the potato Joz. of butter and the yolk of an egg, salt and pepper. Stir over the fire till the paste is firm, add two tablespoonfuls of minced ham and one of cream, and mix all thoroughly. Make into small flat cakes, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat. 355.—AFRICAN PUDDING. Beat the white of one egg and the yolks of two, and mix gradu- ally in one and a half pints of new milk. Sift in a Jib. of caster sugar and ljoz. of flour. Make all into a smooth paste, and boil ten minutes. Stir till cool to prevent scum from rising. Have four penny sponge cakes, sprinkle them with ratafias, and sprinkle half a glass of sherry over all. Pour the custard over this, and cover with the stiffly whipped white of egg. 356.—FRUIT BATTER PUDDING. Make a good batter with two tablespoonfuls of flour, loz. of loaf sugar, one pint of milk, and three eggs, and a little butter. Pre- pare a well-buttered basin, put into it some fruit (strawberries, raspberries, plums, &c.), pour in the batter, tie in with a cloth, and boil for one and a quarter hours. 357. PARISIAN CORBET. 1. Dip the edges of some ratafia biscuits in a cement of syrup and White of egg. Line a high mould with them, the edges of the biscuits to be touching each other. When quite fixed and set. remove from the mould, and fill in with a. fruit salad and whipped cream. • 2. Have ready some small macaroons. Dip the edges of them in a cement made of white of egg and syrup. Line a mould with them, fitting them close together. When hard and set, take out of the mould and fill with a fruit salad and whipped cream. 358. -FLOATING ISLAND. Take 111b. ol cherries, pick and wash them, stow them in a syrup made with lib. of loaf sugar and half a pint of water and two table spoonfuls of brandy; then put on ice to become very cgld. Take a deep glass dish, and dish the cherries high, like a pyramid, and pour round the syrup. Then arrange in the syrup little blocks of F V