Recipes. 405 and pepper. Mix thoroughly, put into the mould, placing a piece of paper up round it, and steam for an hour. Serve hot with small cooked mushrooms. 203 —BOILED FOWL WITH OYSTERS. Prepare a chicken for boiling, and fill the inside with a force- meat of eight chopped oysters, two tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, one of cream, salt and pepper. Sew it up in the chicken, place in a jar, and boil in a saucepan of boiling water for nearly two hours. Remove the chicken, and make a thick white sauce with some cream, a little of the gravy from the chicken, salt and pepper, and four oysters cut up. Place the chicken on a dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve very hot. 204.—CURRIED FISH AND LOBSTER PUDDING. One tin of lobster, lib. of cooked fish of almost any kind, half a gill of shrimps, lib. of breadcrumbs, a dessertspoonful ot lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, one dessertspoonful of Marshall’s curry powder, pepper and salt, two eggs, loz. of butter. Chop the lobster, flake the fish, and put all the given ingredients into a oasin, melt the butter, beat up the eggs, and add to the dry ingre- dients. Mix wellt and place in a greased plain charlotte tin or cake tin, cover with a greased paper, and steam one hour. Turn on to a hot dish, and garnish the top prettily with cut slices of a?d .Parsley. Pour the sauce round, and arrange little tufts r*4i01Pr rlpe roixxLcI the edge of the disli, scattered in'turn with a little Marshall s coralline pepper, parsley, and hard-boiled yolk of egg. Sauce.—One ounce of butter, loz. of cornflour, three-quarters of a pint or milk, one teaspoonful of curry powder, salt and pepper to taste, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Make as an ordinary white sauce, then add the curry, and cook five minutes. 205.—SAVOURY TRIFLE. 1. The remains of cold meat or game sliced, and flavoured by warming up in a pan with herbs, onion, salt, pepper, and tomato Ketchup, bpread a little mustard on a round of toast, then mince the meat finely and spread it thickly over. Sprinkle with cheese and serve very hot. ,3; Cut a sJjce of bread 6 inches across and 3 inches deep, and ?;°;:ow the centre. Fry it a nice brown and drain it on a Gnlu, ia Vr jb- shred it, and fill the centre, cover with a nnely chopped salad, and pour mayonnaise sauce over all. 206.—APPLE SALAD. Mince some apples and celery, peel and halve some walnuts and orano-p %oP1 j"01'!' nu.ts' sbpd dandelion, and small cubes of vWpnr ? ; dressmg is made of oil, orange juice, white wine, radishes to taste mustard- 3alt and PePPer. Beetroot o^ 207.—OYSTER BASKETS. 9l(jppV,8pme-ir°tn^3 of f.re.1h brown bread U inches deep and baskets amld1nrh° nW 'll11 l 'as de.eP as Possible to make handles with thick parsley stalks. Allow four S0Vnap'L yS‘ep^pt0 eaC> Lay,.,tbem a dish and cover with oil, vinegar, pepper, and very little salt, leaving them in it for