428 Menus fnr Every Day of the Year and finely chopped—or the kernels of the fruit—and a little grated lemon rind. Bub all the mixture through a sieve, and fill whites with it. Join the halves together, uniting them with a little liquid aspic jelly. In the meantime prepare a sam apricot jam, a little strained lemon juice, half a wineglass f sherry or Madeira, and a pinch of gelatine, previously soaked in a drop or two of water. Mix well over the fire, then set on one side to cool. When cool, place the eggs on slices of fresh brioche or Madeira cake, pour the sauce over the top, and serve when perfectly cold. 321.—TAPIOCA SNOW. Put three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in a saucepan with loz. of butter and one pint of milk. Stir well, and let it boil till trans- parent. Whip the yolks of two eggs and put them into it, and mix all thoroughly, adding sugar to taste. Whip the whites til! quite stiff, adding a pinch of salt. Arrange the mixture in the centre of a dish. Put the white of egg roughly over it, and serve cold. 322.—BICE CBEAM AND PBUNES. Boil 4oz of rice in a pint of milk till quite iender. When done add a small sheet of Marshall’s gelatine, one teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and two gills of cream which have been whipped with the white of one egg. Stir all over the fire for two minutes; it inns! not boil. Turn into little oiled moulds which have a stoned stewed prune at the bottom of each, and set to cool. Serve in a dish with stowed prunes round. 323.—FBUIT SALAD. Take lib. of sugar and half a pint of water; bring to the boil. Have ready any ripe fruit in season, pour boiling svrup over, and sprinkle witlr loz. of almonds and pistachio nuts finely chopped. Mix the salad lightly, and when cold add two glassfuls of liqueur and serve. Another Way.—Eemains of a tin of pineapple. Take the juice, and if not enough, boil with some sugar and water to make a thin syrup. Use a mixture of fruits, and if they are cooked, let the syrup cool before using; if uncooked, pour hot syrup over, nd when cold two glasses of liqueur. 324.—CBEPES A LA FBANCAISE. Beat up three whole eggs and one yolk of egg to a froth. Then add half a pint of cream and a tablespoouful and a half of orange flower water, with a spoonful of caster sugar. Continue heating for five minutes. Then pour a little into three tablespoonfuls of flour until a smooth hatter is made. Add this to the rest of the cream and eggs, and set on one side for three hours When the pancakes are required, grease a frying pan, pour in a little fresh butter or clarified fat which has been melted in a saucepan, and sufficient of the hatter to cover the bottom. Loosen the edges as they set. and when ready toss and brown on the other side. Hove ready some stewed cranberries, made very hot, enclose a spoonful in the centre of each pancake, roll, and keep hot until all the hatter has been used up