Recipes. 401 183.—KIDNEY A LA HANOVER Cut a beef kidney into small finger lengths and also nut some ham mto small dice. Place these in a pan into loz of boi?me outter, one bayleaf, some thyme, and parsley, and fry together for ten minutes Strain off most of the gravy and add six chonned mushrooms to the pan with the kidney Fry for two mfnutes and Son top a nnS °f mashed P°tatoes- flace a few sippetB ol 184.—BRAISED LEEKS AND POACHED EGGS. 1 Take some perfectly fresh young leeks and trim off the tops them .u„,„uEulil| Hum sni, ana tie six or eight ifmMt118 an,d Put them into a saucepan to blanch Take'“uD stoelfto oo6m Vv.t0 a st,ewpan with enough chicken, veal, or rabbit tilTtender° wto'cbTv'i,P ale a+ cover ?,n tbe, pa". and let them cook 0ie TV,in tv will take two or three hours, according to their 1S5.—RUSSIAN STEAKS. ol.Vn^t leuts ; Pne pound °f rump steak, a very little chopped ?nl it’, a Pepper to taste, parsley, butter, gravy Method • Put the steak through the mincing machine add the shallot onli and pepper. Make into little cakes and fry in butter or grill over fer"« til"™ "" ™'h ”“‘1: 186. POTATO PASTY. with0ltlmmnily llbf u potato,es anc] put them through a sieve Mix 55RSS SSRyBrJWi: nen f°yster8, and lay them in the dish, cover with Die potato tegminu^3.t'e8,gn8 f°r the top' and bake « a goodoient .187- lobster au gratin. together without discolouring a :|lb. of fine flour and a JI1 &firasf bo^d S witP witjr this one pint of miik whtoh ' nrst boiled with a blado of mace and a shallot tor sanchov’y Essence a°dust°oFcor »?-bHter >:pawn’ a dessertspoonful of e y essence, a oust 01 com (line pepper, a oinch nf qnlt onfl •• li tammy andauseSasr be'toJ'^T T "ri" U b7'?' Wrine through tcnolrori I„t“* use as below. lake the meat from a lar<>-e fresh I v Smd saucreaonn , Arrange sFme of the •served then place a Iitef^r in whmh the lobster is to bo llayer of the prepared s niee ol tl1Ce,d Iobsler on this and spread a ot me prepared sauce on the top. Continue the layers of fish r> d . of ias for