422 Mentis for Every Day 0/ the Year. which has been melted in one gill of warm milk and let cool. Pound six ratafias into crumbs, whisk all thoroughly tog' ' and pour into a mould which has been wet, and set on ice to cool. Very great care is required in the mixing. 288.—APPLE RUSSE. Line round a mould with sponge fingers. Cut lib. of apples into small pieces, including the peel. Stew in half a pint of water till tender. Add half the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Pass all through a sieve, and add loz. of gelatine which has been melted with ilb. of red currant jelly. Mix all very thoroughly, and pour into the mould. The sponge fingers should ah be touching. When set, turn out, and serve with whipped cream on top. Raw bananas can also be used. 289.—LITTLE GINGER SPONGES. Dissolve ioz. of gelatine in half a pint of water, and add two stiffly beaten whites of eggs, loz. of sugar, and 2oz. of crystallised ginger. Beat all to a stiff froth. Quarter fill some little mould; with a xilain lemon jelly. When the jelly is firm add the same depth of the above mixture, then another layer of jelly, and finish with the sponge. Turn out and garnish with minced candied ginger and whipped cream. 290.—COLD LEMON SOUFFLE OR ORANGE. Squeeze the juice of four lemons into four yolks of best eggs and two tablespoonfuls of caster sugar (add more it hseo Whisk well together until quite frothy, then add four or five sheets of Marshall gelatine, according to the weather. Alter melting it add half a gill of cream, and put aside till nearly set. Then well whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add halt a gill of cream, then incorporate with the other mixture. \\ i.en set, put a band of kitchen paper round a souffle dish ana pour the mixture in; make it as high as possible. Then decorate top with whipped cream, coloured pink. Remove paper betore sending t0 table' 291.—ALBERT PUDDING. Beat ’lb. of butter to a cream, add lib. of crushed loaf sugar, 1.1b. of flour, lib. of chopped raisins, the juice of a lemon, some candied peel cut very fine. Mix all well together. Beat six eggs, volks and whites separately. Mix altogether, put mio a mould, and boil for three and a half hours. Serve with wine sauce. 292 —HARROW PUDDING. Beat up the yolks of three eggs and the white of one egg. Add gradually one and a half pints of milk Mix m very carefmiy four tnblespoonfuls of fine ground rice, 2oz. of powdered sup»r. and the grated rind ol one lemon Boil over a slow nre until t o rice is cooked, stirring constantly. Arrange some ratafias at the bottom ol a shallow dish. Pour the cream through a neve^on to the ratafias and set to cool. Serve with finely powdered cinnamon dusted over it. , ,, , . TT nmn, 293.—BABA AU RHUM. Three-quarters of a pound of sifted flour,a pinch of salt and rather more than loz. of yeast, 2oz. of castei sugartoz.ofbutcr. five eggs, half a gill of cream, and one and a half gills ot mils.