391 Recipes. 128.—CALF’S LIVER WITH FRENCH BEANS. Cut Hb. of calf’s liver in little dice, season them with coral- line pepper and salt; cut up and season two onions in a similar way, then melt 2oz. of butter in a saute pan, and add to it a sprig of chopped thyme and bayleaf, and fry the onions in it for about fifteen minutes. Drain off the fat into another pan, and mix the onions with four tablespoonfuls o.f good brown sauce in a stewpan, and let this simmer for about ten minutes; then put the liver into the pan containing the fat, and fry it for four or five minutes, and mix it with tne onions and brown sauce, taking care that the latter does not boil afler the liver is mixed wiin it. Cut some .trench beans in lengths of about lin., boil them, then drain them when cooked. Mix with them a pat of butter and a few drops of lemon juice, and dish them up so as to form a border, and put inside this the liver prepared as above. This is a nice dish for an entree for dinner or luncheon, or for a second-course dish in place of game.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 129.—FISHERMAN’S PIE. Mince finely lib. of cooked meat. ' Take a clean piedish, and put a layer of mashed potatoes in the bottom and round the sides. Slice thinly, and fry an onion; drain well, and lay the slices round the dish on the potato. Free two large tomatoes from their seeds and mix the pulp with the minced meat, and fill the dish with the mixture, add plenty of salt and a little pepper. Pour some good gravy over to moisten all. Cover with mashed potatoes, and bake in a good oven for one hour. The top can be ornamented by forcing out the potato in various shapes, and brushing it over with the yolk of an egg. 130.—PLOVERS’ EGGS A LA JEUNE. Fry some croutons of bread in hot butter (these should be shaped as nearly as possible like small eggcups), place in each a hot hard-boiled plover’s egg, and pour over them the following sauc- ; Three tablespoonfuls of rich brown sauce, one sliced truffle or mushroom, chopped shallot, one teaspoonful of caster sugar, coral line pepper and salt to taste, half a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and a little thyme. Boil all together, stirring well, then add lloz. ot butter, two tablespoonfuls of double cream, and lastly one tea- spoonful of lemon juice. Strain, and serve very hot. 131.—FISH PIE. lake some cooked fish cod, brill, or haddock—and half fill a piedish. Then put a layer of tomatoes and mushooms or a thin layer of cooked celery. Fill the piedish with fish as before. Cover the top with breadcrumbs and ornament with tomatoes, and bake half an hour. 132.—TOMATO CASSEROLE. Slice three nice ripe tomatoes, and place them at the bottom ol a casserole dish. Finely shred a shallot, any odd scraps of chicken, ham, or tongue, and some finely chopped parsley, placo a good layer of this on the tomato, and season highly with pepper and salt Place a cover on the dish, and stand in a deep baking dish with a little water in a hot oven for twenty minutes, then break four fresh eggs carefully on the top, and some finely chopped trutlle. 1 lace m the oven till eggs are set. Have ready some little