Recipes. 4^9 ■stoned and halved. When the omelet is ready slip it on a dish, double ft over, and pour the hot sauce round it. Sprinkle the top with caster sugar. 557.—CHARTREUSE OF FRUIT. Take a tin of peaches or any other fruit and boil with a quarter of a pint of water and two glasses of wine, and sugar to taste Strain the syrup and put the fruit to cool. Add twelve sheets of gelatine to the syrup, steeped in a little water, and boil al together and clear. Flave two moulds, one larger than the other. Put somo jelly into the larger mould and sot it. Put some Iruit in a Pattern on this iells-, and pour carefully some more telly over them, and set it Place the small mould on this jelly, and exactly in the centre, and fill in the sides with fruit and jelly, and put to cool Prepare some whipped cream containing liqueur, and when stiff remove the smaller mould, fill the space with cream, and turn out the mould, and serve. 558.—ROYAL PUDDTNG. Pick over and well wash a teacupful of pearl tapioca. Put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of boiling water. Let it cook till transparent, which will take 'about an hour, stir it. frequently. Then add half a tumbler of Marshall’s fruit syrups, a tablespoonful of Marshall’s Silver Rays rum, a little salt, and a >lb. of loaf sugar, a few drops of Marshall’s carmine Pour it on to a glass dish, and let it stand on ice. Serve with cream and sugar.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 559.—APPLE CAKE. Line a fleur ring with a nice short paste, as below. Line it with a buttered paper, fill it with rice, cook it in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Then remove the rice and pajier, and return it to the oven till it is thoroughly crisp and dry, and place inside it the following mixture : Put lib. of peeled and sliced apples into a stewpan with loz. of butter, a Jib. of sugar, 2oz. of picked and stoned raisins and currants, one or two cloves, a little ground cinnamon, and a wineglassful of sherry. Stir altogether until the apples are tender, and when cool luour them into the ring. Put on the top a layer of breadcrumbs that have been mixed with the same quantity of almonds, chopped, and loz. of good butter that has been warmed. Bake in the oven for half an hour, remove from the ring, and serve as a sweet. This cake is nice with any jam sauce, such as apricot, which should be handed in a sauceboat. Short Paste. - Take a lib. of fine flour and 2cz. of butter. Rub together till smooth, add a pinch of salt and one whole egg. Mix with cold water to a stiff paste, roll out with flour. 560 -CHERRY CHARLOTTE. Line a mould with thin slices of buttered bread Make a mixture of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a pint of milk. Jib. of cherries, some grated macaroons, the juice of half a lemon, a little grated nutmeg. Fill the mould, let it stand for half an hour. Pour over it one glass of sherry or brandy. Cover with a cloth, and bake (or bojl) one hour-