Menus for Every Day of the Year. 3^4 144.—MEXICAN BEEF. Take 211b. of a nice piece of thick rump steak and make deep cuts 2 inches apart and half through the steak. In these cut* stuff the following mixture : One single blade of celery, a pinch of thyme, some breadcrumbs, four large mushrooms. Chop ail very small, mix and bind with good stock or Liebig. Boll the steak and tie it, and stew it in a buttered pan for three hours. Serve with grilled mushrooms. 145.—MACARONI AND TOMATOES. Cook 4cz. of macaroni in milk for fifteen minutes. Stir .n loz. of butter while hot. Let it get cold, and then mu with it one well-beaten egg, salt, and two tomatoes which have been put through a sieve. Boil for three-quarters of an hour in a buttered mould. Serve with tomato sauce. Put three tomatoes in a pan with 2oz. of butter, a quarter of a pint of gravy, one teaspoonful of flour, the juice of half a lemon, and sa.t Simmer on the side of the stove for twenty minutes. Bub through a tammy and use. 146.—MINCED KIDNEYS IN CASSEROLE. Prepare four kidneys for cooking and mince them, not too finely. Fry them with a little chopped parsley and some slices of onion, but only a very little onion, and some salt. \\ hen almost done, put the kidney into small earthenware cases, aad a few drops of Worcester sauce to each. Put them in the oven finish cooking by baking, keeping the kidneys moist. Serve >ery hot, with some scrambled egg on top. 147.—BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. Cut some slices of cold beef and fry them, adding pepper_ and salt Boil a cabbage and four large potatoes. Chop them finely and mix well together and fry them, with pepper and salt, stir- ring continually. When sufficiently done, sprinkle some vinegar over and place in the centre of a dish; arrange the slices ot meat neatly round it. 148.—VEAL CUTLETS WITH VEGETABLES. Place required number of veal cutlets in an earthenware cas- serole, with a blade of mace, some thyme, a bayleaf two onions, a large carrot cut in slices, and a head of celery cui into 4-mch lengths, some salt. Cover all with some fairly good stock, and simmer for two hours. Serve in the casserole. 146.- CHICKEN AND MUSHROOMS IN CASSEROLE. Flatten the breast bone of a spring chicken with a rolling pm. taking care not to break the skin Dredge it with .^°"r .an,‘ in a fireproof earthenware casserole in butter until it i. browned all over. Then drain off the butter, and lay lib. of rump steak and the same quantity of veal, cut m slices over the top Add a blade of mace, a few cloves peppercorns, a sliced onion a bouquet of herbs, and a tablespoon fill of finely imnccd carrots. Pour in sufficient water to cover the chicken.. Place the cover of the casserole on the top, and stew the chicken until tender Ti en remove it and continue stewing the meat until 'bogravyis rich and well flavoured. Then strain it-reserving the meat for