494 Menus for Every Day of the Year. potatoes, a gill o{ milk, a spoonful of thick cream, salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. Stir regularly until the sauce is perfectly smooth, and then rub through a coarse sieve. Serve with the wild duck. 676.—CUTLETS MARGUERITE. Cook six cutlets in a saute pan and press them between two dishes till cold. Mask one side with the liver stuffing, and put in the oven to warm. Brush them over with glaze, and serve on a circle of spinach with a macedoine of vegetables in the centre. Stuffing.—Fry together lib. of calf’s liver, one carrot, one onion, a bayleaf, six peppercorns, and a small stick of celery. When all quite cooked, pound in a mortar, then pass through a sieve, and use. 677.—CALF’S HEAD (MAITRE DHOTEL* Take remains of calf’s head, and cut into nice slices and warm in a small pan, the slices just covered with white wine. Prepare following sauce of Mrs. A. B. Marshall's: 2cz. batter, 2oz. flour lightly fried, mix with half a pint of white stock, stir till it boils, add a gili of cream, a few fresh white mushrooms, their peels and stalks. Cook for ten minutes, add a pinch of salt, tanning, add tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Lav the slices of calf’s head neatly in a dish and pour the hot sauce over them, and serve very hot. The remains of the wine can be used up in stock. 678.—ASPIC OF TONGUE. Make a good aspic and line a shallow mould with it. Arrange some slices of tomato round the mould. Let it set. Have four well cooked sheeps’ tongues. Cut them into dice, mix with the remainder of aspic. Fill the mould and set to cool. Serve with tomatoes. 679.—CHICKEN CREAMS, OR CREAM OF GUINEA FOWL. Remains of chicken put through a sieve, to Jib. put three eggs and loz. of butter and a little salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly to a smooth paste, add two tablespoonfuls of cream whipped up. Put into little buttered moulds and poach in thin stock for over fifteen minutes. Serve hot with grilled mushrooms. 680.—SHEEP S TONGUES IN ASPIC. Rub each sheep’s tongue with a tablespoonful of salt, a tea- spoonful of brown sugar, and some powdered pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, and leave all night. Then rinse them, and boil in stock if possible, or in water, with a ham bone and some turnip and celery, until the skin will come off (about three hours). Let them cool, cut them through lengthways, and arrange them in a hollow mould which has been lined with aspic jelly. Toss some mustard and cress round the tongues, and fill in with the aspic, and set to cool. Serve with the centre of the mould filled with salad. 681—NAARTJEES SAUCE. Clean the giblets of the wild duck, and place in a stewpan with water and seasoning, and stew gently. Then pare off the