SAVOURIES 746.—HADDOCK SAVOURIES. Take the remains of some cooked dried haddock and pound in a mortar with the following amounts to every four tablespoonfuls of haddock : Two hard-boiled eggs, one olive or twelve large capers, two tablespoonfuls of cream, salt and pepper to taste, one tablespoonful of cooked ham. Butter some rounds of fresh white bread, pile the paste roughly on it, bringing it to a point, and serve with some mustard and cress. 747.—CAPER CUSTARDS. Put into a small saucepan half a gill of cream, one gill of milk, 20Z. of grated Parmesan cheese, and loz. of chopped capers. Warm and mix all together thoroughly. Beat two eggs to a froth, add to the mixture. Have a frying pan ready with a little melted butter in it, and drop in spoonfuls of the mixture as soon as it is firm. Serve on small croutes very hot. Olives can be used in the same way. 748.—SAVOURY CUSTARDS. Two eggs, one gill of good stock, salt and pepper to taste. Make the custard in the usual way, and steam in little moulds till set. 749.—COD ROE TOAST. Tie the cod roe in buttered muslin and place in warm water, cooking until tender. Remove the muslin and skin the roe care- fully, cut into neat rounds 1-inch thick, and fry carefully in butter. Prepare a round of toast somewhat larger than the roe. lay a slice of fried tomato on it, and then the fried roe, and serve very hot. 750.—NOT CANAPES. Cut some thin slices of German black bread and butter Beat up a cream cheese with the kernels of three or four Brazil nuts (finely chopped), a spoonful of grated Cheddar or Gruvere cheese, a dessertspoonful of minced celery, a few grains of cayenne, salt, and sufficient cream to make the cheese soft enough to spread. Enclose the cheese between the slices of black bread, cover, and serve. 751 .—DEVILLED BISCUITS. Take some water biscuits and spread on them a mixture of cheese and made mustard, and grill them. Serve with grated cheese over them. 752.—CHEESE CUSTARDS. Place in a saucepan one gill of milk and one of cream, the yolks of two eggs, and salt and pepper. Whisk until almost boiling, stir in 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Remove from the fire, add one gill of milk in which loz. of gelatine has been dissolved. Beat all well. Pour into small prepared moulds and set to cool.