Menus for Every Day of the Year. 520 834.—ANCH0VY CKOUTEH Take some cheese pastry and stamp out as many rounds a- required, and bake them. Rub the yolks of two hard-boiled eye- through the sieve, add a little cheese (grated I, a little of Mar- shall’s curry powder, a small piece of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Make it very hot, pile it on the cheese biscuits, and put filleted anchovies across. Sprinkle a little of Marshall’s coralline pepper over, and serve very hot. 835.—CHEESE TRIFLES. Cook some celery or celeriac until tender. Cut the best part ol it into I-inch pieces, and mix with some very stiffly whipped cream. Pile in a pyramid on rounds of white bread and butter, and sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese over all, or the bread may be spread with a paste of butter and Parmesan cheese. 836.—AIGRETTES OF MUSHROOM. Put half a pint of water and loz. of butter into a pan and let it boil, shake in 3oz. of flour, and beat it well. Drop in the yolk of one egg and the whites of two and beat all together. Add 2oz. of finely chopped mushrooms and blend with the mixture. Drop a dessertspoonful at a time into boiling fat, and fry. Serve as free from grease as possible. 837.—STUFFED EGGS. Take three hard-boiled eggs and cut them lengthways in half. Remove the yolks, and make a paste in a mortar of the yolks, two tablespoonfuls of pounded chicken moistened with two teaspoon- fuls of Tobasco sauce, and twelve pounded capers. Fill the whites with this mixture piled up. and dish on a bed of salad. 838.—HERRING ROE AND CAPER BALLS. Ingredients: Four herring roes, one teaspoonful chopped capers, seasoning to taste, egg and breadcrumb. Method: Take four fresh herrings with soft roes, cook them, then, when cold, take out the roes, and divide them, lay on each half a little chopped caper and season with salt and cayenne, roll up. then dip each roll into well beaten egg and freshly made breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat a nice golden colour, and serve very hot garnished with fried parsley. 839.—SAVOURY SANDWICHES. Prepare two thin slices of buttered toast, make a thick paste of corned beef, cream, and chutney. Lay it on one piece of toast, sprinkling a little pepper and salt over; lay on the second piece, and toast, and serve very hot. 840.—CHEESE SANDWICHES. Prepare some thin slices of brown bread. Grate an ounce of Parmesan cheese with the same of Cheddar, mix with the pounded yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and enough butter to make a firm paste. Spread this thickly on the brown bread and cover with a cTisp lettuce leaf. Place another slice of bread on top Cut into 2-inch squares and serve with lettuce. 841.—SHRIMP TRIPLES. Cut sonic small thin rounds of brown bread, and butter them with a paste of one-third butter and two-thirds pounded shrimps,