Menus for Every Day of the Year. 502 over with aspic jelly, and when this is quite set cut out neatly and dish up on a border of rice, with a little rice block for the centre to rest the quails against. Garnish between each half bird with chopped aspic, place a hatelet Bkewer in the centre of rice block, and serve.— Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 715.—FILLETS OF MUTTON A LA CHARLTON. Take a loin of mutton, bone and trim it, and roll it up, and tie it with a string in the form of a galantine, and place it in buttered stewpan. Sprinke all over with finely chopped onion, bayleaf, thyme, parsley, and a little mignonette pepper, and fr quickly with the pan covered for about fifteen minutes. Then pour into the pan two tablespoonfuls of mushroom catsup and about half a pint of tomato pulp, adding a little more if needed during the cooking. Let this simmer gently on the side of thr stove or in the oven for about one and a quarter hours, take up. and press till cold. Then dip into flour a whole beaten-up ra w egg, and then into freshly made white breadcrumbs, ana fry ■ pretty golden colour in clean boiling fat for about five minutes. Dish up, and serve with tomato sauce round. Any of the remains from cooking the fillet can be put into the stock for making brown sauce.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 716.—SALAD FOR ROAST HARE. Sweet Indian chutney, finely minced and mixed with a :evr spoonfuls of claret, raisins, and chopped walnuts. This is poured over freshly washed and shredded lettuce, tossed well, and deco- rated with flaked hard-boiled egg. 717.—PIGEONS A L’AMERICAINE. Take the breast fillets from the pigeons. Season them with a little coralline pepper, salt, a very little chopped eschalot, fresii mushrooms, and parsley. Put about an ounce and a half of butter in a saute pan, lightly saute the fillets on both sides, then put to press until cool. Trim the fillets if necessary, and then mask them over thinly with farce of pounded pieces of pigeon and mush- room, game or poultry livers, and smooth it with a warm kmte. Then dip the fillets in well-beaten whole egg and breadcrumb. Do this twice, and when ready fry them in clarified butter till a pretty golden colour. Allow one to each person. Dish on a border of potato with a puree of spinach in the centre, and serve American sauce round the base. Partridge and grouse may bo served in the same way.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 718.—TOMATO SOUFFLE. Melt in a stewpan loz. of butter and add to it floz. of flour. Fry slightly, and add half a pint of tomato puree: stir the mixture until it has boiled well. Allow it to cool, then beat in three yolks of eggs and loz. of Parmesan cheese. Whip the whites of three eggs very stiffly, and add lightly to the mixture: season with pepper and salt. Have ready a pan of - lean fat. and when it is hot drop the souffle mixture into it in small spoonfuls, f ry tor three minutes, and dish the souffles on lacc paper. Garnish with tried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce.