459 Recipes. 501.—CHEERY BASKETS. Make or buy some small queen cakes, and cut a small piece of the top off each. Hollow out the centre, and fill it with cooked cherries which have been stoned, add a few drops of any liqueur, replace the lid, make a handle of angelica, and put a little whipped cream under one side of the lid to tilt it' a little. 502.—FIG PUDDING. Maie a stiff mixture with lib. of figs cut small, ilb. of suet chopped fine, a cup of breadcrumbs, two eggs well beaten, one cup of flour, and some milk. When thoroughly mixed place in a well-buttered basin and boil for two hours. Serve with fig sauce. 503.—ORANGE OMELET OR RHUBARB OMELET. Orange omelet is as easy to make with tangerines as with ordinary oranges. About two-thirds as many will, however, be required, even if the largest ones are used, the juice being pressed out and strained before stirring it into the beaten yolks, and adding the grated rind with a little sugar. The whites should be whisked to a froth separately and stirred m at the last moment, while a whole orange sliced and heated in its sweetened juice flavoured with a little orange brandy should be laid on the omelet when ready before it is folded over. 504. —SWEET MACARONI. Boil one quart of milk, and drop into it a good teacupful of macaroni, some salt, and half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Boil it gently for ten minutes, add the beaten yolk of one egg and half a gill of cream, and continue boiling gently for fifteen minutes. Pour it into a mould and let it cool. Serve cold with a thick fruit sauce. 505. —CREAM TARTLETS. Make a good paste of the yolks of two eggs and the white of one egg, loz. of butter, and a tablespoonful of sugar, some flour to thicken, and a pinch of salt. Line some little tins, and bake the pastry. Serve with stewed cherries in the centre and covered with whipped cream. 506. —RUSSIAN CREAM. Beat the whites of three eggs until stiff; add two tablespoonfuls of caster sugar, two of raspberry jelly, two of rod currant jelly. Beat these all together until so stiff that a silver spoon will stand up in it. Serve very cold in a glass dish. 507. —APPLE CUSTARD. Make an apple tart; cut away the pastry from the centre. Melt until quite thin four tablespoonfuls of golden syrup, and pour over the apples through the hole in the centre. Bake a cusiard, and flavour with vanilla. Pour into the centre, and ornament with cherries. 508.—VOL AU VENT OF PEARS OR PRUNES. Ingredients: Puff paste, four good-sized stewing pears, cream flavouring to taste. Method: Put into a stewpan four good-sized pears, with the rind of a lemon and enough water to cover, and a few lumps of sugar according to taste. Stew until they are a