Menus for Every Day of the Year. 480 618.—CHARLOTTE OF CHESTNUTS. Shell a pint of chestnuts, and boil till tender. Drain them, and mash with a cupful of cream. Work in caster sugar to taste. Add half a cupful of well-whipped cream, and fill the Charlotte mould. 619.—HOLLOW BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Make a bread and butter pudding in the ordinary way. When cooked, cut a hollow with a sharp knife in the centre, and fill with hot stewed prunes or any fruit, and serve hot. 620.—ORANGE CUSTARD FRITTERS. Mix together over the fire for about twenty minutes Jib. of flour, two whole eggs and the yolk of a third, and one pint of milk. When the custard is smooth, take it off the fire, and add loz. of grated orange peel, loz. of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, and a little salt. Mix well and let cool. When cold, cut the custard into nice-sized pieces, dip them in egg and breadcrumb, and fry in very hot fat. Sprinkle them with sugar and pile high in a dish, ornamenting it with slices of raw orange. 621.—PLUM JELLY. Stew ljlb. of plums in a very little sugar and water, and when tender rub through a sieve and add a squeeze of lemon juice. Measure out one pint of the pulp and juice, and add loz. of gelatine previously dissolved in a gill of water. Pour into a border mould, and serve with a centre of stiffly whipped cream 622.—MELON CREAM. Prepare some Genoese cake mixture, pour it into two halves of a melon mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When reaoy. turn out and set aside to cool, then scoop out the centres, ana fill with stiffly beaten cream sw'eetened with caster sugar pid flavoured with three tablespoonfuls of chopped candied me;on. Join the two halves together, and mask with icing slightly coloured a pale yellow and flavoured with maraschino. 623.—CHOCOLATE A L’ALEXANDRA. Grate 3oz. of chocolate, and mix with one pint of milk and loz. of gelatine, and one pint of strawberry jam melted to the consistency of milk. Fresh fruit is best in season, rout all into a jug and stand in a saucepan of cold water ana bon the water for fifteen minutes. Then stir the cream every few minutes all cool. Add half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, mix, and pour into a mould. Serve whipped cream on top. 624.—BRANDY CHERRY TARTLETS. Make some little tarts of puff pastry, and fill with rhemes which have soaked for some hours in brandy. Cook twelve chest- nuts and rub through a sieve, and make a thick cream with 1 em and two gills of cream and a few drops of vanilla essence. 1-orce this through a plain pipe over the cherries, and serve very cold. 625.—DAMSON OR RASPBERRY SPONGE. Soak loz. of gelatine in one pint of water; add Jib. of sugar and n’liiino r\f f\m ppps. and 1110 JU1CP minutes. Set one pint of raspberry juice, the whites of two eggs, and the juice of two lemons. Whisk in a mould to cool all thoroughly for twenty