Recipes. 413 243. —TOMATOES WITH LIVER. Take lib. of tomatoes and pass them through a hair sieve, add one tea-spoonful of Bovril, 3oz. of breadcrumbs, and loz. of butter. Stir all together over the fire until a nice consistency. Cut 1.1b. ot calf's liver into thick slices and saute them quickly, line a buttered gratin dish with the prepared tomato, put in the slices of liver, add a few good spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce, cover it with the remainder of the tomato, sprinkle brown crumbs over, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 244. —TURBOT A LA SHIRLEY. Have a nice piece of fresh fisli and place it in a dish, remove the skin and bone, and mash the fish with a fork. Then add half the quantity of potatoes, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of vinegar, a good dust of coralline pepper and salt to taste, and lastly two well-beaten eggs. Grease a mould and fill it with the mixture, then steam it for three-quarters of an hour. Turn it out, and serve with anchovy or lobster sauce poured round. 245.—KIDNEY TOAST. Prepare four mutton kidneys, and cut each into small pieces. Pry them for five minutes in a pan with a little fat and six mush- rooms, and then drain them thoroughly. Make six rounds of toast. Put some kidney on each, and salt and pepper. Cover with a fried mushroom, and serve very hot. 246.—SOUFFLE A LA DOROTHY. Cut the tops off six tomatoes and remove the insides without breaking the outer parts. Pass through a sieve 2oz. of cooked chicken, the same of lean ham, adding the insides of three of the tomatoes, with salt and pepper to taste. Pound it well in the mortar, stir in the yolks of two eggs, and one tablespoonful of milk or cream. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix lightly with the other ingredients, put into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and fill the tomatoes. Bake in a moderate oven on a buttered baking tin for a quarter of an hour. Serve as quickly as possible. 247.—SHRIMPS AU PARMESAN. Take a good slice of toast, buttered, place on a baking tin, and scatter thickly with picked shrimps. Place some pieces of butter on top, and sprinkle well over with grated Parmesan cheese. Bake in a sharp oven for five minutes, take out, and cut in finger lengths or squares, and serve very hot. 248.—MACARONI CHEESE. Boil some macaroni with a. little salt and a small piece of mutton fat. When cooked strain from water and remove fat, put macaroni in a clean saucepan, add 2oz. of cheese, a teaspoonful of made mustard, pepper and salt, and enough cream to make a nice creamy mixture. Cook on the side of stove for ten minutes, stir carefully, put in a deep dish, sprinkle grated cheese over it. and put pieces of butter on top. Put in a hot oven till a golden brown. Serve very hot. 249.—CURRIED VEGETABLES. Take four onions, cut them up into small dice shapes, nut them into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry together