458 Menus for Every Day of the Year 494. —BRANDY PUDDING. Line a mould with various dried fruits. Fill it with lay<-r;- of French roll and sponge cake, placing dried fruit- (sack as cherries, raisins, ginger) amongst it. Pour a glass of good brandy over and let it soak. Fill in with a good custard, and hake for over an hour. 495. —SPANISH SOUFFLE. Boil lloz. of breadcrumbs in 2oz. of butter till the crumbs are beginning to colour, then add half a pint of boiling milk to loz. of sugar, and let it boil till the mixture becomes thick. Take it off the fire and let it cool, add the yolks of three eggs, and turn until mixed thoroughly. Beat up the whites of the three eggs till very stiff, and add to the rest. Pour into a buttered mould, and bake for half an hour. Serve with a sweet sauce. 496.—CHERRY CREAM. Dissolve loz. of Marshall’s gelatine in a pint of. milk. _ adding jib. of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of the syrup in which the cherries were cooked, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, a few drops of carmine, and -lib. of cooked, stoned cherries. Stir until beginning to set, and then add a quarter of a pint of stiffly whipped cream. Pour it into a mould, and when it is set turn out the cream and garnish with little roses of cream and sprigs of maidenhair fern. 497.—STRAWBERRY BATTER PUDDING. Make a batter with half a pint of milk, the yolks of three eggs, and 3oz. of flour; add the beaten whites last. Remove the stalks from 11b. of strawberries, add the fruit to the batter with a little sugar. Butter a dish well, pour in the batter, and bake in the oven. Serve as soon as it is ready. 498.—RASPBERRY CREAM. Melt lib. jar of raspberry jelly, add it to half a pint of cream and loz. of gelatine which has been melted in one pint of milk. Strain all this, add sugar to taste and a glass of any liqueur. Pour into a mould, and set on ice to cool. 499.—PEACHES A LA MILLAR. Have two bottled peaches (four halves), and cut them into small pieces. Whisk the whites of four eggs until very stiff, and add to them slowly one and a half tablespoonfuls of caster sugar, half a. wineglassful of eurncon, and last of all the peaches. Put the mixture into a buttered mould, stand it in a tin half filled with warm water, and bake it for nearly one hour. Serve hot 500.—BAKED CARROT PUDDING. Prepare half a pint of steamed carrots, and put them through a sieve. Add one larged baked potato which has been mashed, then loz. of butter and loz. of flour, and one tablespoonful of cream. Mix well over the fire. When half cold add the wrll- beaten volks of three eggs and one tablespoonful of sugar, and mix. When cold add the stiffly beaten whites of the three egcs Put all into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate o\en for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with a sweet white sauce.