Menus <for Every Day of the Year 3«2 92.—STUFFED BEETROOT. Cook some very small beets till quite tender. Scoop out tb. inside, let cool. Make a mixture of chicken and ham or rabbi and ham mixed, and a little salad, finely cut. Put into th hollow of the beet, pour a little mayonnaise sauce over, ( rnaineB with lettuces cut into shreds, and serve in a dish wit! round. 93.—PARSNIPS AU GRATIN'. Cook^a parsnip till tender. Cut it up into slices i inch thie and 1 inch long. Butter a baking jjish and season with salt an pepper. Lay in the parsnips, add salt and a little grated dr kippered herring. Pour Parmesan sauce over all, and put in ih oven to brown. Refer to 90 for sauce. 94.—CURRIED FISH Put into a clean stewpan 2oz. of butter, make quite hot, the put in three large onions cut up into dice shapes and one larg apple, fry together until a nice brown colour, then mix int this two tablespoonfuls of Marshall’s Creme de Riz. a desser spoonful of Marshall’s curry powder, the same of chutney, on teaspoonful of curry paste, the juice of two lemons, a little sa. and Marshall's coralline pepper, and one and a half pints o: ns stock. Cook together forty minutes, then add ljlb. cooked £- freed from skin and bone; let the fish cook in the curry for te minutes, then turn out into a hot silver dish in a border of rici garnish with shrimps or prawns made Hot with a little cream, an quarters of hard-boiled eggs. Filleted soles are very nice don this way if folded once and cooked in salad oil and water befoi mixing with the curry. Serve very hot. 94a.—STUFFED CELERIAC. Cook four small celeriac roots until quite tender. Cut ihei in half and hollow out the inside of each. Make a puree of th: and an equal quantity of pounded chicken, and one jiounde sardine, and cream. Replace in the celeriac half, and wan thoroughly in the oven, putting on a little more cream if tc dry. Serve hot. 95.—CAULIFLOWER AND TOMATO SOUFFLE Cook until tender a small cauliflower, pass it through a coars wire sieve with two tomatoes, stir into this three tablespoonlu of Bechamel sauce, adding salt and pepper and a large tahlespooi ful of grated Parmesan cheese; then add the yolks of three egg and stir well together, beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir light] into the other ingredients, pour into a panered souffle tin thf has been buttered and sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and bake i a moderate oven for half an hour. 96.—CAULIFLOWER, CURRY SAUCE. Boil a cauliflower until tender. Divide into pieces each sufl cient for one person, and arrange in a dish in a circle with tl stalks inward, and pour over them a nice curry sauce; arrans little heaps of grated coconnnt in the corners and centre Pi one large sliced onion in n pan with loz. of butter, melted h* of a sliced apple, and cook together for twenty minutes; add tvj Inblespooufuls of grated cocoannt, a pinch of ground ginget. an