465 Recipes. 531.—GABRIELLE’S PUDDING. Mix together Ilb. of flour, -rib. of sugar, ilb. of butter, one whole egg beaten, and one gill of cream. Bake in a mould for thirty-five minutes. Turn it out and pour some melted apricot jam over it, and serve hot. 532.—GERMAN PUDDING. Take four eggs, 2oz. of powdered sugar, 2oz. of sweet almonds, six bitter almonds, ilb. of fine breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter, one pint of bottled currants and raspberries mixed, and ilb. of moist sugar. Stew the fruit with the sugar, and let cool in a piedish. Blanch and mjx the almonds, pound them to a smooth paste, and add them to the eggs already beaten. Slowly mix in the sifted sugar and breadcurmbs, and slightly warm the butter before mixing it well in with the other ingredients. Pour the whole over the fruit in the dish, and bake it for half an hour in a slow oven. 533.—GATEAU OP APRICOTS. Stone 21b. of apricots, and mix with loz. of gelatine soaked in a quarter of a pint of water. Mix all together; add a quarter of a pint of sherry. Put into a ring mould and set aside to cool. Turn out, and serve with whipped cream in the centre. 534.—BLACK CURRANT CORNFLOUR MOULD. Stew a quart of black currants with 6oz. of loaf sugar and three tablespoonfuls of water. When cooked enough, ruh through a hair sieve. Put into a stewpan, and mix in a basin four table- spoonfuls of Brown and Poison’s cornflour. Stir that in the juice over the fire till it boils; if not stiff enough, add more cornflour. When cold, turn out, and serve with whipped cream or custard round. 535.—CHERRY JELLY. Soak loz. of gelatine in a quarter of a pint of water. Put lib. of stoned cherries, 4oz. of sugar, two cloves, and 1 inch of lemon rind into three-quarters of a pint of water, and simmer till tender, then remove the cloves and lemon rind and rub the cherries through a sieve, add the gelatine, and warm gently over the fire till the gelatine has melted. Add one teaspoonful of curaqoa, and mix all thoroughly. Put into a wet mould and let cool. Serve with whipped cream. 536.—GERMAN BLANC-MANGE. Put five cupfuls of milk to heat in a good-sized pan, large enough to allow of whisking. Mix 2oz. of potato flour or cornflour to a smooth paste in a bowl, and stir this in, allowing no lumps to form. Add sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten, and keep stirring during the ten minutes allowed for boiling. Take the whites of five or six eggs and beat them to a stiff snow (a tiny pinch of salt aids the rather tedious process), so stiff that a fork will stand up in flic mess, and then add this to the boiling blanc-mange, whisking it in vigorously. Also add a few drops of any flavouring essence chosen, or some finely pounded blanched almonds. Pour in a wetted mould, and stand to cool. Serve in a glass dish with a bright-coloured jelly round. H H