Recipes. 449 wine^lassful of kirsch is stirred in, and two tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly. When hot, serve the sauce m a tiny casserole for each person. Heat these carefully beforehand, and provide with lids, so that the sauce is practically boiling hot when it is thrown over the ice. 447 —ICED GOOSEBERRY CREAM. CREME DE GROSEILEE A MAQUEREAU. Prepare a thin syrup of water and white sugar, jib. of sugar to a breakfastcupful of water, boil for a quarter of an hour, lake lib of gooseberries and stew in this syrup; when perfectly tender rub the fruit through a sieve into a bowl. When cold place the bowl on ice and beat the puree with a wooden spoon, pouring in sufficient icing sugar to sweeten to taste. Beat for at least five minutes. Then whisk half a pint of thick cream to a troth and work it into the fruit. Keep the bowl on ice, and beat the contents rapidly all the time. Pile each champagne glass with gooseberry cream, and sprinkle the top with crushed praline almonds. 418,--MACAROON CREAM. Mix thoroughly together one pint of cream, five crumbled macaroons, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and the white of one egg, and three lumps of sugar. Place the mixture on the fire, and stir till it is as thick as a good custard. Soak two sheets of Marshall’s gelatine in water for a few minutes, and then molt them in the custard and mix well over a fire. Pour into a mould and let cool. 449.—TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH PINEAPPLE. A teacupful of flake tapioca to one cupful of sugar, the whites of three eggs, a small pineaple, grated, or half a tin; cook tor half an hour, stir often to keep from scorching. Place m the serving disli, beat the whites of three eggs very light, add gradually four tablespoonfuls of sugar, pile on the pudding, place in oven with door open for ten minutes, then close the door and let brown. A meringue will never fall if allowed to remain in the oven with the door open for several minutes. Serve the pudding cold with cream or custard. 450.-CONSERVATIVE PUDDING. The weight of three eggs in butter, sugar, and flour. Beat the butter to a cream, add the flour, and mix slowly with the eggs and sugar, add half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Mix all well. Ornament a buttered mould with cherries, pour in the mixture, and steam for nearly two hours. 451.—VALENTINE SHAPE. Put half a pound of black currant jelly into one pint of water and bring to the boil. Add six drops of vanilla essence and 2oz. of sugar, and boil. While boiling add 7oz. of ground rice and stir for ten minutes. Soak a mould in cold water, pour in the mixture, and set to cool. Serve with whipped cream. 452.—JAPANESE CHARLOTTE. Line a plain charlotte mould about quaj-tcr of an inch thick with lemon jelly, which has been coloured pink with a few drops of Marshall’s carmine, then take some spongo cake that has G G