Recipes. 5»7 pastry, brush over with egg, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake for about ten minutes, 813.—BROILED TRUFFLES. Wash and peel some truffles. Roll them each in a thin slice of bacon, and broil them over a nice fire. Serve very hot with a dusting of fried parsley over them. 814.—CANAPES OF FISH. Pound the remains of any fish till smooth, add salt and pepper, and enough cream to make a paste. Put into a forcing bag and force out on to fried croutes of bread, making a trellis design in three wavered lines. This should form four little squares in the centre. Cut one anchovy into four thin strips, and curl one up in each square. Have a little whiped cream, coloured pink, and pile it high on each square out of a forcing pipe. Serve cold. 815.—SARDINES A LA MILFORD. Prepare six fried croutons. Make a sauce of one teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, two of anchovy sauce, one dessertspoonful of flour. 2oz. of butter, and a quarter of a pint of boiling water; simmer this till the flour is cooked. Bone^ six sardines, and cut them int-o pieces, and arrange on the croutons. Pour the sauce over them, and serve them very hot. 816.—SARDINES A LA LILIAN. Fry six fingers of bread, and on these croutes put a paste made oi four sardines, two olives, and the yolk of one hard-boiled egg all pounded in a mortar. Beat, the white ot an egg stifl, arrange some on the paste, and put in the oven to get hot. Serve nicely arranged in the centre of the dish. 817.—SARDINE EGGS. Drop three eggs into boiling water and let them boil for fifteen minutes. Let them cool, remove nil the shell, .and cut them in half. Take out the yolks and pound them with three sardines and one teaspoonful of ham. Replace this mixture in the white of the egg, and serve on a round of white bread and butter. 818.-RAINBOW TARTLETS. Make some little tartlets of pufl paste, and divide them into four by moans of thin rolled paste crossed over the centre, hill one division with grated yolk of egg, a second with capers, or olives, a third with sluimps dusted over with coralline pepper, 011a the fourth with grated white of egg. Serve hot or cold m u, bed of salad chopped up. 819.—CROUTES A LA DONNA. Prepare some little croutons and arrange them on some cavaire, very thinly cut slices of lemon folded into fan shapes, and cucumber that has been cut into very fine wafer-like slices, and then scalloped, arranging these alternately; then, in the centre, on the caviare, stick in one or two skinned prawns. Place in the centre of the prawns a few French capers, and some little thin shreds of French red chillies, dust over with a little raw chopped parsley, and use for hors d’oeuvre or savoury.