entrees, entremets, roasts. 673.—SWEET AND SAVOURY SALAD. 1 Peel and slice six oranges and arrange in layers in a 1™“ bowl with grated cocoanut between, each layer being pretaced with a sprinkling of sugar and a squeeze of lemon juice. Grated nutmeg should form the top. . • oii iemon 0 Slice six tangerines, marinade for an nour in on, iemon juice a little salt, and black pepper. Strain off the marinade and mix with the pulp of a banana, worked into a puree with a fork add a spoonful of very finely minced celery, same of minced sour apple, a teaspoonful of castor ,auff a Hcea little grated horseradish. Mix all together, and dish the slices of tangerine separately for each person on fresh lettuce leaves, and pour the sauce over the top. For the marinade, use teacupful of oil, fifteen drops of lemon juice, half a teaspoontul of salt, and a pinch of black pepper. 674.—SWEETBREAD PATTIES. 1 Take some patty cases, lay an oyster, cooked, in the bottom of each, fill up with cooked sweetbread, and ornament witli chopped mushroom. SWEETBREAD SALAD. 2 Blanch the required number of sweetbreads and place in a saute pan with half a pint of good stock to every four sweet- breads. Baste them constantly, when a light brown they are done, arrange them in the centre of a large circle of mashed potato, and fill in the space between them and the potato with a macedoine of vegetables, or with green peas, and ornament with asparagus tips. Serve hot or cold. 675.—WILD DUCK AND SOUBISE SAUCE. Prepare the wild duck for roasting, wipe the inside with a cloth and sprinkle salt and pepper both over the skin outside and the inside. Chop up a small onion, add a tablespoontul ot breadcrumbs, a little minced parsley, salt, and pepper, and moisten with a spoonful or two of claret, and fill the cavity witn the stuffing. Rub the liver over the breast, and roast the bird somewhat overdone. Make a good gravy of the neck and gizzard, a spoonful of claret, half an anchovy, a blade or two of mace, a slice off the end of a lemon, an onion, pepper, and salt, and a, pint of water. Boil until the stock is reduced to bait a pint and strain through a hair sieve. Add a little beef essence, and pour over the duck when ready. For the sauce, peel two bpanisn onions, cut them in slices, place them in a bainmarie with two tablespoonfuls of water, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, pepper, and salt. Steam gently till the onion is cooked. 1 hen add a dessertspoonful of flour, the same quantity of cooked mashed