396 Menus for Every Day of the Year. all together. Line some little moulds with clear chicken fill with the mixture, and leave on ice till set. Or it can be served in little paper cases. 156.—BEEF SALAD A LA CHATEAU. Take some cold roast or braised beef and cut it in thin slices, season it with a little salt and mignonette pepper, roll up into a cylinder shape, and cut into lengths of about 2in., sprinkle some finely scraped horseradish over the top of the fillet, and set this with, a little aspic jelly whilst liquid, and dish up the fillets en couronne on a bed or border of aspic jelly, and garnish the centre and round the dish with a macedoine of cooked vegetables that have been seasoned with salad oil, tarragon vinegar,, a few drops of chilli vinegar, and a pinch of freshly chopped tarragon ana chervil.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 157.—VEAL ROLLS. Take some thin slices of cold veal and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Mince a little of the veal and add to it some chopped ham, some breadcrumbs, and chopped capers, bind with good stock. Spread this paste on the slices of veal, roll them up tightly, and fry them. Serve with fried tomatoes round the dish 158.—VEGETABLE MOULD. Butter a mould and line it with slices of tomato. Make a mixture of mashed potato and mashed turnip, chopped carrots, and turnips, three tablespoonfuls of each, salt and pepper, two sardines pounded, and one egg well beaten. Fill the mould, and steam it for half an hour. Turn out, and serve hot with brown sauce. 159.—MOULDED CALF’S HEAD. Cut the remains of calf’s head into dice. Line a tin mould with ’in. aspic jelly, made with good stock. Boil six eggs till quite hard, cut them into round slices, and lay on the aspic to set. Put six tomatoes through a sieve, mix with the calf’s head and some liquid aspic to bind. Pour into the mould and leave till cold. Turn out, and serve with tomato salad round. Slice some skinned tomatoes, sprinkle with chopped parslev. Make a dressing 01 a teaspoonful of mustard, the same of salt, the same of unshaken Harvey sauce, four of plain vinegar, and six of salad oil. These must all be mixed thoroughly and poured over the slice* of tomato. 160—RED CURRANT AND LETTUCE SALAD WITH COLD MUTTON. Remove the stalks from the currants and leave them to marinade for half an hour in a little seasoned oil and vinegar Ten minutes before the salad is required break the lettuce by hand ano wash, dry, and toss in a French dressing of two parts of oil to one 01 vinegar, add the currants last of all. 161.—RUSSIAN SALAD. Fill a border mould with aspic jelly decorated with vegetables cut into dice; when cold turn out. Take equal parts of cold chicken and crab, and tear into small shreds, a few olives cut into rings and a very little mayonnaise sauce to bind the whole. Place in the centre of the aspic jelly, put some finely broken up crisp lettuce on top, and ornament with whipped cream, put m circles on the lettuce, and small heaps of crab at intervals.