Menus for Every Day of the Year. 486 salt. When all are thoroughly mixed add the stiffly beaten wBites • l l j eSSS. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, covet with buttered paper, and steam it gently for thirty minute-:. Serve with lobster coral over all. 647.—SOLE AU GRATIA7 Remove the skin, head, and fins from a fresh sole, and trim it. Wash and dry it well in a clean cloth. Season with coralline pepper and salt. Rub the dish in which it is to be served with good butter, and lay the sole in it. Pour over a wineglass of white wine, cover with a buttered paper, place the dish in a baking tin with boiling water, and set in a hot oven for ten minutes, then remove the paper and pour all over the sole about half a pint of gratin sauce, sprinkle over this a tablespoonful ci browned breadcrumbs, and return the dish to the oven for twelve to fifteen minutes, then if not sufficiently deep in colour hold a red-hot salamander over it for a minute or two, sprinkle it lightly with chopped parsley, and serve very hot.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 648.—COLD MACEDOINE OF SOLE. Prepare a neatly cut-up salad of cooked tomatoes, celery, carrots, turnips, mushrooms, and potatoes. Mix lightly together with cream and a little salad oil. Pile on a dish. Lay nicely cut fillets of cold cooked sole on the macedoine, and serve with peeled raw tomatoes round the dish. 649.—MAYONNAISE OF BRILL, COD, OR HALIBUT. Cut some cooked brill into pieces about 21 inches long and li inches wide, and mask on one side with lobster farce. Put a pile of finely shredded lettuce into the centre of the dish, arrange the fish round it, and pour a rich mayonnaise sauce over all. Farce.—Pound the flesh of a small cooked lobster till smooth, add one anchovy and the yolks of two eggs. Rub through a sieve and use. 649a.—PRAWNS IN CASSEROLE. Take six Dublin Bay prawns or twenty-four ordinary prawns, shell them, and place in a casserole dish. Pour the following sauce over the prawns, and cook them for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot in the casserole. Sauce.—Put the prawn shells into a saucepan with one table- spoonful of prawn meat, half a tablespoonful of chopped onion, and two peppercorns, and just cover with white stock. Boil these well, then strain off the liquor and make a sauce with ioz. of butter and flour. A few curled anchovies may be put on top. 650.—FILLETED TURBOT. ITALIAN SAUCE. Cut some nice-sized fillets from a turbot, lay them in a pan and sprinkle them with salt, pepper, and a little lemon juict cover them with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Arrange the fillets on a dish.and pour over them a brown Italian sauce, which is made by putting into a saucepan one finely chopped onion, 2oz. of chopped mushrooms, loz. ot butter, salt and pepper, a bayleaf, and some chopped par- ey. Let this simmer for twenty minutes, and add a glass of white w'ine and warm it up, then half a pint, of brown sauce and -=cz. of glaze. Boil it up for five minutes, remove the bayleaf, and pour the sauce over the turbot. Serve hot.