443 Recipes. well beaten. Soak the breadcrumbs and milk for twenty minutes Add all the ingredients slowly, and mix well. Half fill some buttered moulds, and bake for half an hour. Serve with a sweet white sauce. 409.—MARMALADE PUDDING. Quarter of a pound of breadcrumbs, Jib. of suet, ilb. of flour, lib. of Dem. sugar, 5oz. of marmalade, one-third of a teaspoonfui of carbonate of soda, one large egg, a pinch of salt, and a little milk. Sauce.—One ounce of butter, loz. of flour, half a pint of milk, two desserfspoonfuls of sugar, and a few drops of flavouring essence. Marmalade Sauce.—One tablespoonful of marmalade, two table- spoonfuls of brown sugar, half a pint of water, and boil for ten minutes. 410.—BANANA CREAM—APRICOT CREAM. Reduce six bananas to a pulp. Dissolve 2oz. of Marshall’s gelatine. Put the pulp and gelatine, the juice of a lemon, and six lumps of sugar into a saucepan, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Let cool, and then add a small cupful of cream and a sherry glass of rum or noyeau, and beat all thoroughly. Set on ice in a mould, and serve as cold as possible. 111.—MOULDED PEARS. Peel lib. of pears and stew them slowly in half a pint of water till tender; rub them through a sieve. Make into a paste two tablespoonfuls of cornflour, and add to the pulp. Put all in a saucepan. Bring to the boil, and boil for six minutes. Pour into a border mould and let cool. Serve with whipped cream in the centre. 412.—DAMSON PUDDING. Follow the recipe for apple dumpling, only adding sugar to taste, and removing the stones if possible. 413.—RUM CREAM. Rub the rind of a lemon on two lumps of sugar, add half a pint of thick cream, one wineglassful of rum, and the juice of the lemon. Whisk all together till thick. Dip a piece of muslin in water, and spread it on a perforated mould. Pour in the cream, and set on a dish to drain and set. It will be ready to eat in two hours. 414.—GOLFER'S PUDDING. Ornament the top and sides of a mould with some clear lemon jelly, arranging in it some peeled grapes or any small fruit in season. When cold put in a layer of sponge cake cut into dice and soaked in sherry; bind in jelly. Fill in with a good custard to which some gelatine has been added, and flavour it with half a glass of curacoa. Put on ice and serve very cold. 415.—QUEEN MARY’S PUDDING. Warm a pint of milk to boiling point; add a little salt and loz. of isinglass. When dissolved strain it off into a clean saucepan; add loz. of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pint of double cream. Bring all to the boil, stirring well: add slowly the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and thicken all over a gentle fire. When