52<) Menus for Every Day <jf the Year. BAKING POWDER. Six ounces of bi-carbonate of soda, 5oz. of tartaric acid 3oz pounded sugar Mix very thoroughly, and w om tea-poonfu to every pound of flour. CANDIED CHESTNUTS. Shell and roast lib. of chestnuts. Then simmer them for fifteen minutes m a thick syrup made of lib. of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a wineglassful of water, adding sufficient orange- hower water to flavour the syrup. Serve them while hot. GREENGAGES IN SYRUP. Score the fruit with a penknife and then weigh it. Place the sa~e. Quantity by weight of sugar in a preserving pan with sIl .filenT water to prevent it from burning. When it boils up clarify it with the white of an egg, skimmed, and removed from the fire. When the syrup is cold, add the fruit and scald it. This must be repeated three or four times at a day’s interval, when the whole must be boiled up, the syrup strained off, and the fruit turned into bottles with wide necks. Boil the syrup alone until it is thick and rich, pour over the fruit, and tie the bottles down. The bottles themselves must be perfectly clean and dry before they are filled. MARRON GLACE. Boil the chestnuts in water until they are soft, peeling them carefully so as to avoid breaking them, and then dropping them at once into cold water to harden them. Then drop them carefully in a syrup of sugar cooked to the consistency of glue, and leave them until next day. The syrup, strained off the nuts, is then poured once more over the chestnuts, which are left to soak overnight, this process being repeated four times, while the sugar on the last occasion is boiled a little longer. To glace them, they should be dipped in a fresh syrup made very thick and rich, the chestnuts finally drying on a waxed sheet. DROP SCONES. One egg, one teaspoonful of baking soda, one teaspoonful of cream of Tartar, lib. of flour, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, about fib. of butter milk. Mix dry ingredients, add the egg. and enough butter milk to make a smooth batter, beat well, and let the mixture stand a little while. Grease a hot gridle or frying pan with a bit of suet, drop on the batter a spoonful at a time. When the scones are brown underneath and covered with bubbles on top, turn them with a knife, and brown the other side. You can turn milk into butter milk by putting a pinch of cream of tartar in it. Butter the scones and serve cold. NUT CAKE Mix all gradually together' and bake in a moderate oven : One teacupful of sour milk. ijoz. pf brown sugar, loz. of chopped Brazil nuts, and loz. of stoned raisins, one teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, a little allspice and ginger, one teaspoonful of baking powder, add two teacupfuls of flour or a little more, and bake in a greased tin.