378 Menus for Every Day of tht ) 'car. 70.—SPANISH EGGS. Cook some artichoke bottoms, and lay them on ;« crouton. J rim some poached eggs, and lay one on each. Pour the following sauce over ' Sauce.—Warm two tablespoonfuls of cream with one of v*iJit' stock, also twelve finely chopped button mushrooms and the sieved yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Serve quite hot. 71.—SEAKALE AND CHEESE. Cook some seakale till tender. Cut into Lin. .]®n8ths. put into a saucepan one large cupful of seakale, one gill of cream, halt a gill of milk, salt and pepper, and the yolk of an egg. bur over the fire for ten minutes. .Butter a flat dish, pour in the mixture, grate loz. of Parmesan cheese over it, and bake for fifteen minutes. 71a.—STEAMED FOWL WITH OYSTER STUFFING. Fill a good-sized fowl with a rich oyster stuffing, rub it over with a slice of lemon, wrap it in a well-buttered paper, and lay in a tin to steam for one and a half hours or more. Serve very hot with a good white sauce over it, and some grilled musorooras m the dish. 72.—STUFFED POTATOES. Bake some large potatoes, cutting one end flat for them to stand oil. Remove inside, and mix with remains of veal cream or an> white meat and a little chopped sweet chutney and some crc-am^. Make into a fairly dry paste and replace in the potato skm. and serve very hot, standing in rows. 73.—TOMATO SOUFFLE. Two e^gs six tomatoes, loz. of flour, 2oz. of butter, ten drop:- u, anchovy paste, a quarter of a pint of cream. Mix the flour smoothly with some cold milk. Boil the cream, .and stir in the flour paste, and boil again. Take it up and stir in the whites rt eggs beaten stiff, the yolks, anchovy, and butter, and lastly the tomatoes. Beat all thoroughly,. put in a papered scuffle dish, bake in a quick oven, and serve immediately. 74.—SCALLOPED SALSIFY. Boil some salsify until tender, and cut into dice. Put sonic into a scallop shell with salt and pepper. Put a. teaspoonfu! of cream into each scallop and the same of grated Parmesan cheese o-er Warm up in the oven for ten minutes. 75.-SPINACH PUDDING. Boil 4lb. of spinach in a very little boiling water with sail When done, put it at once in cold water to keep the colour, then pass through a sieve, and add to the spinach }lh. o, white bread, snaked first in water, and the yolk of an eee. Steam this in » mould (adding seasoningl for halt an hour One tahlespoonful o. grated cheese improves the flavour. Sauce.—One ounce of butter and loz. of flour Mix >he.c t well and slowly together, then add three-quarters of a pint ot white stock, and put to this the white.of an egg beaten to a. froth with half a gill of cream and seasoning to taste Turn out tru mould, and serve it hot with the sauce round