415 Recipes. for a few minutes to finish cooking, turn out very quickly into a silver dish with fancy paper, sprinkle with chopped parsley and Marshall’s coralline pepper. Serve at once for an entree or S‘lVOUry'253.-DEVlLLED DUCK WITH MUSHROOMS. Prepare a “ devil ” mixture by mixing on a plate 2oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of curry paste, a tablespoonlul of French mustard, and a reasoning of talt. W hen well blended spread thickly on the joints of cold duck, which have been deeply scored and laid in Worcester sauce, grill them over a clear fire (be caretul not to burn them). Wash and peel some mushrooms, put them on a tin, season with salt and pepper, put a small piece ol butter on each one, and cook in the oven. To serve, pile the duck high in the centre of the dish and the mu brooms round, or, if the mushrooms are large, put a piece of duck on to a mushroom. Garnish the whole with a plentiful sprinkling of coralline pepper. •254.—MUSHROOM OMELET. Cut up finely six mushrooms and stir them into four well-beaten eggs. Add one dessertspoonful of grated cheese and salt and pepper. When thoroughly mixed put the whole into tile omelet pan into 2oz. of melted butter, and fry a pale brown. It will take about five minutes. 255.—PRAWNS AND BARED EGGS. Clean and pick one teacupful of small prawns, lay them in a small oval baking dish or little egg cases, add a few drops of cream, salt and pepper, and (if liked) a few drops of anchovy essence. Break four eggs carefully over, and bake in the oven for six or eight minutes, or until the eggs are cooked. Serve very hot with a little grated Parmesan over. 256 —SPAGHETTI AND HADDOCK CUTLETS. Boil as much spaghetti as there is flesh on a small dried haddock. Cook the haddock and remove all the flesh from the bonea and shred it. Mince it finely with the spaghetti, add two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, the yolk of one egg, salt, pepper, and two tomatoes freed from seeds. Make firm or moist, as needs be, with either cream or breadcrumbs. Form it into cutlet shapes. Dip them in egg and breadcrumbs, sprinkle a little grated cheese on them, and fry a nice brown. 257.—BEETROOT FARCIE WITH PRAWNS. Procure some very small round beets and cook them until quite soft. Cut out the inside, leaving a very thin wall of beet, and fill with the following : Pick and clean some prawns and fry them in butter. Put them inside the beet, put a little finely chopped gherkin on top and a little pepper, and cover with mayonnaise sauce. Ornament with shredded salad, and serve cold. This can also be served hot, with a white sauce in place of mayonnaise. 258.—HYDERABAD PATTIES. Make some patty cases and fill with the following mixture : The pulp of two tomatoes freed from seeds, the yolk of one hard-boiled egg, one tablcspoonful of anchovy essence, and three boned sardines cut into small pieces. Mix well, but do not mash the sardines. Pile into the patties and serve hot.