454 Menus for Every Day of (he Fear. tender Serve very hot, with a piece of apple jelly on top of each apple. 477.—CURRANT PUDDING. Beat 6oz. of butter to a cream; add 2oz. of currants, 2oz. of sultanas, 8oz. of flour carefully mixed in, and three eggs thoroughly beaten, and 4oz. of sugar. Put into a buttered basin and tie up, and boil for four and a half hours. 478.—FRUIT MERINGUE. Prepare some meringues as below, and with the same mixture also form some rings, about four in number, making the one to be used for the bottom about 6 to 7 inches in diameter and the others graduating to a smaller size. Cook the meringue cases and the rings till they are a nice golden colour and quite crisp, then set them aside till they are quite coid. Arrange the rings, one on top of the other, on the dish on which they are to be served, the largest_ size at the bottom, then with a" forcing bag and large plain pipe fill up the cases so formed with some stiffly whipped vanilla cream that is sweetened, and on the other side of the bottom ring force out another ring of cream, and on this arrange some of the small meringue cases, so as to form a border; then take a large rose pipe in a forcing bag, fill it with mottled garnishing cream, and form a second border with little rose shapes of the cream. Have some raw ripe bananas peeled, and cut into two or four portions, according to their size, garnish each piece here and there with blanched, skinned pistachio nuts; then sprinkle the bananas with any liqueur, and arrange them slanting-wise down the outside case between the roses of the cream. Form a large rose of mottled whipped cream on the top of the bananas, and if cherries are in season 'or raw ripe red currants) have one or two bunches arranged on the top, first dipping them in boiled sugar. A sprig of smilax may be twisted round the meringues at the bottom. Use for a sweet for dinner, ball, supper, &c. Meringue Mixture.—Take eight raw whites of eggs whipped stiffly with a pinch of salt, and add to it lib. of caster sugar. Mix carefully together, then put the meringue into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and force it out in to cold, waxed baking tins in size to about half of a small apple, and of a pretty round shape. Dust them over with some of Marshall’s icing sugar, then put the meringues into a moderate oven and leave them till quite cooked. Use when cold. Rings for Foundation.—Take some of the prepared meringue mixture, put it in a forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and force it out into rings on to some cold, waxed baking tins, dusting over as for the small meringues. Cook similarly, and use. 479.—MACEDOINE OF STRAWBERRIES. Make a syrup by putting one pint of water to boil; when boiling, slowly add 11b. of sugar. Remove all scum as it rises. Add one teaspoonful of vanilla- essence and one wineglassful of curacoa. Take lib. of strawberries, free them from stalks, arrange them in a. deep glass dish piled high, and pour the syrup over them before it is quite coid Set aside to become cold, and serve with whipped cream on top.