Menus for Every Day of the Year 448 439. —BUTTERCUP PUDDING. Mix together 4oz of breadcrumbs, one teaspoonful of flour. 3oz. of finely chopped suet, two well-beaten eggs, two tablespoon- fuls of marmalade, one of caster sugar, half a teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda, the grated rind and juice of half a lemon. Mix all well, and steam in a basin for three hours. 440. —BREADCRUMB PUDDING. Three ounces of breadcrumbs and 2oz. of crumbed take, into these mix ljoz. of sugar, and pour a teacup of boiling milk oyer all. Beat two eggs, add to above, with the juice and rind oi a lemon, and 2oz. of butter. Mix well for twenty minutes. Pour into a mould ornamented with sultanas, and boil for nearly two hours. 441.—APPLE SHERRY PUDDING. Mix lib. of chopped suet, lib. of stoned raisins. Jib of apples chopped fine, Jib. of Demerara sugar, loz. of ground almonds, and lib. of fine breadcrumbs in.a basin. Beat three eggs well and mix all together, also one wineglassful of sherry, lie down in a buttered mould and boil for a good three hours. Serve with sherry sauce. 442.—GINGERBREAD PUDDING. Crumble Jib. of 3tale gingerbread into a bowl with Jib. oi flour, blanche and pound loz. of sweet almonds and add, also one ego well beaten, one tablespoonful of treacle, and half a cup ot milk, sugar to taste, about loz.. Boil all together .or one and a half hours, and serve with a wine sauce. 443.—COFFEE JUNKETS. One breakfastcupful of strong coffee,. dissolve in it three table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, add one pint of milk six drops of vanilla, and one tablespoonful of reunet, when the mixture is lukewarm. Pour in a glass dish and let set. 444.—ETONIAN PUDDING. Boil a large cupful of rice in enough milk to cover it Add 1J oz. of butter and let boil for ten minutes, and let c«ml. Stir in two well-beaten eggs. Line a piedisli with pastry, and put in a. layer of rice; just cover that with marmalade and fill up with rice7with again some marmalade on top. Bake for three-quar. = of an hour Serve with beaten white of egg on top. brown in the oven. 445.—M0NTE CARLO CHERRIES. Put 21b. of stoned cherries into a stewpan with ilb. of 1 nnd half a glass of water. When the sugar is melted add the cherries and boil gently for a few minutes. Y'.n^rnld'wYter’ti i ini mix a. dessertspoonful of arrowroot in yninnlli Add tho obornes and mix well. At the la * im mom. pour on a. liqueurglassful of kirsch and send to tabic burning ■146. HOT CHERRY AND ORANGE SAUCE. WITH K1RM H MOUboL. Take one part of liqueur to ten parts of syrup, diouhl tablespoonfuls. While the mousse is freezing the chern^ 1 be slewed in an orange syrup, and just before serving