Recipes. 453 470.—CHERRY MERINGUE. Line a round shallow tin with pastry made in this way, viz. : Rub loz. of butter into 6oz. of flour; add 2oz. of finely pounded sugar, and mix into a paste with the yolk of an egg and a teaspoonful of water. Having lined the tin, brush it over with beaten egg, prick it well with a fork, and bake it a nice colour Stcne lib. of ripe cherries, blanch a few of the ^kernels, and put them to boil with Jib. of sugar and half -a pint of water. When it has boiled to a syrup add the cherries and a few drops of carmine. Give them one boil up, then lift them with _a slice from the syrup into a basin, and reduce the syrup until it is thick. Pour it on to the fruit, and when it is cold put it into the baked crust. Whisk the white of an egg until it is stiff, mix it with 2oz. of fine sugar, put it into a bag with a plain pipe, and form a trellis on the tart. Dust it with icing sugar, and place it in the oven a few moments to set the meringue. Serve the tart on a fancy paper. 471.—BROWN BREAD ICE CREAM. Make a good custard of one pint of cream, yolks of two eggs, 4oz. of sugar, and a teacupful of milk. Let this cool. Add six drops of ratafia essence and enough brown breadcrumbs to form a solid substance, add a few glace cherries, and freeze. It looks best served in little paper cases with preserved fruit on top. 472.- OPEN JELLY. Make a good clear jelly, and put into a round mould with open centre. Colour half of it, and put white in first. Let it set, and then add pink. Prepare a macedoin“ of fresh fruit, and fill the centre with it, pouring a wineglass of curacoa over it just before serving. A little whipped cream is an improvement. 473.—RED CURRANT TART. One pint of currants cleaned and picked free from stalks, one pint of raspberries. Line a piedish with paste, put in a layer of currants, then rasps, and strew four tablespconfuls of Demerara sugar over them. Place a ventilating cup in the centre, cover with paste, and bake three-quarters of an hour. 474.—LEMON CASTLE PUDDING. Make some ordinary castle puddings, cut off a lid, and hollow out a little of the centre, but as deep as possible. Fill this with lemon cheese mixture, put on the lid; warm in the oven if wanted hot. Serve with thick cream. 475.—BANANA ICE. Rub five bananas through a sieve, add one tablespoonful of maraschino, the juice of half a lemon, and one tablespoonful of caster sugar scattered in lightly. Gradually add to this one pint of cream, stirring thoroughly all the time, and freeze it. 476.—APPLE PUFFS. Take six apples, core them, and cut out a hollow in the centre halfway down the apple. Fill the lower narrow half of the core with apple jelly and the upper half with sago already more than half cooked. Put a small piece of butter on top, and bake till