434 Menus for Every Dny of the Year ice cream, which have been frozen very hard and moulded in little walnut-shaped moulds. Stand the glass dish on a fancy paper ii a silver dish, and send to table immediately. 359. —BANANA CHARLOTTE RU8SE. Eight sponge finger biscuits, four bananas, one gill of cream. loz. of caster sugar, a few drops of lemon juice, five sheets of Marshall’s gelatine dissolved in water. First line a small souffle or cake tin with stiff white paper, then line it with finger biscuit- trimming them at the sides so that they pack very tightly. After that put four or five strips of biscuit on a board, and stamp : out round the size of the bottom of the tin by means of a round pastry cutter. Put these in the tin, skin the bananas, and pass them through a hair sieve; whip the cream, add the banana puree to it, and sweeten and flavour. Next dissolve the gelatine, coo. slightly, and strain into the mixture. Pour at once into the pre- pared tin. When firm, turn out and remove the paper. Care must be taken in lining the tin that the paper is not higher than the biscuits, or the mould will break in removing the paper 360. —APRICOTS A L’AMERICAINE. Fry till a pretty golden colour in clarified butter some cut-out rounds of French roll about a J-inch thick. Drain them, and sprinkle them with icing sugar, and put them on a baking tin in the oven to glaze. Put on each of these croutons the half of a hot cooked apricot. The tinned fruit made hot will do for this Arrange en couronne round the dish on whmh they are to be served, and pour a custard as in peaches a la creme round the di-h Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 361.—HAMPSHIRE PUDDING. Mix Jib. of fresh butter with lib. of rice flour until smooth, add -jib. of caster sugar and salt to taste. Moisten into a firm paste with orange flower water, roll it, and divide into balls 2 inches across. Bake for thirty-five minutes between sheets of paper. 362.—BABA WITH FRUITS. Pass lib. of fine flour through a sieve, and put about a quarter part of the flour into a small basin. Mix loz. of German yeast and a pinch of salt into a quarter of a pint of tepid milk and water, and work it into the quarter part of flour into a little round ball, and cut a cross on the top. Then with the remaining flour make a little well in a basin, stand the dough in this, and draw the flour over it. Cover the basin over with a cloth, and leave it in or on the screen for about fifteen to twenty minutes, till the dough has well broken through the flour. Put all out of the pan on to the table or slab, break into it seven small whole eggs, add 10oz. of good hutter and 2oz. of caster sugar. Mix all well together and work it for twenty minutes, cutting the paste well between the fingers and working it lightly and quickly by drawing it up and casting it back, making a sort of circular motion with the hands to and from you. When the paste is ready it will leave the hands perfeot.ly clear. Colour it with a little saffron or apricot yellow, and when it leaves the hands clear while working, mix in about 6oz. of various dried fruits. Place it in buttered moulds, let it rise well, and then bake in a moderate oven for rather better than