484 Menus for Every Day of the Year 638.—HARE SOUP. One hare, 2oz. of beef dripping, loz. of lean ham, two onions, two carrots, one turnip, two sticks of celery, three quarts of stock, spice and herbs and seasoning, a little rice flour, one wineglassfuj of port, and one teaspoonful of red currant jelly. Melt the dripping in a large stewpan, add the ham, and fry the hare ' which should be cut into joints) till well browned, then remove it and add the vegetables (cut into slices), and fry them lightly. Then replace the hare in the pan and add the herbs and the stock, and let it simmer for three hours, skimming from time to time. When the meat is tender, remove the best portions and cut it into strips, and put it aside till required. Pass the soup and vegetables which remain through a hair sieve, reheat, and thicken with a little rice flour, add a few drops of Marshall’s carmine, and the red currant jelly. Put the strips of meat which you have put aside into the soup, add the wine, and serve. If liked, little forcemeat balls may be added. If so., they must be poached first, then added to the soup. Also the blood of the hare may be added, but care must be taken not to let it boil after it is added. 639.—CHESTNUT PUREE. Cut off the tops of lib. of chestnuts, and roast the nuts for fifteen minutes, then take off the outer and inner skins and cook in a pan, with sufficient light stock to cover, for three-quarters of an hour with a pat of butter, when they should be quite dry. Pass them through a wire sieve, mix with a little cream or milk, a pat of butter, a pinch of salt and sugar, and a dessertspoonful of anisette, and colour with Marshall’s carmine to a pale salmon shade. Warm, and use. . 640.—CREME ROYALE. Three pints of strong, well-flavoured white stock. 2oz. of cooked macaroni, two yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese, one teaspoonful of choppec pa.rsley. Cut the macaroni into small pieces, let it simmer in the stock for five minutes, and season with salt and pepper and a pinch of cayenne. Beat the yolks of the eggs into the cream. Remove the soup from the fire and beat the cream into it. Sprinkle in the parsley and cheese, and rewarm the soup without allowing it to boil.