444 Menus for Every Day of the Year. fairly solid pour it out and stir it till half cold. Mix with it seme preserved ginger cut in dice, also cherries and apricots Serve cold with Devonshire cream, if possible. 416.—ERMGASSEN PUDDING. Beat three eggs very well, mix with 11b. of butter, and sugar t taste—perhaps four tablespoonfuls. Line a piedish with good pastry, putting a thin layer of some fresh fruit at the bottom Pour in the mixture, and bake. 417.—APPLE SOUFFLE. Mix six tablespoonfuls of apple pulp with the well-beaten yolks of five eggs. Stir over the fire till it thickens, and add the well- beaten whites of the five eggs and half a glass of noyeau. Stir thoroughly, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 418.—GERMAN COFFEE CREAM. 1. Set three pints of milk on the fire to heat, and meanwhile mix in a bowl to a perfectly smooth paste four dessertspoonfuls of potato flour, or cornflour can be substituted. Stir this slowly into the boiling milk, so that no lumps form, and add sugar to sweeten according to taste. Well beat up the yolks of five or six eggs, and slowly whisk them in, letting the whole boil for about ten minutes, counting from the time that the flour was added. Keep stirring well all the time to prevent it sticking to the pan. When done stand it on one side to keep quite hot. In a small thick- bottomed pan put Jib. of loaf sugar and sufficient water to melt it. This must be boiled until a very dark brown colour is attained, and keep stirring it, as it must on no account be burnt, which easily happens. When done, pour it into the hot cream, beating it up briskly all the time, so that both are thoroughly mixed. The cream should be a nice brown colour, having the appearance of a good cafe au lait. It must be poured into a glass dish and served very cold. ICED COFFEE CREAMS. 2. Whip three whole, eggs in a- double saucepan with 2oz. of caster sugar, three tablespoonfuls of Marshall’s maraschino syrup, add until the contents are just warm, and whip often until it gets cool again; then have ready one gill of strong coffee, make it hot, aoa to it three sheets of Marshall’s gelatine, strain on to the mixture in the double pan, and whip all together. W hen getting neariy cold add a quarter of a pint of very stiffly whipped cream, pour into custard glasses, and stand in the refrigerator, and when about to serve put a rose of pink, stiffly whipped, and frozen ere3m on, and garnish with green cocoanut. 419.—DEVONSHIRE RHUBARB PUDDING. Take sufficient rhubard cut into inch lengths to fill a. pudding basin Grease the basin, put the rhubarb into it, and then pour over it a batter made as follows : Put two tablespoonfuls of Sour into a basin, break into it two eggs, and make into a smooth paste: add by degrees a. pint of milk, or rather more if necessary: the batter should be of the consistency of rich cream. Tie .lie basin over with a floured cloth, and steam the pudding lor an hour and a half. Turn out to serve, with Devonshire cream and brown sugar, or a nice sweet sauce.