Recipes. 5°5 pan with salted boiling offlte^inTecrtopa Season the nside.wH^t^nd Pepper, and oiT the pointed tops. Season ^^“^hrooms, and salt Put fill with a paste of poundecl chieaen, twenty minutes. Take them in a pan, and “wtom*uppermost on a dish. Put a little them up and arrange* bottom uppermo ^ ^ very hot. SedU1maarnrdowaronnS and^^rve very hot. —OX TONGUE. ESPAGNOL SAUCE. Wash the 2oz. of chopped bacmi , aa head of cel®£ytop^cove^with'a“buttered1 paper! one onion. Put the tongue on P>, , , half a pint of stock, and stew it for thirty minutes. T * d cook all gently one and a halt gills of sherry. Cover toe:pan, ^ gtock ag u re. for two and a half hours, basting rgul^ lytnm the tongue duces to keep up Quantif ■ , ne d 3erve hot with Mrs. nicely, and brush it oier with g e. “hree-quarters of a pint A. B. Marshall s espagnol sauce. Liebig’s extract of meat, of brown sauce with one tea9fp°P^tp a Dinch of caster sugar, three mushrooms, one glass of ®h®rr^:t“'artP Add four drops of 732 -COLD CHICKEN CREAMS. iii« ABftfUSSl SS. 4,5; 1- 't tarragon, &c., between each. 733. -MACEDOINE OF PIGEONS. Roast three pigeons and cut tl.eni through the middle, length- wavs. Make a macedoine of vegetables and pile them high^in U centre of a dish. Lav the pigeons against the maeedome ana round it, and pour a nice espagnol sauce round it all, and spun thickly with chopped fried parsley. 734. —OX TONGUE A LA SMITH. Roil a fresh ox tongue and skewer it to a board to keep the shape Trim it nicely, removing the fat. Put a thin glaze over it. and ornament the tip with yolk of egg fsiovcid) and a row of ham butter Arrange small circles of cooked beetroot up the centre of the tongue, with a line of ham butter between each. Put on a good full frill, and serve on a bed of green salad with bunches of chopped aspic at intervals, and also curried eggs cut in quarters. 731A — BOILED CHICKEN AND CUCUMBER SAUCE. Prepare a chicken for boiling. Cover the breast with a few slices of lemon, tie a buttered paper over the top. bring to the boil, and boil until tender In the meantime prepare the sane. Slice 11 cucumber, drain the pieces, and place them with hi onions (sliced) in a stewpan with a piece of huttei. Stew uni11 of pulp-like consistency. Rub through a sieve, add Hall a