447 Recif>es. of the cream over them anti a glass of maraschino. Mix well Pour all into the mould and set on ice till quite cold. 433.—WINE CREAM. Put quarter of a pint of white wine in a basin, add the juice and rind of one lemon, half a pint of cream, and 3oz. of sifted sugar. Beat all together until it becomes thick, and fill some jelly glasses. Let stand for some hours before serving. 434.—APPLES STUFFED WITH ICE CREAM. Remove a good core from some large apples and stew them quickly not to break them, arrange them in a dish on a paper, and fill the centres with strawberry ice cream. Heat half a pint of cream and half a pint of milk to boiling point, arid stir in 2oz. of sugar and let cool. Mash one pint of strawberries with loz. of sugar and strain. Then add to the milk. Beat the white of one egg till stiff, add it to the mixture, and freeze it. 435. BANANA RUSSE. RHUBARB RUSSE. PEAR CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Boil lib. of rhubarb in three-quarters of a pint of water. When cooked put through a sieve, add one glass of sherry and loz. of gelatine melted in a little water, and the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs; warm all over the fire for five minutes. Line a plain mould with sponge fingers. Put a layer of lemon jelly at the bottom, set it, and pour in the above mixture. Serve very cold, with whipped cream on top. Banana russe is made in the same way, only with raw bananas. Apricot russe is made with tinned or raw apricots. 436. -ICED FRUTT VOL A.U VENT. Make a very light vol au vent case of flake pastry. Let it cool. Fill with peaches cut in half, or with fresh strawberries. In either case pour a glass of maraschino over the fruit, and the same of syrup Pile high on top either peach or strawberry ice cream, the same as the fruit in the vol au vent, and serve at once. 437.—KING’S PUDDING. Butter a mould and garnish it with preserved fruits. Have eight sponge fingers and soak them in sherry. Make a rich custard with three eggs in it, and add loz. of gelatine. Pour some into the mould. Then put a layer of sponge fingers, whole if possible. Fill in with custard and finish with the fingers. Set aside to cool, and serve with custard. 438.—SWISS RHUBARB PUDDING. Butter a piedish and sprinkle it well with freshly made white breadcrumbs, spread the bottom with some nicely stewed rhubarb flavoured with the grated rind of a lemon, keep the juice for the sauce, out a layer of breadcrumbs and then a layer of rhubarb until the dish is full, finishing off at the top with the bread- crumbs. Put a few knobs of butter on the breadcrumbs i ud hake in a moderate oven half an hour, stir half a pint of rhubarb juice in a teasponful of Brown and Poison’s cornflour, let it boil, and pour over the pudding when it is turned out of the piedish. Serve hot or cold.