496 Menus for Every Day of the Year. Then just cover with good stock, and braise for three-quarter - of an hour. Cut the sweetbread into slices i inch thick, spnnkh- it with chopped fried parsley and grated Parmesan cheese, ana toast in the oven for ten minutes. Serve very hot with a coosec artichoke bottom on each slice and a marble of parsley butter on the artichoke. 688.—NEW CARROTS MAITRE D’HOTEL. Boil some young carrots, putting plenty of salt in the water Drain them and keep hot. Melt some butter, parsley done througi. a sieve, a little pepper to taste, very little sugar, into some good, clear stock, and pour this over the carrots, and serve very hot. 689. —ASPIC QUENELLES. Make some little quenelles of chicken pounded with cream. Cover the round side of the quenelles with foie _gras and then a coating of aspic jelly, some being red, others white. Serve each on a little oval of cold tongue, slightly larger than the^queneee. and place strips of truffle on the projecting edges of tongue. Serve on a bed of salad. 690. —CUCUMBER FARCIE. Peel a cucumber and cut into slices about 1 inch thick. Lay them in a baking tin, over each sprinkle some salt and pepper, and lay a slice of lean ham or bacon on top and bake for fifteen minutes in a slow oven. Remove the bacon and the seeds of the cucumber, leaving a ring. Into this pile the following forcemeat: one teacupful of chicken pounded, half that of tomato puree, some salt and pepper. Fill _ the rings _ with this and bake slowly for ten minutes. Serve a little coralline pepper over all. 691.—MUTTON CUTLETS WITH SOUBISE SAUCE. Prepare the cutlets, egg and breadcrumb, frv a pale colour, and dish them straight down the centre of the dish on a border of mashed potato, and pour the sauce down each side. For th:; soubise sauce : Take three onions sliced into halves, one pint o' milk, ^oz. butter, a little pepper and salt, a bunch of herbs, and a bayleaf, and half a pint of Bechamel sauce: boil slowly for three-quarters of an hour, remove the herbs, and pass the sauce with the onions through a hair sieve, then add two tablespoon- fuls of cream, make hot in the bainmarie, and use. 692.— POULET JOSEPHINE. Prepare a chicken for boiling. Put in a stewpan four table- spoonfuls of salad oil. some herbs, salt, an onion cut in ?tnp.= . six cloves, and two blades of mace, and warm thoroughly. Then put in the chicken and cook it very slowly, turning it constanth Take out the chicken and half the oil. To the remainder of (1 oil add a sliced tomato and a little stock and stew for leu minutes, add a few pieces of boiled macaroni, a bout 1 inch long, warm for five mimites. and then serve round the chicken