Recipes. 5°3 719.—KOLLED LOIN OF MUTTON cSr. vE and serve with a good brown mushroom sauce. 720 -GRENADINS OF VEAL. mrnimmm. '& it ssTSS. ssu*u.*«srs. sfrRn^r:- it round the dish.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 721.—TOMATOES IN ASPIC. Take three firm tomatoes all one size, and scoop put the centres. ChoD six prawn” very finely, and bind together with mayonnaise sauce to whiT has been added a little spinach colouring fill up the cavities of the tomatoes, and coat each tomato well with half-set aspic jelly. Have ready three aspic jelly rounds which have been coloured with a little green colouring, place one t°ma^ on each round, cut three small rounds of aspic, and place one on top of each tomato. Serve on a dish with a good salad around. 722.—TOMATO RICE. Cook half a cupful of rice, wash, separate, and Ory. Cook or five tomatoes, pass them through a sieve, and add to the rice with four or five nice sardines which have been freed from skin and bone and broken into flakes. Put into a ^al" ^arl1 heat, and serve with croutons of toast or fried bread round. Any pieces of tasty fish can be used instead of sardines if liked. 723.—OX TONGUE A LA NAPOLITAINE. Put a fresh tongue into a stewpan. cover with cold water, and bring to the boil; take it up, rinse in cold water, and dry in a clean cloth. Put into a stewpan an onion, a bayleat, a blade ot mace, some thyme, and a turnip, three or four mushrooms, and about ten peppercorns. Rub the tongue over with butter, pul it in the saucepan, cover it, and let it fry for forty minutes. Add one pint of good stock, re-cover the pan, and simmer contents tor three and a half hours, keeping well basted, and adding sherry as it reduces. When cooked, cut off the fat end, peel oil the outer skin, and brush over with warm glaze. Serve standing on a hot dish with some espagnol sauce round. 724.—BRAISED FILLET OF BEEF. Take about 3lb. of fillet of beef, season with pepper and salt, and put into n stewpan with loz. of butter, and let it try tor about fifteen minutes. Then sprinkle the fillet with a tablespoon- ful of flour, add si pint «>f nicely ilnvnured stock, bring to the boil.