Menus for Every Day of the Year 414 for a few minutes, keeping it all well stirred to pr< its burning. Then add a dessertspoonful of Marshall's curry powder, a. saltspoonful of ground ginger, a little salt, three red chillies (pounded), a pinch of ground cloves, the same of ground cinnamon, a little finely chopped bayleaf and thyme, the juice of one lemon, and half a pint of stock. Cook together till the mixture is quite dry, taking care that it does not burn, then mix into it 111b. of cooked vegetables, such as carrots, broccoli, turnips, French beans, haricot beans, &c. Mix well to- gether, and dish on a border of rice, garnish with nicely cooked brussels sprouts and fancy shapes of beetroot. Serve very hot for luncheon or second-course dish. 250.—VEGETABLE MOULD. Cook until tender two large carrots, one turnip, four tomatoes, half a cucumber, one small onion, one very small vegetable marrow, one beetroot. Cut them into slices, and line a mould with them in turn. Dissolve loz. of gelatine in one pint of stcck, add to it equal portions of the remaining vegetables, and fill the mould. ^ Put it aside to set. Then turn out on a fiat dish, garnish with cold chicken and ham or meat. Mayonnaise sauce may be served over it if liked. 251.—TARTLETS A L’INDIENNE. Twelve large oysters, one gill of picked shrimps, one shallot (chopped finely), half a gill of cream, one and a half tea spoonfuls of Marshall’s curry powder, a small teaspoonful of lemon juice. 2oz. of butter, cayenne pepper and salt according to taste, cne tea- spoonful of grated cocoanut, one teaspoonful of flour. To garnish, use some chopped parsley and a little Marshall’s coralline per >:-r. Half a pound of good pastry (short crust or flaky). Line some pattv pans with the pastry very thin, then fill them with a hard crust of bread or rice, and bake about ten minutes, then fill with the mixture and place a prepared oyster on top. Cover them with a, buttered paper, and place in the oven till quite^hot. Then dust with the parsley and Marshall’s coralline pepped and wr^d on a dish on a dish paper, and serve at once. Mixture : Melt the butter, fry the onion in it, add the curry powder, cocoanut, liquor from the oysters, cayenne, flour, and lemon in ice. Cook for about five minutes, and then add the cream and shrimps; stir well a-d use. To prepare the oysters, blanch them and remove the_ beards, and lay them in cold water till required, to keep them white. 251a.—PORK STEAKS AND APPLES. Cut away as much fat as possible from the pork cutlets or steaks and broil them well on a gridiron. Fry some slices of apple in hot lard, and arrange them on the steaks with a few drops of Harvey sauce nol shaken up. Serve vpp- hot 252 —CURRIED OMELET. Mix well together in a basin four whole eggs (whites beaten to a stiff froth previously), two good tablespoonfuls of new milk. l’_z. of butter twarmed), a little salt and white pepper, a teaspoonfu! of Marshall’s curry powder, mixed to a paste with milk, and a dessertspoonful of flour. Melt l»oz. of butter in an omelet pan, then pour the mixture in. Stir with a wooden spoon for a minute or two. to get it equally cooked, then put in a few finely chopped curried vegetables made quite hot. Fold over, and place in oven