Recipes. 463 522.—FROZEN CHERRIES AND CREAM. Having stoned 11b. of ripe Morelia cherries, mix the fruit with lib. of pounded sugar, and stand it aside for two hours, then add a gill of white wine. Stir well together, and put the fruit into an ordinary freezer well surrounded with ice and salt. Stir the fruit occasionally until it is frozen, then pile it in a glass dish and sprinkle it with desiccated coeoanut. Serve iced whipped cream in a separate dish. To make the latter, mix a gill of whipped cream with a gill of custard, flavour it with a few drops of vanilla, and freeze it in the ice machine to a nice consistency. 523.—COFFEE ICE Stir into one quart of boiling milk the yolks of four eggs and one dessertspoonful of cornflour. When cooked, remove from the fire and sweeten to taste; also add a few drops of vanilla and three tablespoonfuls of coffee essence. When quite cold, add some whipped cream, and freeze. When ready for table, stick over with burnt almonds, and hand ice wafers with it 524.—GOLD LEAF JELLY. Soak loz. of gelatine in a quarter of a pint of cold water for ten minutes; add three-quarters of a pint of boiling water. When cold, add the juice and grated rind of two lemons, 7oz. of loaf sugar, and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Place on the fire for a few minutes till the sugar is melted and all is well mixed, but do not let it boil. Divide it and flavour one half with half a glass of any liqueur; add a few drops of sap green colouring, and pour into the mould. Allow the other half to cool a little, then mix into it some broken gold leaf. Pour it into the mould, and set aside to cool. 525.—BAVAROISE WITH PISTACHIOS. Take a fancy mould, and line it about one-eighth of an inch thick with lemon jelly. Have lib. of pistachios put into cold water, and let them come to the boil, strain them, and rub them in a doth to remove the skins, cut them in slices lengthwise and from the slices cut very fine shreds, and put these into a little stewpan with six tablespoonfuls of lemon jelly that is coloured a pretty bnght green with Marshall's sap green. Mix together and leave on ice till the pistachios are set, then take some up. and with the fingers press them all over the prepared mould. When the mould is completely covered inside, lightly mask over with more lemon jelly, and let this set, then fill up the mould with bavaroise mixture prepared thus : Bavaroise Mixture.—Take a good half pint of new milk, and put into it half a stick of vanilla pod and 2oz. of caster sugar. Lot it infuse for about ten minutes, standing the pan in the bain njarie. Remove the pod, and dissolve in the milk loz. of Marshall's gelatine. Put three raw yolks of eggs into a basin, and stir the milk on to them. Return the mixture to the pan, and stir on the stove till the contents thicken, but do not allow R 1 Pu1 ' S!:rai.n ^ through the tammy or strainer, and let it cool, then mix into it two large tablespoon fuls of orange-flower water^ a wineglass of Silver Rays (white) rum, the same of Marshall s maraschino or noyeau syrup, and half a. pint of stiffly