522 Menus for Every Day of the Year. drained on a cloth, dish them up with fried parsley.on a folded napkin and serve hot. 849.—EGG CROUTES. Boil four eggs for fifteen minutes. Take out the yolks, and rub them through a sieve, also one dessertspoonful of cooked and chopped beetroot. Mix these together with one teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little pejiper and salt, spread this paste thickly on a fried crouton of bread. Ornament the top with a pile of the white of egg very finely chopped, and serve as hot as possible. 850.—BROILED OYSTERS AND EGGS. Boil two eggs until hard. Then cut into slices across, dip in egg and breadcrumb, and fry them. Cut each egg into five slices. Broil the same number of oysters, and lay one on each slice of egg. Arrange all on a thin fried croute, and put finely chopped capers round the edge of the croute. 851.—DEVILLED OYSTERS. Open the oysters in their deep shell, season them with a small piece of butter, a little cayenne salt and lemon juice, place them on a gridiron over a brisk fire, and broil them for about three minutes. Serve with bread and butter. 852.—TOMATO PUFFS. Make some batter with two tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs, a gill of milk, and a gill of tomato pulp; add a finely chopped esehallot, a few drops of lemon juice, salt, and pepper. Half fill some cup tins (well greased) and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes, turn them out on to a folded table napkin, and serve at once as a savoury. 853.—LUXETTE TARTLETS. Prepare the required number of puff pastry tartlets. Get a Is. tin of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s Luxette and mix with it the pounded yolks of two eggs, and a little cream. Fill the tartlets roughly with this mixture, and place two or three very g) grilled mushrooms on top. 854.—SARDINES A LA DOROTHY. Cut six sardines into lengths of 11 inches, sprinkle them with pepper, and wrap them round in a thin slice of bacon, and fry them in a. little butter. Prepare some fried croutes and sprinkle a very little Parmesan cheese over them. Fry six slices of tomato and lay one on each croute. Then put the fried sardines on top, and serve very hot. 855. - SAVOURY BUTTERFLIES. Make sonic small cheese biscuits and cut some into half-moon shapes. Prepare some anchovy butter by mixing up one tea- spconful of anchovy essence and 2oz. of butter, and a few drops of lemon juice. Put this into a forcing bag with a plain PH" and force it on to a. cheese biscuit in the shape Or a head and body of a butterfly. Place two liny round-- of olives for the eyes and two thin pieces of parsley stalk for flu antenna-, lake ftu half-moon pieces of biscuit and stick them with the comer.-: