386 Menus for Every Day of the Year. chopped squares of ham. Arrange on a bed of tomato rice, with a thick tomato sauce round. Tomato Rice.—Stew Jib. of rice with loz. of butter, half a pint of tomato pulp, and a teaspoonful of Liebig’s extract of meat, till tender. _ 110.—BEETROOT A LA MODE. Take some well-cooked beeta, cut in rounds about i inch thick. Fry on buttered, fried toast with finely chopped parsley Epnnk ed over, and a marble of parsley butter in the centre. 111. —EGGS AU GRATIN. Have some hard-boiled eggs cut in halves and arranged in 2 dish sprinkle some fried parsley over them which has been rubbed through a sieve, and pour a thick cheese sauce over all, and brown in the oven. 112. —VEGETABLE CURRY. Chop up lib. of each of the following: Carrots, potatoes, pe&s, cabbage, turnip, and French beans. Fry them for a few minutes in fat. Make a paste of one and a half tablespoonfuls of curry powder, 2oz. of cocoanut, a little water, twelve raisins, and a few chopped almonds, and one breakfastcupful of milk andtwo of good stock and work it till of the desired consistency V hen the vegetables are well done arrange them in the centre of a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Serve with boiled nee ana chutney separately. 113—CABBAGE ROLLS. KOHL ROULADEN. Lay a cabbage in boiling water till the leaves are soft; remove the larger outside ones. Cook the heart of the cabbage till tenc.r and then chop up finely. Mix this chopped cabbage with mmc:-o pork or veal (two-thirds meat, one-tlnrd cabbage'. To each pound of mixture add three eggs, some salt and pepper. In cabbage leaf lay some of the mixture, and roll into a tieht sau-age about 3in. long and fairly thick and tie with string dip in flour and fry a very light orown m boiling fat. Then place the roi^ in a pan and just cover with thin stock, and let them stew gen,l for one and a half hours. Remove the string, and serve in some thick gravy. 114 —BEEF ROLL A LA BELLE. One and a half pounds of best beef steak, lib. of lean ham Jib. of breadcrumbs two eggs. Mince beef and ham together and mfx all well. Make a thick roll, and put in a well-floured cloth and steam for three hours. When cool, glaze or breadcrumb t.ie roll. Eaten cold. 115. PLOVERS’ EGGS WITH ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. 1 Cook the required number of artichoke bottoms in sn.ted water drain and frhn neatly. Boil hard an equal number of plover’s’ eggs; cut a small piece off the white m order to make the stand upright. Place an egg on each artichoke, aunnklc with chopped parsley, arrange on a hot dish, pour some thick toma sauce round the artichokes, and serve very hot. MAYONNAISE OF PLOVERS' EGGS. 2 Take some small china shells. Shred into each a■ little very fine; over the lettuce put a little mayonnaise sauce. Cut a