397 Recipes. 162.—FILLETS OF BABBIT. Cut some iillets from a rabbit. Place in a stewpan with some salt and pepper, a stick of celery, a bay leaf, and just cover with stock. Place on the lire and let it stew slowly. Cook a cucumber and four tomatoes. Put all through a sieve, and make into a thick sauce with a little of the rabbit gravy and some cream. Dish up the fillets round some mashed potatoes, and pour the sauce over all. Ornament with button mushrooms. 163.—SAVOURY CARROTS. Take lib. of new carrots. Wash and trim them, boil them for a quarter of an hour in sailed water. When quite tender, drain off the water and shake the carrots on to a dry cloth. Wipe each one carefully, so as to rub ofi the outer skin. Place them in a sauce- pan with a fair-sized piece of butter, toss them as the butter melts, and sprinkle them with caster sugar, lemon juice, and black pepper and salt. Just before serving add a dessertspoonful of jellied veal stock, freed from fat. Make very hot, sprinkle a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley over the top, and serve at once. 164.—CURRIED PRAWNS IN CASSEROLES. Put a tablespoonful of curry powder, one of flour, and a gill of clear stock into a pan, and fry them, stirring to a smooth paste, add salt to taste, and not quite half a teaspoonful of finely chopped onion. Mix well. Warm the prawns in butter, place in the little dishes, and pour the curry sauce over them. Put a very little grated cocoanut in the centre. 165.—TOMATO MOULD. Boil 21b. of tomatoes in a saucepan with one onion, salt and pepper, until quite tender, add loz. of gelatine, and melt it over the fire, mixing thoroughly. Put it all through a sieve, add loz. grated Parmesan cheese and the stiffly beaten white of one egg. Pour it into a wet mould and set it to get very cold. Serve in a bed of chopped aspic jelly. 166.—CUCUMBER AU GRAT1N. Peel a cucumber, and cut it into rounds about ain. thick or less, and remove the seeds. Dip these in egg and then in grated Parmesan cheese, and fry for a few minutes. Serve very hot on a thin round of toast, and put three or four small dice of tomato in the centre with a curled anchovy on top. 167.—MOUSSE OF HAM. Whip half a pint of cream till quite stiff, then mix with a quarter of a pint of liquid aspic jelly and a few drops of carmine to make it a pale salmon colour, add a dust of coralline pepper and 5oz. of lean cooked ham that is cut up in very little dice shapes. Stir all together over ice until it begins to set, then put it in a Neapolitan ice mould and place this in the ice cave for about one hour and a half. When sufficiently iced, dip the mould in cold water, remove the covers, and turn the ham cream on to a clean cloth.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 168.—FRICASSEE OF PORK OR MUTTON CUTLETS. Cut 21b. of pork into neat pieces, throw them into boiling salted vater for two or three minutes, then take out and rub each with a lemon cut in half. Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, add one