487 Recipes. 661.—SALMON FARCIE. Cut some thin fillets of salmon and dip them in oil, and season with salt and pepper. Make a little forcemeat of finely minced XXL/jLJu uinci .. fsh. “Make'mto'small'thin rolls and roll up inside the fillet of salmon. Tie a band of buttered paper round each fry for twenty minutes in a pan with some herbs and a little stoca. Remove the paper, and serve on thin rounds of cooked cucumber. 652.—HADDOCK CUSTARDS. Ingredients: Some cooked dried haddock, two yolks of eggs, one -ill of milk, buttered toast or fried croutes, pepper 1and salt to taste grateri Parmesan cheese. Take a piece of cooked h^daock and break it up in very small flakes. Put in a saucepan a piece of butter, and stand it on the stove to melt. Beat up the yolks of two e-gs and add the milk and pepper and salt to taste, then pour into the melted butter, and cook slowly and wiUmut allowing it to boil When it begins to thicken add the haddock, and stir again until the mature is quite thick. Take some nice V buttered rounds of toast, or some fried croutes, and spread a little ot the mixture on each round, and sprinkle the top with grated Parmesan dieese Dish up on a paper, and serve very hot with sprigs ol parslei. 653.—HAKE A LA GRAND HOTEL. Cleanse the hake and cut it in slices about.2 inches,a,"c snrinkle these well with salt. Let them stay m the salt for about an hour, then wash them well in cold water and tie them up with tope Put about 2oz. of butter, a dust of coralline pepper, the Rice of a lemon and about two and a half wineglasses of white wine (this is for 31b. or 41b. of fish) in the bottom of as tow pan, lay the hake slices in this with a buttered paper over them, and let it all simmer at the side of the stove tor fifteen. minutes, then take the fish up with a slice and place it on a hot dish pour the sauce round it, with some more served m a sauce boat, Pand garnish the fillets’ all round the edge with salsRy or parsnip cut in julienne shreds, and sprigs of picked and blanchea chervil/ Sprinkle the centre of the fisli with a little lobster coral or coralline pepper. Serve very hot. . +ViPrn Salsify for Garnish.—Wash and peel the °j\em,m in shreds, and lay them in’ cold water and a little “ “5“ juice as you do them. Put them in a pan with enough boiling water seasoned with lemon juice and salt to cover theiu. bring the water to the boil, let them cook for an hour, then dram them, mix them with a little warm butter, coralline P®fPeL “f us®nd Parsnips for Garnish.—Peel and well wash the parsnips, m cut them crosswise in li-inch lengths; peel these round . only get the tender outside part, cut them m blanch them, strain, and rinse them, well m cold water. Put them in a pan with boiling water, a little salt, lemon. Boil gentlv for twenty to thirty nnnutes tatang caro the parsnip is kept well under water. Strain off the water, mix in a pat of warmed butter a tablespoon fill of ,%tl® X.‘ blanched parsley leaves. Put the. parsnip in pretty\Pf 1 nr,* h„rd here and there round the fish with the halves of the hot hard boiled eggs. These should be boiled for seven mmutes.-Mrs. A B. Marslui.ll.