SOUPS 626. —OYSTER SOUP Scald, drain, wash, and beard four dozen oysters, reserving their liquor in a pan. Put 4oz. of butter into a stewpan to dissolve over the fire, mix in 4oz. of flour, moisten with a pint and a half of good white stock or milk, season with nutmeg and a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of anchovy and half a pint of cream, stir over the fire for a quarter of an hour s gentle boiling, and then, having cut the oysters each into halves, pour the hot soup over them in the tureen. 627. —GIBLET SOUP. Take two sets of geese giblets, thoroughly cleansed and parboiled in hot water for ten minutes, drain and immerse them in cold water for five minutes, and then place them in a stewpan with a bunch of savoury herbs, carrots, celery, two onions stuck with cloves, two blades of mace, and six shallots. Fill up with about a gallon of water or stock, set the giblets thus far prepared to boil, skim them well, and allow them to boil very gently until they are nearly done, then strain off the stock, wash the giblets in cold water, drain, and cut them up, the wings and feet into inch and a half lengths and the livers into smaller pieces. Next, after the giblet stock has been strained into another stewpan and freed from grease, proceed to clarify it, and garnish it with forcemeat quenelles. 628.—CROUTE AU POT. Tie up 41b. of fresh leg of beef with tape, and lay it in a stewpan and cover it with about three quarts of light stock or water. Set the pan on the side of the stove, and when the stock comes to the boil skim it well, and add nice fresh vegetables, such as two carrots, one turnip, some strips of the heart of celery, two leeks, six or eight peppercorns, a little piece of parsnip, and a bunch of herbs tied in a piece of muslin with the spice. Add a little salt, one blade of mace, and two Jamaica peppercorns. Boil for five hours very slowly, then strain, and when cool remove the fat, take up the meat and vegetables carefully on a dish, clarify the stock with beef, &c., if required to be very rich, and servo with some of the beef cut in small square pieces, also the red part of the carrot and some of the other vegetables cut in dice shapes, and the crust of a PYench roll cut in rounds about 1$ inches in diameter, and either fried or crisped dry in the oven. These croutons can be handed round if preferred. The soup can also be served without being carified, the fat merely being removed and tho meat, vegetables, and crusts served as above. The rest of the meat can be used as a releve for dinner or lunch, garnished with the vegetables left over and a little of the stock from the pot poured round it.—Mrs. A. J3. Marshall. T I