Recipes. 427 out the flesh of the orange, and fill in with the following mixture, when cool. Serve iced, if possible. Melt loz. of platine in as 'little water as possible, add to it 2oz of suffr ^nninee iuice rubbed on the rind ot two oranges. Add one pint of orange> juic . Pour this mixture on to half a pint ot cream, a^nd beat it thoroughly Stir all over the tire for a few minutes to mix, but on no ^account boil it. Pour it into the orange baskets and set on ice. ,, , 317.—LITTLE RHUBARB CREAMS. 1 Prepare a pint of rhubarb puree. Add four sheets of Mar- shall’s gelatine and a few drops of carmine, and when beginning to set stir in a quarter of a pint of whipped double cream, i ut it into a forcing bag with a rose (large) pipe, fill some little jelly glasses, and sprinkle the tops with a little green sugar. RHUBARB CREAM. •2 Half a pint of rhubarb puree, half a pint of whipped cream, 3oz. of caster sugar, loz. of Marshall’s gelatine, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, a tew drops of cochineal. Whip the cream and stir the rhubarb puree to it very lightly. Dissolve the gelatine in a very little water, and when cool strain it to the cream, add the sugar and lemon juice and cochineal, and stir all lightly togelhe . Pour into a mould prettily decorated with pistachio nuts, and pul into a cool place to set. 3lb.—ARDNAX PUDDING. Pass six ripe bananas through a sieve. Make a custard of three eggs, half a gill of cream, and half a gill of milk, add to it the bananas, with the grated rind of half a lemon and a glass ol maraschino. Dine a dish with pastry, pour in the mixture, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. The top may be covered with whipped white of egg browned. 319.—LEMON BAVAROISE. Line a mould with well-made lemon jelly. Lay some fresh fruit (grapes or strawberries) in the bottom, and set them with more jelly. Make a mixture of 2oz. of chocolate, loz. of caster sugar, half a teaspoonful ol coffee essence, one teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and a good gill of fresh milk. Simmer for ten minutes. Add a small sheet of Marshall’s gelatine and the beaten- up yolks of two eggs. Keep the mixture on the fire till it thickens, but it must not boil. When cool put through a laminy and add one gill ot thickly whipped cream. Pour into the mould, onL half filling it. Make a ( ream with a pint ot milk, loz. of caster sugar, one small sheet of gelatine, two raw yolks of eggs. Mix over the fire, let cool, strain through a tammy Add a quarter of a pint of whipped cream and a lew drops of essence of lemon. Fill up the mould and sot on ice to cool. 320. EGGS AUX ABRICOTS. Take four new-laid eggs and boil them for ten minutes. Then plunge in cold water and shell them. Gut in halves and remove the yolks. Pound these in a mortar with a little butter and a spoonful or two of apricot jam, one or two sweet almonds, blanched