Recipes. 43' hour Then put into the skins six stoned brandied cherries in each and fill in with the other mixture. Serve with whipped cream on top. 338. - RHUBARB SNOW. Four sponge cakes, halt a pint of milk, four eggs, Joz. of sugar (caster), half a teaspoonful vanilla essence, six sticks rhubarb Stew the rhubarb with loaf sugar and a strip of lemon rind. Place the sponge cakes, broken into small pieces, in a glass dish Malm a custard with the yolks of four eggs and whites of two, the milk, sugar, aud vanilla. Pour this over the sponge cakes place the rhubarb oil the top, and pile up the whisked whites ot two eggs and dredge some caster sugar over, and bake in a moderate o\eu for three-quarters of an hour. 339.—BREAD MERINGUE Boil Hb. stale bread in milk, then heat thoroughly until smooth, add some grated lemon rind, the yolks of two eggs, sugar to tast . and 2oz. of butter. Mix all well together. Put in a piedisn, and bake till a light brown. Then spread some jam over the top. Whisk the whites of the eggs till stiff, and pile over the jam, and return to the oven for a few minutes, but watch that it does not turn brown. Ornament the top, and serve. 340.—CHOCOLATE MOUSSE. Grate a tlb. of chocolate and mix it with one and a half pints ot sweet milk and ioz. of gelatine. Thicken over the fire for about fifteen minutes. Add when cooler one gill of stiffly whipped cream and the whites of two eggs, beaten stiff, and one teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Pour into a mould, and set on ice to get very cold’ 341.—RUM SAUCE. Beat the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of rum. loz. ot caster sugar, over the fire until it all froths aud the liquid is well worked in Serve round plain steamed puddings. 342.—CANNON PUDDING. 1. Mix 2oz. of ground sweet almonds and one or two bitter almonds with two tablespoonfuls of strawberry jam. 2oz. of bread- crumbs, and two eggs, well beaten. Make into a firm mixture with some creamed butter. Form into balls, and bake for twenty minutes. Servo piled up like cannon balls with sifted sugar over. 2. Two ounces of breadcrumbs, two eggs, loz. of hitter almonds (ground), three large spoonfuls of jam, 2oz. of sweet almonds (ground), loz. of butter. Beat the eggs well, and mix all together with the butter, beaten to a cream. Half fill a buttered mould, and bake for twenty minutes in a gentle oven. 343.-MRS BROWN’S PUDDING. Four ounces of butter, 2oz. of sugar, half a pint of milk. 5oz. of dour, 2oz. of ground almonds, the juice of half a lemon. Place all the ingredients in a stewpan, and stir till the mixture boils and for three minutes after Mix in three eggs separately. Divide the mixture into small halls about an inch across. Spread a baking sheet with butter, and bake the balls to a light brown. Cut the balls across the top, and fill the open space with jelly, and serve hot or cold.