39° Menus for Every Day of the Year. 122.—VEGETABLE TIMBALE. Take a plain round mould and line it a Jin. thick with aspic jelly. Then line it with cooked peas, and fix them with aspic. Put a layer of picked and cleaned prawns in the bottom, and on them some more peas, and carrots and turnips which have bo- c cut out with a small pea cutter. Fix with aspic, and then repeat the prawns and peas, finishing the mould with aspic. A irttle salt should be sprinkled on each layer. Set on ice to cool. 123.—BRAIN AND TONGUE PUDDING. Line a pudding basin with suet crust. Cut the sheep’s tons^ - i in slices through the centre, lengthways, skin and wash then thoroughly, also the brains, and chop up the brains with a small stick of celery. Line the basin with the slices of tongue, fill in with brains and celery and layers of tongue, putting seme fine.v chopped onion and a little thyme and salt on the top. Cover with slices of hard-boiled egg. Place the top crust, and boil for three and a half hours. 124.—SAVOURY MUTTON AND RICE. Mince lib. of veal. Jib. of mutton, and put into a stewpan with a head of celery, two carrots, two onions, six whole peppercorn:-, one teaspoonful of salt, and 2oz. of butter, and a large cupful of water. Cover the pan, and simmer for two and a hall hours. Serve inside a border of rice. 125.—OYSTER ROLLS. Beard and clean twenty-four oysters, and lay on a plate with a little lemon juice, salt and pepper. Make a paste with the pounded breast of a cooked chicken and a little cream and salt, and spread this out in thin square strips. Lay three oysters lengthways on each strip, roll them up in it. Egg and bread- crumb the little roll, and fry in lard for six or seven minutes. Drain the little rolls, and serve hot with a little coralline pepptr over 126.—FISH CUSTARD PUDDING. A quarter of a pound of cooked fish, half a pint of ruiik.^ tour yolks of eggs, one teaspoonful of anchovy essence, two whites o! eggs, one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, a little coral.ine pepper, pepper and salt. Butter six dariole moulds ana uu-t "-tli chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Free the usli from skip and bone, and weigh it, chop rather finely, and half fid the mourns. Make a custard with the eggs and milk (beat up the eggs, whit - and yolks, in a basin, and add the milk1. Season with pepper, salt, and anchovy essence. Strain, and pour over the m-li. Place the mould in a tin with boiling water to reach haltway up the sides, cover with greased paper, and poach in the oven or on the stove until the custards are set. After about fifteen lninu.e-, turn out and serve hot. These are excellent made with cold 127.—CHICKEN CUTLETS. Chit us many fillets as possible from the breast ol a chicken, .nd press them. Cut them into cutlet b tapes, and musk the top a paste of foie gras and then with aspic cream Make some plum chicken cream from the lew, and set in a herder mould. 1 urn it out, and serve the cutlets leaning against it. h ill the centre with n salad, and pink and white fancy shapes of aspic cream