5l 1 Recipes. 768—LUXETTE SANDWICHES rouncL 76>).-CHEESE balls. m a s F^m into Uttll batls an inch .across, in the hand. Drop into boiling lard, and serve very hot with grated cheese over them. 770.—ANCHOVY AIGRETTES. Season some anchovies by laying them, ltoLt^ltte^nd f^rSinyboUinghfit for eight'minutes' Thin, narrow slices of ham are done in the same way. 771.—SAVOURY CANAPES. Remains of fish, finely shredded, and mixed to a paste with a hard volk of egg, some mayonnaise sauce, and two anchones. Mould the mixture in some small cases. Place in a dish on pieces of°brown bread, cut-thin (1 inch) and buttered, and serve with roughed aspic jelly and salad round. ,72.—ESCALOPES OF LUXETTE. Cut some hard-boiled eggs into slices lengthwise about ,a i inch thick and by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe force into the centre of each a little rose shape of Luxette. Garnish with little shreds of peeled raw cucumber or French ?herkin, a few French capers, and a sprig oi green tarragon. Sprinkle with a little raw chopped green parsley, and serve one to each guest on separate plates, if for hors d’oruvre, or if they are to be served for a savoury or ball supper, or for tennis, &c. arrange several on the same dish.— Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 773.—SAVOURY CAPERS. Prepare some croutes, warm some large capers in anchovy sauce, spread thinly over the croutes. and serve with gratecl yolk of egg ornamenting the centre of each. 774. SAVOURY FRITTERS. These can be made with the remains of any meat, bird, or dried fish. Pound the substance, and bind with white or brown sauce, according to the kind of substance, add pepper and salt, it wanted, and a few chopped capers. Make into flat cakes. Dip m batter and fry. Serve chopped parsley over it. 775. SAVOURY BASKETS. Prepare some very small pastry tartlets, and form a handle with a piece of thin twisted pastry to mako it look a small basket. Clean and pick some shrimps. Fry them for a couple of minutes in lard, sprinkling a little curry powder over them. Arrange them in the baskets. Sprinkle some fried parsley over them, and serve very hot.