Menus for Every Day of the Ytar 5°4 add a bunch of herbs, and some button onions and some bcm^j- out carrots and turnips. The fillet will require about two and a half hours’ gentle braising. The vegetable should be added about an hour and a half before dishing; the gravy should be re- plenished by more stock as it reduces. When the fl'.let is cookei dish it up with the vegetables in bunches. Strain in the gr . J and thicken a little, pour round the fillet, and serve very hot. 725.—CUTLETS A LA BEX. Put in a frying pan Jib. of calf’s liver one onion, a Weaf, two cloves, two carrots, and three slices of leanbacon. Fry all for ten minutes, or until the liver is quite cooked. Then remove the cloves, pound all in a mortar, and put through a sieve. Cook six mutton cutlets, and when cool mask them with the ai:.e paste, and put them in the oven to get hot. Brush over with glaze and dish round a macedoine of vegetables. 726.—ARTICHOKES A LA SIDNEY. Cut the chokes off some artichokes and stuff the bottoms with minced mushrooms and pounded ham, and a few drops of cream u moisten it, salt and pepper. Put a few slices of bacon m a Pan some mixed herbs, about lialf a pint of stock, and cook over a slow fire. 727.—ENTREE MILLAR. Twelve button mushrooms, two onions, six eggs, half a pint of crood gravy, loz. of butter, and pepper and salt. Mode : Slice, try. and drain the mushrooms and onions, boil the eggs hard and si.ce them (white and yolk separately), add the seasoning, and simmer the whole in gravy. Put m the sliced yolks last, and let them remain a minute only. Serve very hot, and garnish with thin rings of the whites of the eggs. 728.—CHICKEN WITH PRUNES. Truss a fowl for boiling, put it in a deep pan, and spread it thickly with butter. Lay therein a dozen pieces of raw ham some carrots, onions, parsley, and a little nutmeg, and peppeir and salt Cover it with a buttered paper, and braise it for one hour. When it is dished, place round the fowl, m groups, stewed nee. sultanas, and prunes. Pour a lightly seasoned curry sauce over the fowl. The fowl may be cut up in pieces and handed in an entree disli. 729 —OX TONGUE AND MUSHROOMS IN CASSEROLE Cut some slices from a cooked ox tongue and lay them in a little vinegar for ten minutes. Put in a casserole one sliced carrot, half a chopped onion, a bayleaf. salt and pepper Then la> the slices of ox tongue on top. Kry these for five minutes, add enough brown gravy to cover it all, and sunnier for twenty minui - Take out the ox tongue. Hub the gravy through a tine si.-ve. Replace them in the casserole, add two mushrooms to each dice of tongue. Warm up for six or eight minutes and serve, either in the casserole, or arrange the tongue in two rows on a dish, placing the mushrooms on top and round, and pour the same over. 730.—ARTICHOKES ST. CLOUD. Take six voting globe artichokes and boil them for Iwentv minutes. Then remove all the choke and put them into a sauce