395 Recipes. rissoles or mince—and return it to the casserole. Thicken with a little browned flour, and add two tablespoonfuls of port wine, the same quantity of lean minced ham, and a lib. of mushrooms previously saute in butter. Then return the chicken to the casserole, replace the lid, and continue cooking until thoroughly hot. Serve in the oasserole. 150.—TOMATO CUTLETS. 1. Cook six tomatoes, remove the insides and free from seeds, add to the puree six boned Bardines, one tablespoonful of bread- crumbs and the same of cream, and some salt. Mix well. Form into cutlet shapes, egg and breadcrumb, and fry a light brown. 2. Cut some large round tomatoes into thick round slices. Grate some breadcrumbs, cheese, and parsley, mix them, and dip the tomatoes in white of egg and this mixture. Fry a good colour. Serve hot with a grilled mushroom between every two slices of tomato 151. —PIG’S FEET A LA PARIS. Thoroughly clean some pig’s feet and put into a saucepan with cold water, salt, a few peppercorns, and a bayleaf, and boil very gently for four hours. Then split the feet, bone them, and fill the inside with chopped sage, onion, pepper, salt, and a little mustard. Tie them up and put a heavy weight on top.^ Leave them for one hour and a half. Then cut them across to form small flat rounds, dip in egg and breadcrumb, and fry in boiling fat for five minutes. Serve very hot with grilled tomatoes. 152. —STUFFED SPRING LEEKS. Blanch and stew six leeks until tender, split each leek open, and fill the inside with the following forcemeat. Fold up again and roll in egg and breadcrumb, and fry for ten minutes. Forcemeat.—Four tablespoonfuls of pounded chicken, pepper, salt, four minced mushrooms, and a fewr drops of gravy to bind the mixture. 153.—CURRIED SPINACH. Have ten tablespoonfuls of cooked spinach, well seasoned with salt and pepper. Make a curry paste with two tablespoonfuls of pounded cocoanut, l{oz. of curry powder, and a little water, place in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry all together. Add twelve large stoned raisins, the yolk of an egg, and the spinach. Warm thoroughly over the fire for fifteen minutes, adding a little butter if too solid. Put into well-buttered moulds, and stand in boiling water in the oven for ten minutes. Turn out and serve hot, garnishing with cocoanut piled on top. 154.—SHRIMP SALAD IN CUCUMBER. Clean and pick some shrimps. Peel a cucumber and cut into -iin. lengths. Cut these down lengthways through the centre and remove all seeds and pith. Pill the hollow with shrimps, about twelve in each, and put a stiff mayonnaise sauce over them. Serve in a bed of salad. 155.—COLD CHICKEN CREAMS AND GAME CREAMS. Take ilb. of the breast of chicken, put it through a sieve, pound it in a mortar with half a pint of chicken jelly, add salt and pepper to taste, mix with half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and whip