Recipes. 455 480.—BAVAROISE WITH PISTACHIOS. Take a fancy mould, and line it about an eighth of an inch thick with lemon jelly. Have a ilb. of pistachios put into cold water and let them come to the boil, strain them and rub them in a’cloth to remove the skins, cut them in slices lengthwise, and from the slices cut very fine shreds. Put these into a little stewpan with six tablespoonfuls of lemon jelly that is coloured a pretty bright green with Marshall’s sap green, mix together, and leave on ice till the pistachios are set, then take some up, and with the fingers press them all over the prepared mould. When the mould is completely covered inside, lightly mask over with more lemon jelly, and let this set, then fill up the mould with Bavaroise mixture, prepared thus : Bavaroise Mixture.—Take a good half pint of new milk, and put into it half a stick of vanilla pod and 2oz. of caster sugar. Let it infuse for about ten minutes, standing the pan in the bain marie; remove the pod, and dissolve in the milk aoz. of Marshall’s gelatine. Put three raw yolks of eggs into the basin, and stir the milk on to them. Return the mixture to the stew- pan, and stir on the stove till the contents thicken, but do not allow it to boil. Strain it through the tammy or strainer, and let it cool, then mix into it two large tablespoonfuls of orange- flower water, a wineglass of Silver Rays (white) rum, the same of Marshall’s maraschino or noyeau syrup, and half a pint of stiffly whipped cream. Stir well together, and pour into the ornamented mould. Put it away to get cold and set. When required, turn it out, as in foregoing recipe, on a dish on a paper or napkin, and serve for a sweet for dinner or luncheon, or for any cold collation.—Mrs A. B. Marshall. 481.—APPLE TART. Make a nice pastry with 4oz. of flour, 4oz. of butter, the yolk of one egg, half a teaspoonful of caster sugar, and a little salt, and moisten with milk. Make an open tart in a round tin li inches high, with straight sides. Stew lilb. of apples till tender. Melt lib. of apple jelly, and mix with the apples. Put into the open tart. Flavour with one glassful of Kimmel, and serve hot. 482.—CHOCOLATE CREAM. Mix 3oz. of ground chocolate with sugar to taste, and put into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of milk. Stir till thick, but do not let boil. When quite dissolved and mixed, take oil the fire and stir in the well-beaten yfflks of three eggs. Add loz. of gelatine which has been melted in ono gill of milk. Whisk in a quarter of a pint of cream, and when cool add one tea- spoonful of vanilla. Pour into a china mould, and let stand till next day. 483.—POUDING HOLLANDAISE. Warm a gill of milk, and add alb. of butter; when molted stir in four well-beaten eggs. Work this into lib of flour which has been sifted with two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add lib. of picked currants which have been dried in flour. Add 4oz. of caster sugar Butter a mould, and decorate with strips of angelica and candied peel, or cherries. Turn in the pudding, and bake in a quick ovon. Make a sweet sauce of eggs, milk,