407 Recipes. eggs and twenty-four cleaned and picked shrimps, some salt and some pepper, and lastly one gill of cream. Stir well over a fire. Butter a mould and garnish it inside with shrimps. Pour in the mixture and bake it for thirty minutes. Turn out and serve hot. 213.—STUFFED ARTICHOKES. Boil the artichokes and cut out the bottoms. Fill them with a forcemeat of chopped chicken and mushroom and cream, salt and pepper, and put them in a fair oven for fifteen minutes. Serve on a fried croute, very hot. 214.—DUCK SALAD AND ASPIC JELLY. Take the remains of a cold roast duck, cut it up into neat pieces, and mask each piece over with a green-pea puree, made stiff with a few sheets of Marshall’s gelatine and coloured with a few drops of Marshall’s sap green. Use when nearly cold. When set, mask over lastly with a little cool liquid aspic jelly, and put on ice until set. Dish up in a pile on ch' pped aspic jelly and garnish with salad that is seasoned with salad oil and Marshall_s (white) tarragon vinegar and a few drops ot chilli vinegar, (Hue blocks of aspic jelly, and oranges prepared os below. Arrange round the dish stamped-out rounds of cooked tongue or ham, masked with a little red-coloured aspic jelly Serve for an entree for dinner or luncheon. Oranges for Garnish.—Peel the oranges with a silver knife, divide them into their natural divisions, remove the pips and skin, sprinkle over a few drops of salad oil, tarragon and chilli vinegar, a little sugar (if liked), and a little Marshall’s coralline pepper. 215.—LOBSTER AU GRATIN. Remove all the meat from the shell, wash the shell of the head and tail, and with the scissors trim these pieces of shell into suitable-sized pieces. Cut the lobster into dire shapes. If any fish sauce remains from the previous day it m >y be used with advantage; but failing this, reduce a good veloute, and when the sauce is thick enough add the lobster meat and a'l the spawn. Season this with salt, coralline pepper, a few dr ps of essence of anchovies, and a very little Worcester sauce. The mixture should now be of the consistency of croquette meat. Fill each of the pieces of shell (not too full) with the fish, pressing it lightly in, sprinkle some lightly coloured brown breadcrumbs over, add a few small pieces of fresh butter on the top of each piece, and place in the oven for a few minutes. Serve as hot as possible on a napkin with fried parsley. 216.—CHEESE SAUCE. Put loz. of butter and 2oz. of flour in a pan and fry, mix with a, cupful of stock, stir till it boils, add two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese and the same of cream. Let it come to the boil, then strain, and pour it over the required number of boiled Spanish onions. 217.—GALANTINE OF PORK. 1. Take for this a lean boned loin of pork. Trim away any excess of fat, lay it out as flat as possible, and put a layer of strips of kidney, truffle, and hard-boiled eggs. See that the pork is well covered with this, sprinkle with salt and pepper and a squeeze of