Recipes. 445 420.—APPLES A L’ELEANOUR. Peel and core number of apples required. Place them in a pie dish, half cover with water. They should not touch each other. Fill the centres with coarse brown sugar, two cloves, and on top a little red-currant jelly. Cover with a dish and bake, removing each apple the moment it is done. Place them m a glass dish, take the remaining syrup and strain it, add a little lemon rind, and Joz. of Marshall's gelatine, and simmer till clear. Colour with some cochineal, and strain into a jug, adding one wineglass- full of maraschino- When cool pour over the apples carefully and serve very cold with preserved violets or rose leaves on each apple. „ „ „ 421.—WHIPPED JELLY. Melt 11 oz. of Marshall’s gelatine and three lumps of sugar in one pint of water over the tire. Add three glasses of sherry. Place in a dish and whip for fifteen minutes, or until the jelly is a thick froth. Pour into a mould and let it set on ice. 422, - APPLE SLICES. 1. Peel and core 2lb. of nice large apples, and cut them into slices half an inch thick, and put them in an earthenware basin with a lid. Pour a thick syrup of sugar and water over them, just covering them, and leave them covered up for three days Then place them very gently in a pan, with the juice and grated rinds of two lemons, ljlb. of preserving sugar, one wineglassful of brandy, and 2oz. of bruised ginger over them. Boil all very gently, so as not to break the apples, for one and a quarter hours, or less if the apples are soft and clear. APRICOTS IN JELLY. 2. Have a tin of apricots, cut six of them in half. Melt loz. of gelatine in half a pint of syrup, add one wineglassful of curacoa, and line a mould with this jelly; arrange four halves of apricot nicely in the bottom of the mould, set them with jelly. Then till the mould with layers of apricot and jelly in turn. 423. —BAKED APPLES. Remove thoroughly the core of the apples, place in the baking tin, fill the centres with brown sugar, and put a large piece of red currant jelly on top, and bake. 424. —SWISS MADELEINES. Prepare a batter of Jib. of flour. Jib. of caster sugar, two eggs, quarter of a teaspoonful of baking powder. Put it into plain moulds and bake in a moderate oven. When done turn out the little cakes and roll them in melted apple jelly, and then in ground suet almonds, and serve hot with cream. 425. —ORANGE CUSTARDS. Squeeze six oranges dry, remove the pips, and sweeten to taste. Stir this over a fire till quite warm, then let cool, add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and enough double cream to make a good heavy mixture. Stir all together over a fire till thick, and serve in a glass dish with whipped cream and some pieces of orange on top.