489 Recipes. buttered peter over X,HtaVVr«5 Sfin SSTS then take them up and pie0Pes, and mask the top of each fillet into three or f°ur Garnish with little sprigs of each with pink mayonnaise aspio^ t* them with ijqlud aspic chevnl and strips of red oh 11^ , Httle fillets neatly, and jelly, and when thisnspic8 Gar“sh with lettuce cut or broken dish on a border or aspic. cucumber (or use a macedoine into small Pieces, b,ee*f-<J?t' tV.;ck mayonnaise and some chopped of cooked vegetables) with a.thick dressed fish, or for second A. B. Marshal.. 660 -OYSTER SOUFFLES. it boils, add the cut-up oy8.t®^? { „„h till very stiff, and add large whites of egg?and a pin lt^ lQgether> and fill sonic this to the above boiled mixture. ivt aIK[ dried (china little paper cases which have bb®n 3 ^ ded breadcrumbs on cases can be used if liked) put * tew -°™w“ butter to keep it steamed instead of baked.-Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 660a.—WHITEBAIT ON TOAST. Toast some very thin pieces of brown bread, and butter them. Put ft saueeze of lemon over the toast and pile devilled white- st on eaeh pieceJTnd serve very hot. The toast should be in neat rounds, one for each person, and a thin slice of lemon top of the whitebait. 661.—DRESDEN FATTIES. Take a few slices of ham, chicken, and any cold meat, pass through a meat machine, and then pound it well with a small piece of butter. Put all into a saucepan with enough stock to well moisten it, bring to the boil, and then pass through * wire sieve, return this into the pan and mix a small spoonful of Brown and Poison’s cornflour, thicken the puree, and season to taste. Have some nicely mashed cold potatoes ready, and make up into little croustades sufficient to hold one spoonful of puree. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a nice golden brown in hot lard Do not put the hot puree m till required, as the cases should be kept crisp. Decorate each one with a few hot macedoine vegetables. 662._LOBSTER MAYONNAISE. Cut a boiled lobster into neat pieces, steep them in a basin with a little vinegar, oil, pepper, and salt for ten minutes ^>rain the pieces, and di«h on a pile of seasoned lettuce, which has been cut in long shreds. Mask it completely with a rich mayon- naise sauce. Garnish with fillets of anchovy and chopped aspic. Mix together in a basin the raw yolk of one egg, naif a tea-