Recipes. 497 693.—STUFFED CHICKEN. B„. lb. chicken and a.u. « wt““UT=«i.n?Vd HS^«SkSVSSa“^¥S=d^ Remove from tHe . tire, and add the yolk ot an egg and a tew drops of lemon juice, and use. 694.—RABBIT CREAMS. Take lib. of rabbit, scrape it and pound it; mix with half a pint of thick Bechamel sauce that has been tammied, a Pinch of salt a tiny dust of coralline pepper, and one raw egg, mixed up well together. Have some moulds well buttered and sprinkled with a little chopped ham or tongue; then fill each mould up with the prepared mixture, smooth them over with a wet, warm knife place them in a saute pan on a fold of paper, and with a little boiling water in the bottom of the pan, and let tnem poach for about fifteen minutes in the oven with the cover on the pan. Dish UP on a border of potato or farce en couronne, and garnish the centre with any nice green vegetable, such as peas, or mace- doine, or points of asparagus. Pour veloute sauce over and round the base of the dish, and serve hot.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 695.—CURRIED EGGS. Boil some eggs for quite fifteen minutes, cut them in half, and arrange on a dish, standing them on the uncut end Pour over them the following sauce, and heap little piles of desiccated cocoanut at the corners. Slice an onion into a pan with loz. ot butter, and a sliced apple, and fry for twenty minutes. Add one tablespoonful of cocoanut, loz. of curry powder, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, a bunch of herbs, and one pint of stock. Cook steadily for half an hour, pass through a tammy, and use. 696.—SWEETBREADS WITH PEAS. Braise a sweetbread and cut it when cooked into slices 1 inch thick. Lay these in a pan with chopped mushrooms, and fry for fifteen minutes, arrange in a ring on a dish, alternately sweetbread and a slice of fried tomato, and fill in the centre with peas piled high, sprinkle a little salt, sugar, and pepper over the peas, and serve very hot. 697.—STUFFED KNUCKLE OF VEAL. Bone the meat carefully. Lay out flat. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Make a stuffing of shredded bacon, tongue, an egg. some parsley, herbs, and onion. Spread on the meat, roll up tightly, and bako in a good oven. Serve with braised leeks if possible. 698.—SAVOURY CHICKEN. Cut a raw, tender, picked, and cleansed chicken into neat joints. Put it into a stewpan, with enough cold water to cover K K