416 Menus for Every Day 0/ Ihe Year. 259.—TOMATO CUPS. Skin six medium-sized firm tomatoes, cut them in halves, remove the insides carefully, which must be done with a sharp knife. II they do not stand, cut a little bit off the bottom. Dip them into a mixture of salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and sprinkle them with finely chopped parsley; fill them with plainly boiled rice. Then pound six sardines, that have been skinned and boned, with 2oz. of butter, two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, a sprinkle of salt and pepper. Put this into a bag with a small rose pipe, and form a border round the edge of the tomato cups. Sprinkle the tops with chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Serve as a cold savour;-. Turnips can be served in like manner. 260.—PORK CUTLETS A LA PATRICK. Take some neat cutlets from a loin of pork, and season them with a little chopped sage, salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Mow brush _ lightly with butter, and broil them over a clear fire for five minutes each side. Then place them in a stewpan, add a dozen button mushrooms, a small chopped onion, a good-sized tomato, and one apple (peeled and cored and lightly chopped'. C vet with some good stock, and cook gently for an hour. Take out the cutlets and keep hot while preparing the sauce. Put the onions, mushrooms, &c., all through a fine wire sieve with the gravy the cutlets were cooked in. Return to the pan, and flavour to taste with salt and pepper, and, if necessary, thicken with a little corn- flour. Now dish the cutlets up on..a border of any nice green vegetable, with potato straws in the centre, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and garnish the dish with quarters of cooked apple. Serve very hot. 261.—BEETROOT CUPS. Cook some small round beet till tender. Hollow out the centres, and fill with chopped remains of braised fillet of beef. Put a few drops of Worcester sauce and also of tomato ketchup in each, a little grated cheese on top, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes. Serve on toast or on tomato slices. 262.—GALANTINE OF PHEASANT OR TURKEY IX TERRINE. Bone the pheasant, season it with pepper and salt, and farce it with farce prepared as below. Tie it up in the form of a galantine in a well-buttered cloth, and cook it in well-flavoured stock with a bunch of herbs, carrot, onion, turnip, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, and five or six cloves, for one and a quarter to one and a half hours, according to size. Remove it from the cloth, tie it up again to tighten it, and put it to press till quite cold and firm Place it in the jar or tin in which it is to bo served, mask over the top with white chaudfroid sauce, and let this set. Put some of the chaudfroid sauce before it is set into a forcing bag with 3 rose pipe, and with it garnish the galantine in any pretty desicn. Plaee. a little chopped aspic jelly here and there, and serve for dinner or any cold collation. 262a.- CROUSTADE A LA YENISE. Cut a round of bread about 4 inches deep, and with a sharp knife remove the centre, leaving a bottom of '.in. and the same at the sides. Fry this in boiling fat until it is crisp Fill it with