478 Menus for Every Day of the Year. 604.—SEVILLE ORANGE PUDDING. Two Seville oranges boiled, cut up finely, and the pips removed two eggs whipped for ten minutes, 2oz. of butter, twentv- • almonds blanched and split in two, and half a break fas tout. <■ ; caster sugar. Warm thoroughly, mixing one by one together ' - sugar, almonds, butter, and orange pulp. When all is thoroughly melted, add half a wineglass of liqueur. Turn out and place to cool. Add the eggs when cold. Bake all in a good oven for f minutes. 605.—SCOTCH PANCAKES. One and a half ounces of butter, one good tablespoonful of flour, two eggs (leave out one white), a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of nice fresh milk. Beat all together, fry with- out butter or fat, roll neatly, and serve with sifted sugar over. These are very nice if carefully fried. Start with a hot pan, and fry in quick succession. 606.—ORANGE FOOL. The fool is made of four eggs heaten to a froth, with the iuioe of four large Tangerines, pressed out in a lemon squeezer and a gill of thick cream, with sugar to taste. Stir this in a jug placed in a saucepan of fast-boiling water or in a double boiler, and stir until it thickens, without letting it boil. When cool, pour into custard glasses, with a little grated rind showered over the top. 607.—SWEET VOL AU VENT Put into a stewpan loz. of fine flour, one raw yolk of egg, 2oz. of butter, loz. of caster sugar, one and a half gills of cold milk. Stir these over the fire till the mixture boils, then flavour with a few drops of vanilla, mix into it one tablespoonful of whipped cream, and use in a vol au vent case. 608.—IMPERIAL PUDDING. Make some rich suet paste, and line a basin thinly. Stone lib. of French plums, and put a layer in the basin. Spread some golden syrup on two sides of a piece of paste and lay it on the prunes, then put another thick layer of prunes and another of paste and syrup, and so on. finishing with paste a little thicker than the rest. The layers of paste should be as thin as possible. Squeeze the juice of one lemon over all before the last piece of paste is put on. Steam this pudding for three and a quarter hours, and serve with a prune sauce. 609.—CREAM PEACHES. Have some tinned large peaches. Stand each on the round side on a thin slice of lemon jelly to form a cup. Mix five table- spoonfuls of syrup with one of maraschino, and fill the cups of the peaches. Whip up some cream very stiffly and flavour with vanilla, and pile high on the peaches. 610.—TREACLE AND APPLE TART. Make an apple tart in the ordinary way, but add to every pound of apples used one full tablespoonful of golden syrup, one teaspoonful of brandy, and the rind of a quarter of a lemon, besides cloves. Serve hot with a sauce of slightly melted golden syrup.