■uy Recipes. the soaked cakes in the bottom of a dish. Place the peaches on top. Pour over any remainder of liqueur and jelly. Cover with whipped cream, and ornament with pieces of peach cut in strips. 268.—FERN PUDDING. Take the weight of three eggs in butter and flour, the weight of two in sugar, three tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam, half a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Beat the butter to a cream add the sugar, flour, jam, also the eggs (well beaten), and the soda. Beal all together for ten minutes, steam two and a half hours, and serve with or without custard sauce. 269.—FANCY PUDDING (SAGO). Take a Jib. of sago, well cleaned, grate a tablespoonful of lemon rind on to it. Put it into a saucepan containing one and a half pints of new milk, a good pinch of salt, sugar to taste, and let the sago swell slowly over a medium fire. Add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and when well mixed add the whites, beaten stiff. Place in a well-buttered mould and bake for an hour. Servo witli a wine sauce. 270. FRENCH SOUFFLE. Put the yolks of three eggs into an enamelled saucepan with -lib of castor sugar and the grated rind and juice of two and a half lemons. Whisk them over a slow fire till about as thick as honey, then allow it to cool. Soak Joz. of gelatine in half a gill of water stir till dissolved. When it has cooled a little add to the lemon mixture. Have ready in a basin half a pint of whipped cream, pour in the lemon, and mix them well together. When cool but not set, stir in very lightly the whisked whites of the three eggs pour it into a prepared souffle mould. It should come about lin above the top of the souffle mould, so as to give it the appearance ot having risen. Sprinkle with ratafia crumbs, and serve. 271.—TREACLE SPONGE PUDDING. Quarter of a pound of suet (finely chopped), Jib. of flour, half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda or a whole teaspoonful of Marshall’s baking powder, Jib of treacle, a gill of milk, and candied peel to taste. Mix the dry ingredients first thoroughly, add the milk and an egg if liked (but it is very good without), and steam for five hours. 272.—STUFFED ORANGES. in»il!LSOnR -Vr5?gcs acr°8s with “ sharp knife and scoop out the tender '4!°Z>0fin*qe °r,uag? V5mt of milk until quite tender. Add ^oz. of gelatine the strained juice of two oranges, one gill of whipped cream, and the whites ot two eggs thoroughly boH Pour in?1 tl' tQ the f°r two threc minftes, bSt not to (i; ur, mto tbo orange halves, and set to cool. Serve with a. thin slice of orange over the top, removing seeds and skin and pith as much as possible, and with a small pile of whipped cream in the centre. Make a handle of angelica, PP ln 273.—ALMOND TART. Make some very rich puff pastry, roll it out, and line with it an open tart tin, previously well buttered. Bake a pale brown in the sUrnintonitthfhemv'oU-tlmf httlf a bjeakfastcuplul of sugar and stir into it the yolks of three eggs. Stir and beat well until the E E 2