506 Menus for Every Day of the Year. teacupful of cream and a little flour and pepper. Boil for twenty minutes, and add a little salt just before serving. 735.—CHUTNEY EGGS. Take required number of hard-boiled eggs. Cut them across the centre, remove the yolks, and mix them into a thick paste with some cream and mango chutney, and replace in the whites, and serve hot on a croute of bread. 736.—HERRING ROE TOAST. 1. Prepare a long croute. Lay a strip of soft herring roe along it, and half an anchovy split in two on the top of the roe. Ser e very hot with a slight dusting of red pepper. HERRING ROE ON TOAST. 2. Take some soft herring roes. Prepare a croute. place the rces in a circle or cross on the croutes, and bake. Serve with a few drops of lemon on the roes and a couple of capers, or sliced oli- es for ornamentation. Preparatory to using the roes they should be thoroughly and carefully cleansed in warm water, then laid in boiling water for four minutes. Some lemon juice may be added to the boiling water. 737.—TOMATO CANAPES. Prepare a croute of fried bread. Cut some small tomatoes in half and fry them. Place them on the croute, and pile some scrambled eggs, containing a few drops of anchovy essence or pounded anchovies, on the tomatoes. Put a little chopped parsley on top, and serve very hot. The pounded anchovy can also be thinly spread on the tomato under the egg. 738.—BOMBAY TOAST. Fry the required number of croutes. When cold spread with a paste of pounded pheasant and cream. Chop some capers, and lay in a thick line across the pheasant paste. On one-half put grated yolk of hard-boiled egg, on the other half put grated white of hard-boiled egg, and serve. 739.—DAISY EGGS. Arrange hard-boiled eggs on rounds of brown bread spread with Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s Luxette, to look like a daisy. The yolks rubbed through a sieve for the centre, the whites cut into lengths for the petals. 740.—HAM TOAST. Chop up some lean ham and warm in milk. Slice a tomato and fry. Have some very hot rounds of buttered toast ready. Lay a slice of tomato on each and pile on the chopped ham, and serve. 741.—CHEESE TARTLETS. Line some small pastry tins with pastry. Mix 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese with about loz. of butter, adding mustard, salt, and pepper to taste, also an egg thoroughly beaten. Fill the tins three-quarters full wilh the mixture. Bake, and serve hot. 712.—ANCHOVY TOAST Prepare some croutes of toast. Place some finc'ly chopped oli\ m the centre, and curl round it an anchovy, made hot Place •