3«o. Menus for Every Day o/ the i'eur. sauce. Then take as many nicely cooked points of bottle* asparagus as will fill the baskets, and place them evenly in 'car must be taken that the points are not too long, or they will - vei balance). Dish up on bed of nicely shred lettuce or cress, -.hie. has been marinaded and sprinkled with mignonette pepper. an- serve for a luncheon dish or savoury. Ccleriac can be u-ed 11 place of asparagus if a fresh vegetable is preferred 80.—LOBSTER HOT Shred the meat of a lobster, add salt, pepper, and a very fex breadcrumbs, and the yolk of an egg. Mix all, and place in flat baking dish. Pour two tablespoonfuls of cream over, an- bake for twenty minutes, and serve, decorating the dish with th claws. &c., and the coral in the centre. 81.—CELERY AU GRATIN. Cook some sticks of celery till tender, cut into squares. La in a well-buttered baking dish with layers of grated Parmesat cheese and some cream, and bake till brown. 82.—VIENNESE STEW. Take a good-sized piece of beef, and, after well beating an- y-ashing it, put it in a sufficiently large basin, cover it will cooking wine, and let it remain for a night. In the morning tak out the meat, lard it with strips of bacon, season it with powdere- cloves, cinnamon, and salt; lay it in a stewpan with the wine, faggot of parsley, one of sweet herbs, half an onion, and a ciov of garlic. Boil slowly with the stewpan closely covered till th meat is cooked. 83.—FISH PUDDING. Out up some brill or cod into small pieces. Line a basin witl paste, and quarter fill with a layer of the fish, then a layer of hare boiled egg, a layer of sliced tomato, some pepper and salt; fill u; with fish, finish with a layer of sliced tomatoes, cover with paste and boil for two hours, tied in a cloth same as steak and kidne' pudding. Serve in the basin. 84.—VERMICELLI A LA CLAUDE. Boil three tablespoonfuls of vermicelli in one pint of milk fo fifteen minutes, then adcl three well-beaten eggs; beat all togethe with a gill of cream, salt and pepper. Butter a mould and nn it with small pieces of ham and tongue, pour in the mixture. an< bake it for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out, and serve wit1 tomato sauce. _ 85.—KIDNEYS A LA DIEPPE. Break up 4oz. of macaroni into small pieces and cook in boilini water till tender; skin three mutton kidneys, remove the fat, am cut each into six slices. Season with salt, cayenne, and mince- herbs. Fry the kidneys in butter for two minutes, then slev them in a quarter of a pint of gravy and a quarter ot a pint o tomato ketchup for ten minutes. Lay them on a small fiat dish place the macaroni over them, and pour the gravy over all ru a very little grated Parmesan cheese over, and serve very hot. 86.—SPINACH AND POACHED EGGS. Cook some spinach, chop it, and drain thoroughly. Make int- stiff rounds on a dish, leaving a hollow in the centre. Fill tin