Menus for Every Day of the Year 392 crisp rolls of bacon, place round the dish, and serve for second course or luncheon dish. 133.—COLD SWEETBREAD. ASPIC SALAD Line a plain border mould with aspic jelly, and then ornaruer.: it with rows of coohed green peas set in aspic. Cook a small sweet- bread and pound it to a paste, add to it. salt and pepper, half a glass of sherry, and one teaspoonfnl Liebig's extract of .meat Dissolve one small sheet of Marshall's gelatine in half a pint <v cream and add to the mixture. Rub all through a fine Ele'Je- r'n- when cool pour into the mould. Serve on a bed of salad orna- mented with shapes in pink aspic. Colour some aspic, and pour if out thinly on a dish, then stamp out the fancy shapes. 134. -LITTLE FISH SALADS. To every teacupful of shredded boiled codfish add one table- spoonful of mayonnaise sauce, and a tomato cut into dice F1.!. little paper cases with the mixture, and pile finelv cut sa.ad on top, pour a few drops of the mayonnaise over.. Place a small, fancy shape of beetroot or cucumber on an olive, and s.ice of tomato on top, and set ready on a tray. Paper cases, 21 inches, are 2s. a gross. 135.—MAYONNAISE OF SHRIMPS. Pick and clean 100 shrimps, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, and mix gently with finely chopped endive and lettuce, and thin rings of radish, if possible, and pile high m a dish. l>o not swamp the shrimps in the salad.. Pour round a good mayon- naise sauce, and ornament the top with slices oi tomato. 136.—RABBITS IN CASSEROLE. Clean the rabbits and cut into ioints. Dredee them with flour and fry in butter in a casserole till they are browned all over Drain off the butter, and put on top of the rabbit ’-lb. of rump steak cut in slices, a blade of rnace. twelve cloves, six peppercorns, one sliced onion, two small carrots cut up. and some herbs. Just cover all with water. Place the top on the casserole and stew till the rabbit is tender. Then remove the rabbit and continue stewing the meat and vegetables ti . the P-ravv is rich. Strain the gravy, keep out the meat, and return ,he former to the casserole, add a tenspeonful of browned flour, two talffesnoonfuls of lean, minced 1mm the same of port wme ■ h ot small mushrooms. Place the rabbit in the casserole replace the lid and cook until thoroughly hot. Serve in the casserole. Chicken can he served in the same way, only not cut up into joints. 137._ASPTC PRAWN SALAD. Prepare some small fancy tins and line them with pale asric jellv. Put five small prawns or one Dublin Bay prawn, in each and fill UP with aspic. Set aside till cold turn ™t and dish them on a. bed of salad with plenty- of sliced tornados and the following dressing very lielitly sprinkled over all - One teaspoonful of fine salt, the same of made mustard, salad oil. and Worcester »nuc0. Mix thoroughlv. and bring to required con- sistency with about two ten.spoonfuls of vinegar.