421 Recipes. 281.—APPLE RICE. Cut in half and core eight apples and stew till tender, keeping the halves from breaking. Boil Jib. of rice in one and a half breakfastcupfnls of milk, with a teaspoonfnl of sugar, half a grated nutmeg, and the peel of half a lemon. Place the apples in the centre of a, dish and pour over them the fruit sauce given below. Put the rice round them, and on the rice put stiffly whipped cream, and serve cold. Sauce.—Melt, a small teacupful of apricot jam in a saucepan, add tile juice of half a lemon, stirring it all the time, and two teaspoonfuls of red currant jelly. When sufficiently thin use, pouring it over the apples while hot. 282. NORMAN PUDDING. Warm half a pint of milk, and pour it over half a breakfast- cupful of breadcrumbs and two tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoa- nut. Stir in loz. of butter and sugar to taste (usually one tea- spoonfnl). Beat in two eggs and the juice and rind of one orange, and bake the mixture for little less than one hour in a shallow dish. Serve with a meringue on top. 283 — CRANBERRY JELLIES. Wash, drain, and prick the cranberries. Cover with cold water, and boil once; then put them into a jar, and simmer, to extract the juice. Strain through a jelly bag, and to each quart of juice add 11b. of sugar, and bring slowly to the boil. If required lor a sweet, add one large leaf of Marshall’s gelatine ten minutes before taking off the tire. Pour into a mould ami set on ice If required for garnishing sweet dishes or to be served with meats, let it boil slowly till stiff enough. Try a little on a plate, and pour into jars to keep. 284.—BREAD FRITTERS. Cut some small round slices of light bread half an inch thick- soak them m sherry. Egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a pale, crisp brown. Put jam or stewed fruit on each slice and some whipped cream round it. 285.—VERMICELLI PUDDING. /T1! te,ac,UDf"J? of vermicelli and cover with boiling milk, and let it stand for fifteen minutes. Then add lib of stoned raisins, three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar Stir all wviam1thcn t?gf}I{er wil1' two tablespoonfuls of any jam. Boil for one and a half hours in a well-buttered mould. 286 —GINGER SOUFFLE Stir to a smooth paste over the fire 4oz. of butter. 4oz of flour -pj;, °j c.afd°r 9«*ar, 'loz. of preserved ginger cut into dice the mdk rmd of half a lemon gradualiy adding n pint of'new rmiK. Ada the beaten yolks of tour eggs also the white* tXtf^inrde"4 t08e<,ler- Pil1 * ^ and bailor , , 287.- RATAFIA CREAM. Place 'fiveUWe°^nmnr 8fate the rind,,of two lemons into a basin. \Ti? Ve , rffe lumps of sugar m the basin strain the iniee of the two lemons over them, and stir till dissolved Add'one mnt of cream and half a pint of sherry, also Toz o?leaf gelatine