Recipes. 423 Put *loz. of flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, put rn the yeast, diluted with a little tepid milk, and work to a smooth dough. Cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place. Put the remainder of the flour in a large baain, make a well in the centre, add the salt and sugar, work in the eggs, add a little milk, and beat for fifteen minutes. When the dough has risen add it to the abo7e, knead well for another fifteen minutes, put in the cieam just tepid, and mix thoroughly. Have ready six to eight well-buttered small, or one large, baba moulds (these are cylinder- shaped copper moulds). Let it rise for fifteen minutes in a warm Place, then bake in a moderately heated oven. When done, turn out on to a sieve and baste well with hot Marshall’s Silver Rays (white) rum syrup. Dish up, and pour rum sauce over, and serve very hot. 291.—ST. JOHN’S PUDDING. Line a pudding dish with stale cake and pour sherry ovor it, (lien spread preserved apricots or any kind of jam over the cake. Make a batter of the yolks of four eggs, a lib. of sugar, a Jib. of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Beat the ingre- dients together, first beating the yolks light. Add the mixture (o the cake, and then bake it. When it is cold put the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, with pulverised sugar, and seasoned with vanilla, over the pudding. Return it to the oven until it is a light brown. Serve it hot in the pudding dish. 295.—MOUSSELINE PUDDING. Take ioz. of pounded sugar, loz. of fresh butter, the rind pi one lemon and the juice of two, with the yolks of ten eggs. Mix together in a saucepan, and stir on a slow fire until quite hot; then strain the mixture into a basin, and amalgamate lightly with it, as one would for a souffle, the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Pour into a well-buttered mould and steam for twenty minutes, and serve with jam or fruit sauce. The water should boil when the pudding is put in, and kept boiling all the time. 296. APRICOT FRITTERS. Soak some evaporated apricots in water for twenty-four hours. Flatten out the apricots, dip into a thick batter, pick them up on a skewer, and drop into a pan of very hot fat. Turn them, and fry on both sides. Batter.—Put 11b. of flour in a basin with a little salt, add two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and mix: slowly pour in half a pint of tepid water. Let it stand for one hour. When required for use, whip the whites of three eggs to a very stiff' froth, and add at the last moment before using. 297. CHESTNUT MERINGUES. Make some meringue oases, and on each half put one teaspoon- ful of stewed fruit or fresh fruit. Pile soma very stiffly whipped cream on top. Cook some chestnuts, put them through a sieve, and make into a paste with a little cream. Force the chestnut through a small pipe, and almost cover the cream with a lattice of chestnut very closely put on. Ornament witli rosettes of pink cream.