437 Recipes. 375.—PRUNE TART ~ Fill it with large atoned stewed prunes. P^ove^a glassful of claret, and cover with whipped cream. 376.—MARCH PUDDING. for one hour. ^ LEM0N CREAMS The remains of a stiff lemon jelly can be used, or maJke half a Hint of fresh jellv Melt and add one gill of thick cream and six drops of vanilla essence, and the same of essence of lemon. Mix we°F over the fire for half a minute, pour into a mould or small moulds, and set on ice to cool. 378.—ALMOND PUFFS. Prepare some good flake pastry, and cut into rounds or three- cornered pieces. Put some slices of banana on half the number of rounds, cover with another round of pastry, and pinch the edges together Cover the tops with almonds, coa,rselv chopped, and sprinkle thickly with caster sugar. Bake a nice brown m a good oven 379, LITTLE PUDDINGS A LA GRANDE BELLE. Take some small dariole moulds and butter them well with cold butter, then sprinkle the bottoms with shredded pistachio nuts and the sides with little shreds of mixed peel, cut up m the same way. Partly fill up the moulds with freshly made brown bread- crumbs Then prepare a custard with three whole raw eggs mixed with half a pint of single cream, one tablespoonful of maraschino syrup l}oz. of caster sugar, and a pinch of ground cinnamon, which will be sufficient for eight medium-sized moulds Mix up well together and strain into the moulds, which should stand in a stewpan with a piece of paper underneath them, and add boiling water to about three-parts of their height. Watch the water re- boil, then draw the pan to the side of the stove, and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out, and serve hot or cold, with an apple puree round the base.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 380.—ORANGE CHARTREUSE. Line a plain charlotte mould thinly with lemon or orange flavoured jelly, remove the peel and pith from five or six oranges and cut out the pulpy parts of their natural divisions free from the skin; blanch, peel, and cut into shreds some pistachio nuts and mix them with just a little of the lemon jelly, coloured with a little sap green, and let it remain till the shreds are set together with the jelly. Prepare in a similar manner some shreds of un- crystallised cherries, with jelly coloured red with liquid, carmine; arrange the orange, pistachio, and cherries alternately inside the mould till it is entirely covered, and set the fruit with a little more jelly. Prepare a vanilla bavaroise mixture and divide it into three parts, colouring two of them respectively red and green with Marshall’s sap green and liquid carmine. Leave the other white, and flavour them with three different flavours, such as silver rays (white) rum, maraschino, and noyoau; pour them into