521 Recipes. a little salt and pepper. Peel the remainder of the shrimps, and mix them with very stiffly whipped cream and a little finely chopped cucumber. Pile this on the rounds of bread, and serve with a salad. 842.—DEVILLED HERRING ROE. Remove the soft roes from some herrings and warm them in butter, 'Sprinkle cayenne pepper over them. Fry some croutons and spread a little mustard on them. Curl the roes round on the croutons, put chopped caper in the centre, and serve very hot. 843 —CHEESE SOUFFLES. One and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one gill of cream, half a gill of aspic jelly, a grain of cayenne pepper, and a little made mustard. Whip the cream very slightly and stir 111 the cheese, and season to taste with salt. Whisk the jelly very slightly, and mix it very lightly to the cream. Pour into souffle cases, and when cold decorate with chopped aspic and a small sprig of parsley. 844.—SARDINE SAVOURY. Cut some thin slices of brown bread and butter, spread on this a rather thin layer of sardines that have been through a sieve, and on this put a layer of garden cress. Put one slice on the other, press together, and cut in rounds. Garnish with cress and beetroot cut in any shape. 845. —ANCHOVIES EN SURPRISE. Make a clioux paste with one gill of water, 2oz. flour, loz. of butter, loz. Parmesan cheese, one egg, and one yolk. Roll up the water, adding a pinch of salt and the butter. Sat m the flour, stir vigorously over the fire, let it cool, add the cheese work in the eggs, force out in little heaps on to a greased baking sheet. Bake a nice brown. Slit the souffles when cooked and fill with the following, brush over with a. little melted glaze, mm sprinkle with chopped parsley. Dish on a fancy paper, the mixture: Melt loz. butter in a saucepan, whisk two eggs and two tablespoon fills of cream together, cut up seven or eight anchovies small, five or six oysters (with the liquor), two olives, the same size. Stir all over the fire together, do not make it too thick and fill the souffles with it. Add salt and Marshalls coralline pepper. 846. —MUSTARD CHEESE CREAM. Six ounces of Gruyere or good Cheddar cheese, cut up into thin slices, four tablespoonfuls of thick cream, salt and coralline pepper to taste, and a teaspoonful of mixed English mustard. Stir on the fire till the mixture is melted, then use. 847.—CHEESE STRAWS. Make a paste with 4oz. of butter, 3oz. grated Pmumiaan cheese and 5oz. flour, and as little water as possible. Season with salt and very little cayenne pepper. Roll it out thin and narrow strips. Brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake them in a good oven. 848.—FRIED OYSTERS. Parboil and beard two dozen oysters dip each separately in batter, drop them into some hot frying fat. and when cnsp and