Recipes. 519 gherkin. Dish up on a clish paper or napkin, and serve for a hors d’oeuvre or savoury, one to ©acli person. 827.—LUXETTE BISCUITS. Prepare some savoury biscuits as below, and when cold, force out on to the centre of each, by means of a forcing bag and large rose pipe, some Luxette. Garnish each biscuit with two arced olives and sliced raw cucumber that has been scalloped, and arrange them for hors d'oeuvre, or savoury, or for ball SUB?scuits°.—Rub into a ilb. of fine flour 2oz. of good butter, loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a dust of Marshalls coralline pepper, a Pinch of salt, a pinch of Cowans baking powder and a few drops of carmine. Mix witli cream into a stiff dry P&* * vvith out' prick it with a biscuit pricker, and cut it into rounds with a fancy cutter. Place them on a greased baking tin, and cook in a moderate oven till a pale fawn colour. 828.—SHRIMP EGGS. Boil three eggs until hard Pound the yolks with Vjjdve and one teaspoonful of anchovy essence. When thoroughly mixed to a paste, fill the whites of the eggs, and arrange a circle of shrimps on top, curling over the edges. Put a bunch of cress in the middle. Serve cold on salad. 829—CHEESE RAMEKINS. Melt loz. of butter, mix in loz. of flour, add a quarter of a pint of new milk, stir it all, and cook it well. Then beat in the yolks of two eggs, 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, add the well whisked whites of the eggs, and mix all lightly together. Bake in little cases for fifteen minutes. 830.—ANCHOVIES ON TOAST Fry some toast in dripping and crisp in the oven. Spread the toast with some anchovy butter. Lay some pieces of anchovy in a cross design on the croutes, and half an olive on eaci. Servo very hot. 831 .—BEETROOT FRITTERS. Cook a couple of nice beets until quite tender, and chop them up finely. To each teacupful of beet, add two finely chopped hard-boiled eggs, and enough thick brown sauce to bind all together. Make into small flat rounds, dip in breadcrumbs, and then in batter, and fry in boiling fat, a light brown. 832.—CELERY PUFFS. Beat the whites of two eggs until very stiff. Mix in pepper and salt and 3loz. of grated celery very lightly. Form into small putts, and drop them into boiling fat. They will take a very short time to cook. Serve on a napkin. 833. SAVOURY ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. Put six raw artichoke bottoms in a saucepan "'iff1 chough gravy f.j cover them, the iuice of half a lemon, a. marble ui butler ami two sliced tomatoes. Lot them slew gently till tender. Serve on a slice of tomato with the sauce poured over.