Alenus for Every Day of the Dear. 49° spoonful of mustard, a little white pepper, and a pinch of salt Make as thick as butter by dropping in salad oil and stirring with a wooden spoon. When stiff, add one teaspoonful of vinegar, four drops of lemon juice, and one tablespqonfu! of thick cream. 663.—QUENELLES OF WHITING AND OYSTERS. Ingredients : Two small whiting, four oysters, 2oz. panard, one tablespoonful sauce, one tablespoonful cream, one and a half eggs, seasoning to taste. Method : Fillet the whiting, and pound the fish well, then add the panard, and pound again. Mix the sauce, cream, and eggs, and seasoning to taste, and pound ail well together, then pass through a wire sieve. Garnish some quenelle shapes with hard boiled egg and chopped parsley, put the mixture in, and poach about fifteen minutes, dish up on mashed potatoes, and serve with a good white sauce made from the fish bones. 664.—COD A LA FLORENCE. Salt a nice piece of salted cod in cold water, changing the water twice. Boil it, remove bones and skin, leaving the cod in nice flakes. Put into a saucepan half a pint of milk, -with a few large mushrooms, a small onion cut up, a piece of celery, and a little bit of carrot. Simmer for half an hour, melt an ounce and a half of butter, add an ounce of flour, and the milk strained. Stir well until boiling, add twTo tablespoonfuls of cream, a dozer, oysters cut in two, and the liquor from them, season with Mar- shall’s coralline pepper, add a few drops of lemon juice, then put in the flakes of cod. Make very hot but do not reboi’. it. have ready a puree of parsnips, pour the cod into the centre o: the border, and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 665.—TANGERINE SAVOURY SAUCE WITH TURBOT. Cut four tangerines open, press them through a lemon squeezer, and stir into a glassful of Madeira or sherry, a little veal stock being added, together with the shredded rind of one of the oranges, a little lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. 666.—FISH CREAMS. Take lib. of cooked fish and pound it till smooth. Add to it a quarter of a pint of thick cream, a little salt and pepper, and one raw egg. Mix all thoroughly. Butter some little moulds and sprinkle them thinly with finely chopped capers. Fill each with the mixture, and poach them in a pan of water in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Turn them out. and serve with a good cream sauce. 667.—SOLES AUX TOMATOES. Take some small fillets of soles and bat them out. just fold over, and place on a Hitt tin with a sprinkling of lemon juice, pepper, and salt, and a small knob of butter; lay a piece of white paper over, place on a tin of wafer, and cook for about fifteen minutes in the oven. Dish round on a puree of potato, and a puree of tomatoes poured round the l>asc or handed round. Garnish with Marshall’s coralline pepper, and little bunches of fried parsley.