38S Menus for Every Day -of the Vtar. BULL'S-EYES. 8 Fry some rounds of bread and scoop out the centre me sure r.ot to break the bottoms). Break into the hollow a raw plover e egg, and stand it on a baking tin in a moderate oven until set. ber.e with some creamy Bechamel sauce, to which has been added a iittle chopped and pounded ham and some chopped pars.e,. PLOVERS’ EGGS IN ASPIC. 9. Prepare a quart of aspic jelly according to Mrs. A B. Mar- shall’s recipe, and line some little hexagon danole moulds. Pass the white and yolk of an hard-boiled egg separately through a._i.e sieve. Put a little of the white m one comer, setting it with a little jelly; in the next corner put a little yeilow, in the next a little chopped cooked beetroot, and in the fpurth put a lew caper*. setting them carefully with the jelly. (It is always best to -ta„ them on ice.) Put into the centre a cooked foyer s egg, ai^d _... _ the mould with aspic. Stand on ice until set. Any remaining jet. can be chopped uj> fine, and when the moulds are turned out and garnished with nice salad, sprinkle all over with chopped jell; PLOVERS' EGGS A LA MERSEA. 10. Put the eggs in cold water, bring to the b°il^“ b°il eratfr for eight minutes. Place in cold water at once. V hen cmd sheLl and cut in two lengthways, spread with a httle caviar, or, dP re- ferred highly seasoned lobster cream. Dip. in a good fr. mg batter' and fry a golden brown in hot fat; tn^’f^ra^ape^or coralline pepper and salt, and serve very hot on a fancy paper or d’oyley. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and tennei. PLOVERS' EGGS A L'EPICURE. 11 Boil the eggs as in the above recipe, shell when cold, and leave on ice till required. Have ready some small bI°^ bread- spread with Montpellier butter and sp.inkle with r.nel chopped beetroot and small cress. Place an egg on each slice o> bread, and squeeze over it a few drops of lemon juice. Nrrange on a glass dish, and garnish with shelled prawns and lettuce and chopped aspic jelly. BIRDS’ NESTS OF PLOVERS' EGGS. 10 Boil four or five plovers’ eggs for ten minutes Take off the eggshells, and brush the eggs, over thickly with a forcMneat pre- paration: put a little butter m a stewpan and to them. V arm half a pint of rich brown gravy, to which bas been added e te drons of Marshall’s carnune, pour over the egg.-. and serve . . Forcemeat to be made of breadcrumbs, beef suet chopped ve., m . parsler grated lemon peel, and Marshall's coralline pepper; salt to taste, and bind with the yolk of an egg. ceufs en cotelettes. wss. awnaa =& Murtsr