Recipes. 385 106.—RAGOUT OF CELERY. Cleanse, blanch, and braise one or two fresh white sticks of celery. When it is cooked take it up and cut in neat, square pieces; dish these up on a hot dish in a circle like cutleis. Clean three or four medium-sized mushrooms and cook them in a little butter for about ten minutes in the oven or on the stove, then cut them up in shreds and add them to 2oz. of cooked tongue or lean ham, likewise cut up, and mix all with the strained liquor in which the celery was braised. Make this quite hot, and, having removed the fat, pour all over the celery, garnish the dish with bunches of crisply fried, small, dice-shaped croutons, and serve hot. 107.—BROWN CHAUDFROID OF DUCK Cut the cold duck into neat joints, cover them with a sliced onion and carrot, a leaf of celery, and a broken parsley stalk, season with salt and pepper, and sprinkle the whole with salad oil and Marshall’s (white) tarragon vinegar; let them remain in this for an hour. Put the trimmings and bones on to stew with an onion and carrot and a savoury faggot in a quart of water, let it reduce to half a pint, then strain it. Fry loz. of butter and one of flour in a stewpan, stir in the stock till it boils, add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, also two sheets of Marshall’s gelatine, which have been soaked in cold water. Stir till all is dissolved, then add half a wineglassful of port wine. Take the pieces of duck, free them from the marinade, and mask each piece thickly with the sauce, and set aside till quite firm. Put a small quantity of seasoned salad into a silver dish, pile the pieces of duck high, and surround them with alternate ®ilces °f cucumber and tomato, which have been seasoned with salt, Marshall’s coralline pepper, salad oil, and Marshall’s (white) tarragon vinegar. 108.—POTATOES STUFFED. Cook some large potatoes in their skins. Cut a flat place at one for the potato to stand on. Cut a lid at the top and scoop out the msido and mash it. For each potato cut three oysters in 1 with the mashed potatoes, and pepper and salt and a little butter to bind it all. Fill the potato skins. Return to the oven and serve very hot, the potatoes standing in rows in the dish. The remains of fish or chicken, or even tomatoes or celery, can be used to stuff potatoes. 108a.—RABBIT CUSTARD. Pound 3oz. of the white flesh of a rabbit and mix with it three well-beaten eggs half a pint of milk, a pinch of pounded mace, half a teaspoonful of bruised onion, pepper and salt. Mix all thorughly, and place in a well-buttered mould. Tie it down with a cloth and steam like a custard pudding. Turn it out and serve with a brown wine sauce round, and grilled tomatoes separately. 109.—GALANTINE ON TOMATO RICE. ii4nema*ns °* galantine cut into neat rounds Brush over with a little warm glaze Mask one-half of each round with tomato Puree, the second half with Luxette. Ornament the top with C C