Recipes. 515 798 —PORTSMOUTH TOAST. Pound two tablespoonfuls of cooked ham until smooth. Add two anchovies and pound them, also the yolk of one egg, a little salt and pepper, and cream. Stir this until it is thick, add one tomato, warm all together, and serve on buttered toast very hot. 799.—MARROW TOAST. Make a paste of pounded yolk of egg and the sauce from any sweet chutney, and spread it on some fried croutes and keep warm. Cook a marrow bone, remove the marrow, and spread on the pre- pared croutes immediately, with pepper and salt, and serve very hot and quickly _ 800.—HAM BUTTER. Two ounces of ham, 3oz. of fresh butter, a dusting of mignonette pepper. Pound and rub through a sieve with a drop of cream and a piece of mushroom. Make design on a piece of bread and butter by means of forcing bag and pipe. 801.—SAVOURY TARTLETS. Make some small patty cases, and fill with the following mixture : Take six oysters, four small mushrooms, salt and pepper, and chop them into small pieces. Put them into a small saucepan, and warm them for three minutes over the fire. Chop up one teaspoonful of ham and add it. Pile the mixture in the patty cases, and ylace in the oven to get hot through. Ornament with one small fried mushroom on top. 802.—MACARONI FINGERS. Boil till tender some large tube macaroni. Cut into lengths of 2 inches. Split them down one side. Fill the centre with a thin roll of chicken and anchovy essence paste. Close the tube. Lay two side by side on a finger of toast, and serve hot with a little grated cheese over all. 803.—BEIGNETS OF ANCHOVIES. Melt loz. of butter in a saucepan, add loz. of flour. Stir for a few minutes. Add two tablespoonfuls of milk, one of warm water, and cook at the side of the stove for ten minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Take off the fire, let it stand for a few minutes, add two yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, and half a. teaspoonful of anchovy essence, lastly stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Have ready some little fillets of anchovies, dip each in the mixture, take out with a teaspoon, and fry a golden colour in hot oil or fat; garnish with fried parsley. They should be the size of half a crown. Dish them in a circle. 804. —SURPRISE CROUTES. Thick fried croutes with a hollow in the centre. Fill the hollow with fried sultana raisins. Cover with a thin slice of ham, stuff an olive with parsley butter, and put on top just before serving. The olive cold, and the croute, &c., very hot. 805. —LOBSTER CROUTES. Prepare some small fried croutes. Pound some lobster and spread it on the croutes Soak the remaining pieces in vinegar and oil, and salt and pepper for fifteen minutes Then pile them on the croutes and put all in the oven to warm. Just before L L 2