49 Recipes. 668.—SOLE A LA BONNE FEMME. KttSvrt^Vtft S. S“vA“.rA‘i«“d S\*» 1= wsb sea- >~u"s«r;£I‘Hu“ Palsley' 669.—FRIED FILLETS OF HADDOCK. Take the filiets of a .fresh haddock, and cut them in long strips and about one inch wide, season them with a little mignonette pepper, a sprinkling of anchovy essence, salad oil, “nd chopped parsley, and let them remain in the seasoning for about one hour. Take them up, and sprinkle them over with fine flour, and dip them entirely into wholee freshly made white breadcrumbs, tie each fillet into the shape of a lover’s knot, and drop them into clean boiling fat and try them till a nice golden colour, take them up and arrange them on a pile of crisply fried parsley, and serve hot boles are excellent served in tlie same way.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 670.—VOL AU VENT OF OYSTERS. Ingredients : Puff paste, two dozen oysters, half a pint of sauce made from white fish stock, and liquor from the oysters, two tablespoonfuls of cream or more, a few drops oi lemon, and salt to taste. Method : Blanche the oysters, but do not allow them to boil, beard them, and cut each oyster m three or tour pieces, according to size. For the sauce, take ‘2oz. of butter, 2oz. of flour, and fry without discolouring, then mix with it the liquor from the oysters, and enough fish stock to make a nice thick sauce, stir it until it boils, then add the cream arid season with salt and lemon juice. Now add the oysters, and put the mixture into a well shaped case of puff paste and serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. 671.—SAVOURY SOLE. Take a large fresh sole, skinned and trimmed from the 11ns; dry with a clean cloth, slit it down from the head to the tail, season with a little salt and pepper, sprinkle with a little salad oil, place the sole in a tin or saute pan, and cook in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes, then take up with a palette knife and place it on a hot dish, and keep it hot. Take some mussels, with some sliced truffle, and bearded oysters, and place these round the sole. Fry 1-Joz. butter and fine flour together without discolouring, add to this three-quarters of a pint of the liquor from the shellfish, and stir till it boils, then add a quarter of a pint of tomato pulp and the liquor from the sole and pass all through the tammy; add a dessertspoonful of Mar- shall’s (white) tarragon vinegar, a dust of salt, and Marshall’s coralline pepper, and a few drops of Marshall’s carmine. Rewarm