Recipes. 377 spoonful of Marshall’s curry powder, a dessertspoonful of chutney, the juice of a small lemon, a little salt, one and a half pints of good stock. Cover the pan, and simmer steadily for forty minutes until tender, then tammy it and return to pan. Have ready as many hard-boiled eggs as required, and cut in halves; take a small piece oil the bottom of each to make them stand up, put in the curry for live minutes before serving. Dish on a border uf boiled rice, garnish with yolk of egg that has been rubbed through a sieve, small strips of beetroot and parsley alternately round the dish, put a small spoonful of whipped cream on the top of each egg, sprinkle with Marshall’s coralline pepper. Serve very hot for luncheon or dinner. ■2. Required number of hard-boiled eggs cut in halves or quarters. Mix one and a half teaspoonfuls of curry powder to a PlnJ, °.f ejavy and twelve large raisins cut in half. Simmer all until it is reduced almost half. Thicken with flour. Have the eggs very hot, and pour the hot sauce over them* and serve very hot. 67.—PORK OLIVES. Cut some thin pieces of pork from the leg, 3in. long, 2in. wide and jin. in thickness. Put a thin layer of breadcrumbs that have bien slightflavoured with onion and sage on each of the slices, sprinkle with salt and pepper, on this lay a thin slice of tomato, roll up tightly and tie with a tape, roll them lightly in flour, and fry a good brown in butter. Put them in a stewpan, and cover with a good gravy from a joint. Cook gently for one hour, take them out, and dish up on a bed of mashed potatoes. Thicken the gravy with a little cornflour, add a small lump of glaze strain, put in a tew chopped truffles, and pour it over and round tile olives. Serve apple sauce separately. 67a.—NECK OF MUTTON A LA FLORENCE. Boil 31b. of neck of mutton until nearly cooked. Make a paste ot *ev beaten yolks of two eggs, chopped parsley, breadcrumbs, sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and spread this over the meat, and brown it nicely m front of the fire. Serve with a savoury sauce made with halt a, pint of the liquor thickened with a little browned dour. Add one teaspoonful of lemon juice and the same of claret and pour this very hot round the dish. 68.—SPAGHETTI CHEESE. Parboil about 3oz. of spaghetti then boil it till tender in a oil fto i • r,.a,y in a dish, and pour the following sauce over, and stand in the oven till brpwn on top. Sauce. Boil together loz of butter, loz. of flour, one pint of milk, a quarter of a pint of good stock; salt, pepper, and a tea- spaghetti C mustard’ When fair|y thick, poir over the 66.—BAKED EGGS AND PIGEON, &c. the low !uf dotf°m PjaDramek‘n dish with chopped pigeon and add • teL fe/>fi Brfated Parmesan cheese. Break an egg over all. O r,1tca pooI},fu,1 of cream, and bake ten minutes, of sm-IuV™, ply,-th,e remains of pigeon and place at the bottom smaff di«b nW dishes Add one teaspoonful of cream to each Md bake for five miSStes maahroom’ Place the egg on top,