44^ Menus for Every Day of the Year. 426.—COLD DEVON PUDDING. Take four eggs and their weight separately in flour, butter, and sugar. Beat the butter to a smooth cream, dredging in the flour and sugar. Stir in the well-beaten eggs and a few drops of ratafia essence. Butter some small moulds. Fill three-quarters full and bake. Serve cold with a fruit salad. 427. —RHUBARB MERTNGUE. Make some very light flakey paste and line a piedish with th!« paste, fill up with fresh rhubarb, and bake until the pash rhubarb is cooked, then put a layer of thick good custard upon the top of the piedish. Over the rhubarb have some stifflv ■whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with lemon, and with one of Marshall’s large icing pipes decorate the top with the cream in some pretty designs. Have a few pistachio nuts minced very fine, adding to them a little pink sugar, dust over the top of the compote just before serving. 428. —COMPOTE OF PRUNES. Wash lib. of prunes and prat them in a pan with three-quarters of a pint of water and six lumps of sugar, the rind of half a lemon cut in strips, six cloves, an inch of cinnamon stick; simmer gently for twenty minutes. Then remove the lemon, cloves, ar.d oinnamon, add quarter of a pint of claret, and cook very slowly till tender. Serve nicely piled in the centre of a round dish. 429.—CLARET JELLY. LIQUEUR JELLY. Take a bottle of claret, the rind and juice of a lemon, one pot of red currant jelly, lib. of loaf sugar, rather more than lor. of gelatine, and a wineglassful of brandy. Boil altogether for five minutes, strain into moulds, and serve with whipped cream round. 430 —SWISS ROLL. Cream 2oz. of butter with 3oz. of caster sugar. Then beat up an egg to a. froth and work it in. Add in turn 2oz. of flour, another well-beaten egg, and two more ounces of flour. Dissolve a ten.spoonfu! of baking powder in two tablespoonfuls of milk, and last of all add this to the other ingredients. Have readv a tin about 14 inches in length, greased with clarified butter, and lined with greased paper. Spread the cake mixture on to the paper, and bake in a quick oven. When ready turn out on to a sheet of paper previously sprinkled with caster sugar. Remove the greased paper, spread the cake with several spoonfuls of hot raspberry jam, and roll up quickly. Serve either hot or cold 431. -VALENTINE PASTRY. Mix over the fire into a thick paste 2oz of butter, the grated rind of an orange, sugar to taste, lloz. of flour, the mice o: the orange, and three well-beaten eggs. Bake in a buttered mould. Serve cold with an orange salad. 432. —TANGERINE CREAM. Melt half a pint of lemon jelly with half a gill of thick cream, add six drops of vanilla essence, and line a mould about quarter of an inch thick with this cream. Cut four tangerine oranges into quarters, removing the pips and pith. Pour the remainder