498 Menus for Every Day of the i’ear. it two or three sliced onions, a bunch oi herbs, tax or eight peppercorns, a pinch of salt, and the strained juice of or., lenion Bring to the boil, skim, and let the. bird - m on the side of the stove for about llurtv minutes, then an the joints in a pile on the dish on which they are to be wet Frv together 2-ioz. of butter and 3;oz. of fine flour without di- colouring, mix to this one and a half pints of the liquor in wi.n the chicken was cooked, stir until it boils, then stir into thu* three raw yolks of eggs that have been previously mixed with the juice of a lemon and a gill of thick cream. Keep stirring till the sauce thickens, but do not allow it to boil, tammy and pour over the chicken, and garnish with croutons, and then ma=k over with the chestnut puree by means of a forcing bag and a large rose pipe. 699.—DUCKLING A LA MODE. Divide a duckling in four pieces, once down the centre of the breastbone and again laterally, so that each Piece contains* winsr or a leg. Fry a light brown m clarified fat or butt.r. Then strain and roll the duckling m flour Return to the with half a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of port wine, an anchovy, two shallots, and a bouquet or sweet herbs. Put the cover on the pan and simmer for twenty minute; to Kj an hour Then remove the herbs, skim off the fat. and rtra.n off the gravy. Thicken it with butter and flour, and add a few chopped mushrooms previously saute in butter. the ducklm| on four croutons, pour the gravy over the top, and flu the centre with green peas. 700.—MACEDOINE OF SWEETBREADS. Simmer a couple of sweetbreads in stock for nearly on hour then cut them into slices 1 inch thick. Make a round border ot mashed potato. Dip the sweetbread in egg and breadcrumb, and frv it for four minutes. Dish it up on the border of Potato and fill the centre with the macedoine of vegetables Take equal mnntities of cooked carrots and turnips and celery and beet, and ant into tiny shapes or balls. Put them into a pan with some cooked peas and broad beans; add salt, pepper and some butter. Half fill with good gravy, and cook very slowly for ten minute., carefully stirring the contents and not bruising them. 701.—ROLLED BEEF. Have tlb of thin meat off honed “ ribs ” of beef, and bat it out a i. 11 cIiotd* up one onion, some ground spices, salt and pepper, flat Uiop up one oniui spread them over tlie meat. witb^ thick brown gravy. It can also be glased and served cold. 70° —PETITES CROUSTADES. [“Sfi. SoS l ilS. lrok llo «S& ol Ik, brnd .1 Ik, W -a