Recipes. 44' colours. Fix these in their places with a little more of the lemon jelly, and fill up the centre with the following cream, viz._: Separately dissolve the odds and ends of the cuttings of the puree with two tablespoonfuls of lemon jelly, and let them stand till somewhat cool, then add to each a quarter of a pint of thickly whipped cream, and pour them into the mould in alternate layers, and put to set on broken ice. When required, turn out on a dish. Place on the top a ball of stiffly whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla essence, and lightly sprinkle with a little chopped pistachio nuts.—Mrs A. B. Marshall. 398.- ICED TARTLETS. Make some tartlets of flake pastry, fill them with a. macedoine of fruits flavoured with any liqueur or with stoned brandy cherries. Pile vanilla ice cream on top, and serve. 399.—RICE A L1MPERATR1CE Put 3oz. of Carolina rice in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover it; let it come to the boil, then wash it in cold water. Put into it a pint of new milk with 3oz. of caster sugar and the finely cut peel of half a lemon, and about an inch of stick cin- namon tied up. Cook till tender, remove the lemon peel, and dissolve in the milk rather better than Joz. of Marshall’s finest leaf gelatine; let. it get cool, then mix into it half a pint of whipped cream. Pour it into a fancy mould with a pipe such as shown in plate, and let it set. Dip the mould in warm water, pass a cloth over the bottom to absorb any moisture, turn out on to the dish, and fill the centre with a compote of prunes or other fruit. Serve cold.—Mrs A. B. Marshall. 400. -FRUIT TRIFLE Cut the top of a sixpenny sponge cake, and scoop out the centre of the large piece so as to form a ring 3 inches high, sprinkle two glasses of sherry over the ring, and put a layer of fresh fruit into it. Then put a layer of crumbs of cake. Fill up with fruit, pour a glass of curacoa over it. Make a good custard flavoured with vanilla, and pour over all. Serve cold with fruit round the dish. 401.—ICED CASTLE PUDDING. Make some small castle puddings strongly flavoured with vanilla, cut off the tops (to be used as lids), and cut out the insides. The castle puddings should be as hot as possible. At the last moment fill them with strawberry ice cream. Put on the lids, and serve quickly. One large pudding may be served in the same way. 402. LENT POTATOES Grate into crumbs three large macaroons. Thoroughly whip two eggs. Blanch and pound 4oz. of sweet almonds Mix all together with some butter and half a glass of cherry hrandy and enough flour to bind. Form into “ potatoes," and fry in a pan of lard. Serve with cherry sauce. 403.—FRENCH SAGO PUDDING. Boil 2oz. of sago in one pint of milk until tender, add 2oz. of large stoned raisins, some salt and sugar; beat up two eggs and add to the mixture. Boat all well together. Put in a buttered