389 Recipes. 116.—TIMBALE OF HADDOCK. Boil Jib. of large macaroni till tender, cut it into required lengths, and line a plain mould. Fill the mould with the follow- ing mixture, and steam for an hour : Pound together in a mortar lib. of tomatoes, lib. of dried cooked haddock, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 2oz. of butter, and the beaten yolk of an egg. Season with plenty of salt and some pepper. Put a high pnper round the mould, pour in the mixture, and steam it for an hour Turn it out. and serve with grilled tomatoes. 117.—GAME TIMBALE AND TIMBALE OF BEEF. Ingredients : Two ounces of pipe macaroni, lib. of raw or cooked beef, half a pint of thick brown sauce, three whole eggs. Method : -l ut the macaroni in boiling water and cook till tender, then cut in apd Hne a mould or basin. Cut the meat up and pound and sieve it, add the cream, sauce, and yolks of ecrgs, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, then whip the whites, and stir carefully into the mixture: fill the prepared mould, and steam for an hour. Serve hot with a brown sauce round, or in a sauceboat. 118.—CUTLETS OF DUCK. Line some cutlet moulds with aspic jelly, garnish with truffles and chillies. Pound Ub.__of cold duck with 2oz. of hnm. add half ap^?ss 1 Port, salt, Marshall’s coralline pepper, and two sheets of Marshall’s gelatine dissolved in a drop of stock made from the duck bones. Pass all through a wire sieve, odd fhe juice of ono tomato and a quarter of a pint of aspic jelly. Stir on ice till nearly set, then pour into cutlet moulds. Dish up on a border of aspic Jelly, and put cold cooked peas round that have been well seasoned with Marshall s (white) tarragon vinegar and coralline pepper and salt. 119.—MARROW TOAST. Blanch the marrow by putting it in cold water over the fire with a little salt, and let it come to the boil; instantly drop it into a basin of cold water till required. Take fhe marrow out of the water and Place in a mortar, season with a very little thyme and currv powder, lo every two tablespoonfuls of marrow add the hard volk e15Er’ Pound together till smooth, spread on rounds of bre-d which have been buttered, and put in the oven to get hot. Serve very hot. 120. —DEVTLLED FTSH. o Ti'e<temal-ns of any cold fish cut in pieces the size of one portion Soak them in warm butter. Mask them with the following paste mimites'nk 6 Wlth breadcrumb9. and bake in the oven for fifteen P--TT.—One teaapoonful of mustsrd, two of anchovy essence, two nenne? M- c\'!t!le,v’ two ,of "rdino (pounded), some salt and pepper. Mix all into a paste 121. —HADDOCK TRIFLES. and°°ak ve™rim«ad<Jor.>k and *flrSd off the meat, add pepper, salt, croirr> r/T - i1® m,lde ™ustard, and mix into stiffly whipped cream. Pile into a pyramid on rounds of bread and hotter.