Menus for Every Day of the Year. 442 mould and bake for one hour. Turn out and serve hot with e white vanilla sauce. 404.—ALMOND PUDDING. 1. Beat separately the yolks of two eggs and the whites of three, and mix to a cream with 2oz. of ground sweet almonds, foz. of ground bitter almonds, 2oz. of sugar, and 2oz. of butter. Mix in a wineglassful of sherry, and pour into a buttered mould orna- mented with pistachio nuts. Bake it, and serve hot. 2. One and a half ounces of sugar, 2oz. of butter, 2oz. of ground sweet almonds, and two eggs. Beat yolks and whites of eggs separately, then beat all ingredients together to a cream. Butter a mould, and decorate with cherries and pistachio nuts. Mix into the batter a wineglass of sherry, and fill the mould. Bake, and serve hot. 405.—BROWN BREAD SOUFFLE. 1. Cream loz. of butter, and add slowly the yolks of five eggs, loz. of sugar, two powdered cloves, 2oz. of finely grated brown breadcrumbs, and the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs. Bake for half an hour, and serve with a fruit sauce. 2. Take 2oz. of butter and melt it in a saucepan, add half a pint of milk or cream and 8oz. of breadcrumbs. Let the mixture boil for a minute. Then remove the pan, add 3oz. of caster sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and the yolks of five eggs. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and fold lightly into the other ingredients. Have ready a buttered mould, round which a band of greased paper, reaching 2 inches above the mould, ha; been pinned. Turn in the mixture, and steam for an hour. In the meantime beat three tablespoonfuls of cherry jam, add halt a wineglassful of cherry brandy to it. When the souffle is ready, turn it out and serve the sauce with it. 406.—RICE BALLS. Put 4oz. of rice (well washed) into a stewpan with a pint and a half of milk, 2oz. of blanched and finely, chopped almonds, 2oz. of lump sugar, and let it stew till the rice is very tender. Dip some small moulds or cups into cold water, fill them wnn the rice, and when cold turn them out on a glass dish. Arrange a border of preserve round them. and. if possible, put a nttje whipped cream on each, and colour thp cream with Marshal, s carmine and damson blue; leave some white, and serve. 407.—NOYEAU PUDDING. Line a baking tin with puff paste—a round tin is best, with the edges about If inches high. Fill it with noyeau mixture, and bake in a good oven for thirty-five minutes. , Noyeau Mixture.—Mix together into a smooth paste loz. oi fresh butter, loz. of caster sugar, six drops of vanilla essence one small wineglassful of noyeau, fib. of almonds chopped fairly one- the beaten yolks of two eggs, and loz. of chocolate powder Mix all thoroughly, pour into the pastry, and bake. 408.—LITTLE BREAD PUDDINGS. Take two large cupfuls of grated breadcrumbs brown and white mixed—enough boiling milk to form a solid mixture "it the crumbs twenty-four cherries cut into four, one tablespooniu of sherry a little sugar, a small piece of butter, and three eggs