400 Menus for Every Day of the Year. 177.—POTATO FRITTERS. Parboil four kidney potatoes and cut into ;-inch slic* - Chop finely 3oz. cooked woodcock, and moisten with a little finely chopped mint and vinegar, ilelt ioz. of butter in a stewpan and add half a teaspoonful of flour, fry slightly, and add half a gill of stock; boil well, and stir in the prepared meat. Turn on to a plate to cool. Cover each slice of potato with the farce and place two pieces together. Dip the fritters in a good fryii g and serve garnished with fried parsley. 178.— LITTLE SOUFFLES OF PEAS. Cook some peas and dry them thoroughly. Then grate 2oz. of them finely and mix with a little pepper and salt. \V hip the whites of two eggs to a very stiff froth and add lightly to tne mixture. Form into little balls, and drop them into boiling la", and fry a light brown. _ 179.—MELON SALAD. Divide a melon into thick slices and remove the juice and seeds, cut the pulp into cubes, and lay these on ice till required. Chop up 3oz. of peeled walnuts and work into a small, cream cheese with a very little caster sugar and a teaspoonful of sherry. Koh the cheese mixture into balls. Wash and mince a lettuce as lor a French salad. Make a mayonnaise sauce of the yolks of two egg; and oil, added a drop at a time, and, when thick, lemon juice according to taste? Turn the shredded lettuce and the cube; of lemon into a salad bowl and pour over them the thickened mayon- naise. Decorate last of all with the cream cheese balls. 180.—CHICKEN CREAM. Two tablespoonfuls of minced, cooked chicken jelly, two tabie- spoonfuls of thick cream, a little salt, and jpepper, a^squeeze^of lemon juice, and one leaf of Marshall,s gelatine. Mix all the ingredients together in a small enamelled pan, let it get hot, then add the gelatine, and when thoroughly mixed pour into >ery sma.. fluted moulds and leave till set. When required, dip in warm water, wipe, and turn out on to a dainty little paper mat on a neai little white or silver dish, garnish with little sprigs of parslev arranged round the base of the mould, and serve tiny rol.s o white or brown bread and butter on a lace paper on another little dish. 181.—ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS A L'ESPAC-NE. Remove the choke from some cooked globe artichokes and tree the bottoms from fibre. Simmer them gently m a little oh and vinegar for ten minutes. Serve them on a round ot buttered toast with a bunch of cooked asparagus tips in toe centre. 18*2.—OYSTER PUFFS. Take a Jib. of flour, a little salt, and make^into ajhifl_ paste with cold water. Roll’ out .the Paste._ squeeze^ all Urn water Horn a ilb. of butter, and work it into a ball, using Put the ball on the paste and press it out to half the size of the paste Roll it up and set aside for one hour, and then roll it out Four times Do this twice. Let the paste rest for a few minutes then roll into thin strips. Place a scalded oyster in each, foh it over, and pinch the sides together Bake m tho oven for ten minutes, and serve very hot with fried parsley sprinkled o\cr