424 Menus for Every Day of the Year. 298.—ORANGE TRIFLE. Cut some penny sponge cakes through the middle, a- they ar<- too thick. Lay the bottom pieces in a dish close together, and over six sprinkle evenly one and a half wineglnssfuls of sherry- Peel and remove the seeds from four oranges. Cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick, and lay on the cakes. Sprit. - if required on the oranges, cover with the tops of the cakes. Sprinkle half a wineglassful of maraschino over all. Cover the top with whipped cream, and ornament with pistachios. 299.—LITTLE ALMOND PUDDINGS Beat four eggs thoroughly, and gradually add 4oz. oi ground sweet almonds and 4oz. of caster sugar. Beat all together for a quarter of an hour, line a mould with oiled paper, pour in the mixture, and bake for thirty-five minutes in a slow oven. The oven must not be opened for the first fifteen minutes. Serve cold with a sweet sauce, and decorate the mould with blanched almonds. 300. —PEAR MERINGUE. Boil one teacupful of rice. Mix with it the yolks of two egsrs. Stew six small pears until tender, place them in the centre of a dish, and put the rice round them.. Beat the whites of three eggs with a little caster sugar till quite stiff, and place over the pears. Bake in a slow over with the door open for fifteen minuter. Serve hot 301. —BROWN PUDDING Mix together 3oz. of brown breadcrumbs, 3oz. of flour. 3oz. of sultanas, 5oz. of stoned dates, half a gill of water, a little mixed spice and a pinch of salt. Melt together 2oz. of golden syrup and 2oz. of dripping and add to the mixture Beat all we , together, and add half a teaspoonfnl of baking powder and a well- beaten egg. Place in a buttered basin and boil three hours. 302.—STONE CREAM Boil one pint of new milk with loz. of sugar. Make a batter of a little milk and a tablespoonful of cornflour. Stir it into the boiling sugar and milk, adding six drops of vanilla flavouring, and simmer fur four minutes. Let it stand to cool. I lace some jam in the bottom of a glass disli. Pour the mixture over it before it gets too cold, and serve with grated pistachio nuts. 303.—RASPBERRY PUDDING. Put Jib. of raspberry jam through a sieve, and add of breadcrumbs. Cream together 2oz. of sutpr and the same ot butter, and add to the fruit. Then add half a gil- ot cream, the yolks of two eggs, and the beaten white of one epg. btc. a.l together for five minutes. Butter a mould, and pour in the mixture, and hake in a moderate oven for one hour, lum out, ana serve with whipped cream on top and a fruit sauce. I lus ca he made with fresh fruit as well as jam. 304 —APRICOT SOUFFLE. ALSO PEAR SOUFFLE AND STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE. Mix over the fire 2oz. of cornflour with half a pint of milk nil it thickens. Cut five apricots in half and rub them through ■ sieve. Add (his pulp and a little sugar to taste to the milk at.