Redpes. 499 about li inches deep. Put the croustade to fry in clean boiling fat till a nice pale golden colour, then take up and remove the centre of the bread so as to leave a thickness at the bottom of about 1 inch, then put the bread again in the fat to finish the inside frying, as the case should be quite crisp. When ready to use, place the croustade on a dish, having first brushed it over on the outside of the bottom with a little warm glaze to make it adhere to the dish, then fill it up with the ragout, garnish it all round the top with the kite-shape croutons of bread that have been fi-ied a nice golden colour, and put a nice bunch of crisply fried parsley at each end. Use for a hot entree for a dinner party. Dish while hot. Ragout.—Take a cold cooked sweetbread, a set of cooked calf's brains, the meat from the breast of a cooked chicken, a few cooked button mushrooms, and some cockscombs if liked. Cut these all up into neat slices, and then mix with a thick, creamy veloutc sauce. Make hot in the bainmarie, and use. 703.—PATTIES A LA MAC Make some little patty cases, and fill with the following mixture, and servo very hot : Three tablespoonfuls of cooked game, three of chopped button mushrooms, and one of ham, one of sweetbread, some pepper and salt, and some thick brown sauce to bind. 704 —BRAISED NECK OF VEAL. Cut off the ends of the long bones of the middle part of a neck of veal, raise the skin of the fillet, and lard it. Tie up neatly. Then place the trimmings with a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, a head of celery, and a carrot in a stewpan, pour over them a wineglassful of Madeira, and lay the trimmed neck on the top. Add a little water, and stew gently for a couple of hours, until, in fact, tjje meat is tender, but not overdone, then strain off the stock. Melt some butter in another saucepan, stir in sufficient flour to make into a ball of paste, and cook until browned, then add the stock by degrees, cooking the sauce well so as to make it perfectly smooth, and let it boil up, then squeeze in the strained juice of an orange and make thoroughly hot. Serve the meat garnished with rolls of fried bacon, and the sauce separately. 705.—FILLETS OF MUTTON WITH ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. Take a piece of loin of mutton that has been well hung, remove all the bone and unnecessary fat and skin from it, and then cut it into fillets about 11 inches thick, bat them out on a wetted board, and shape them into niee-formed fillets; then lard them with lardons of fat bacon just round the edge to form a pretty border, trim the lardons, season with a little coralline pepper and salt, and put the fillets on a plate. Season them with warm butter, and sprinkle over the centre of the fillets a little finely shredded gherkin, and leave them lying in the seasoning for about one hour before cooking. Place them on a fold of well-oiled foolscap paper, and put them on a tin with a, buttered paper over, and conk llicm in a quick oven for twelve or fifteen minutes; then remove the top paper, lightly brush over the fillets with a little K K 2