Menus for Every Day of the Year. 406 fifteen minutes. Then put them in the baskets, and serve with each a piece of lemon and a slice of brown bread and butter. 208.—MARROW ON ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. Cover the ends of a marrow bone with a water paste and tie a cloth over. Put in a saucepan with boiling water and salt, and boil for two and a half hours. Take up, remove the cloth and paste and the marrow from inside, and pile a couple of spoonfuls on the artichoke bottoms, prepared as beiow, sprinkle a little pepper over, and serve very hot and immediately it is acne. For the artichoke bottoms, cook some globe artichokes and remove the bottoms, taking out all strings and hard bits of stalk. r ry four in loz. of butter for a few minutes, sprinkle three or lour drops of lemon in the centre of each, and use. 209.—MIROTON OF BEEF. Take two good-sized Spanish or four ordinary onions, peel and slice them finely, put them in a saute or frying pan with 2oz. of butter or fat. season with a little coralline pepper and salt and put in with them a bunch of herbs. Fry altogether very gently .ior about fifteen to twenty minutes, and till a nice golden < :cu-. then mix into the pan one and a half tablespoontuls of French vinegar, about three-quarters of a pint of good brown sauce, a gi.l and a half of brown stock, and a pinch of caster sugar. Let '■ hi? d-d on the stove for twenty minutes, skimming off any of the tat that rises to the top. Pass the sauce with the onions through the tammy. Put two or three tablespoonfuls of the prepared sauce in the dish on which the miroton is to be served; place so • '■ slices of cold roast beef on the sauce in layers; pour the rest of the sauce over the top layer of the meat, sprinkle on it a few browner breadcrumbs. Stand the dish containing the miroton m a tin con- taining boiling water, and place in a good hot oven *°r aboui twelve to fifteen minutes. Then garnish round the edge 01 tbs dish with peas, beans, cauliflowers, or any other nice vegetable and serve directly it comes from the oven for a luncheon dish or for a remove at dinner. Mutton or veal can be treated m the same way.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 210.—SPROUTS AND CHEDDAR CHEESE. Boil some brussels sprouts slowly until tender, keeping their shape. Butter a small baking dish and arrange the sprouts neatly ill it, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over it. and pour over a following sauce, and bake in a good oven for twenty nunur- Put 2oz. of Cheddar cheese cut into thin slices into a stewpan wu . half a gill of milk, half a gill of cream, and one gill of white stock and a little pepper. Stir over the fire till melted, then pour at once over the sprouts. 211.—TURBOT SALAD. Take two cupfuls of cooked turbot loz. of horseradish and chopped cooked onion, a quarter of a sliced fresh cucumber, three cooked potatoes cut in small pieces Sprinkle with a few drops of lemon juice, and pour over a good mayonnaise sauce. ^er with lettuce and tomatoes, and a little grated cheese over all. 212.—SAVOURY VERMICELLI. Put three tablespoonfuls of vermicelli into one pint of boilins milk, and cook gently for ten minutes. Add two very well-beaten