Recipes. 479 611.—ORANGE TART. Boil two large oranges in water until tender, probably forty minutes. Put tlie pulp and juice of the oranges in a basin with ioz of butter and double their weight in sugar. Boat all together well Line a dish with thin paste, put in the mixture, add ono glassful of sherry. Cover the top with stiffly beaten white of egg. Bake in the oven, and serve hot 612.—POTATO FRITTERS. Roast enough potatoes to produce 1 lb. of pulp. Add slowly Uoz. of sugar, half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, two table- spoonfuls of milk, the beaten yo]ks of two eggs, and one table- spoonful of chopped glace cherries. Beat all these ingredients well together, adding the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs last. Have ready some boiling fat. Drop in a dessertspoonful of the mixture at a time, and fry a good brown. Serve very hot with a little icing sugar. 613.—SOUFFLE FRAPPE MARGUERITE. Make half a pint of fresh strawberry pulp, and beat with the yolk of one egg and one gill of cream. Dissolve less than Joz.o? gelatine in as little milk as possible and add to the mixture, with one tablespoonful of maraschino. Whip the whites of two eggs till stiff, add them lightly, and mix all very thoroughly together. Put a paper round, and set it on ice to cool. When quite set, remove the paper and sprinkle the top with pink whipped cream. 614.—RICE CARAMEL. Steep four tablespoonfuls of rice in water for one hoiir, and while waiting put alb. of raw sugar into a.stewpa.n with one tablespoonful of water, and boil it till it begins to burn. Then run it round the sides and bottom of a mould till set. Make a mixture of the rice, four eggs and the yolk of one more, a little sugar, and a few drops of vanilla essence, and half a pint of milk. Mix up well towether. Pour into the mould and steam slowly for two hours. Can be served hot or cold. 615.—ORANGE COMPOTE AND JELLY. Peel six oranges very, carefully, removing all the pith. Cut out the pulp in each division so that there is no skin of anv kind, add to this one tablespoonful of brandy and the juice of half an orange, and arrange in the centre of a border jelly, sprinkle a little icing sugar over, and force some whipped cream over the compote, decorating with rosettes of pink cream. 616— MOSS BASKETS. Make or buy. some little castle cakes, and scoop out the centres. Dip the cakes in apricot jam, and then in finely chopped pistachio nut. Put a little jam in the. inside, and pile whipped cream on top, placing a little heap of pistachio nut on top. 617. MILK JELLY. Melt loz. of gelatino in half a teacunful of hot water in a pan. Take one and a quarter pints of cold milk, add 2nz. of caster sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Mix with the gelatine. Strain into a wot ring mould, and set to cool Serve with whipped cream in the centre and mashed cooked chestnut forced over it, and little rosettes of chestnut round the dish.