Mtnus for livery Day of the Year 43° 332.—VOL AU VENT OF PIPPINS. Soak the pippins in water for twelve hours. Stew gently ti : tender in a syrup of sugar and water and the juice of quarter of a lemon, colour slightly with some cochineal. Melt some apple jelly, and mix with a wineglass of liqueur. Put the pippins and a very little syrup in a pastry vol ou rent which hac »>c*en Pre- pared. Pour the jelly and liqueur over, and < r hot. Stewed cherries are used in the same way. 333.—MOCK POACHED EGGS. Have rounds of plain cake, put a puree made from dried apricots in the centre, and a ring of whipped cream round to illustrate the idea of an egg. 334.—PRALINE PEARS AND HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE Peel as many stewing Cape pears as are required Poach them in a syrup of sugar and water, flavoured with vanilla, until • ney are soft. Place a layer of pears in a souffle dish. Blancn s-jine almonds, chop them finely, and lay them on a baking sheet in a moderate oven. Sprinkle with icing sugar. When the sugar turned to caramel and the almonds are pralines, let them get cole, and then sprinkle a layer over the pears. Cover with the whipped cream, then with the rest of the fruit, and finally with cream once more. Sprinkle the remainder of the praline almonds over the top, and serve with a hot chocolate sauce, nicely sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. 335.- GINGER RENNET. Warm a pint of milk to blood heat and sweeten it, flavour with a little powdered ginger, and add a dessertspoonful c>l renne.. Pour into little glass howls, one for each person. When firm, cover with whipped cream and a small piece of preserved ginger. 336. —CAKE A LA TROUYILLE. Prepare a sponge mixture as follows: To 4oz. of caster sugir add four eggs. Heat over boiling water till luke warau then remove and whip till cold and stiff, and add by degrees ooz. of fine flour that has been passed through the sieve, and tofv°J Cowan’s baking powder. Have the half of a melon mould rubbed over well with cold butter and dusted over with sifted flour, n l it with the mixture, put a band of buttered paper round, and place it in a moderate oven for about thirty-five to forty minutes. When the cake looks a pretty golden colour, put a piece of paper over the top, and care must also be taken to prevent the bottom of the cake getting discoloured, say by placing an extra baking tin under it. When the cake is cooked, turn it out. and when cool scoop out the inside of the cake and rest it in a basin or mould, nearly fill up the hollow with apricot or any other fruit P^ije. the bottom slice off the piece scooped out of the cake, and fix t.<is over the puree to keep it in when the cake is turned over, (-r.are all over with coffee glace.—Mrs. A. B Marshall. 337. —GRAPE FRUIT BASKETS. Cut some nice grape fruit in half and scrape out the leaving the skin intact. Make a syrup of four tablespoonfuls ot cherry brandy, a little sugar, and two tnblespoonfu s of blanche' peanuts. Add the pulp, and let it remain for three-quarters of an