Menus for Every Day of the Year. 4^2 Marshall’s liquid carmine, and when cooling pour it out on to a tin to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Put it aside on ice set, stamp it out with a small fancy cutter, and use.—Mrs A B. Marshall. 517.—NESSELRODE ICE PUDDING. Take tw'enty peeled chestnuts blanched in boiling water for five minutes, the inner skin peeled off, and the kernels stirred into a pint of syrup flavoured with a stick of vanilla. The chestnuts then simmered until soft, drained, and pressed through a sieve. Four yolks of eggs, 11b. of sifted sugar, and a pint of boiled cream are heated slowly in a double saucepan, and when thick the chestnut puree is added, pressed through a tammy, and half a gill of maraschino added. Then simmer 2or. each of raisins and currants in syrup. The cream is placed in an ice machine, and when half frozen add one gill of whipped cream. Work the pudding until almost bard, then stir in the raisins and currants and finish freezing. Serve the following cold sauce in a boat : Saijce.—One and a half gills of boiled cream, four yolks of eggs, 2oz. of sugar, and half a gill of maraschino. Thoroughly mil and use. 518.—PRALINE CREAM AND CHERRIES. Freeze a praline cream mixture in the ice machine till very stiff, and serve in paper ice eases which have been half filled with stoned cherries poached in a liqueur-flavoured syrup. Cherry and pineapple salad or banana and cherry macedoine are also good combinations. 519.—MOCK ICE PUDDING. Make one and a half pints of rich custard, add two table- spoonfuls of brandy and two of the syrup of preserved ginger, loz. of 3ultanas, 2oz. of glace cherries, and two small preserved oranges cut into dice. Melt loz. of gelatine in half a gill of milk; add to the above mixture. Stir all thoroughly together. Pour into a mould to set. Serve cold with whipped cream. 520.—VERMICELLI SOUFFLE. Soak one teacupful of vermicelli in tepid water for four hours, and chop it into fine pieces. Whisk the whites of four eggs very stiff; stir into them two dessertspoonfuls of sugar, half a wine- glassful of sherry, and the vermicelli. Mix well, pour into a buttered mould, and stand the mould in a dish oi warm water halfway up. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Turn out, and serve hot or cold with whipped cream. 521.—FRUIT ICE CREAM. Make a rich fruit salad of a cooked apple cut in slices, a few peeled and stoned grapes, a banana cut in slices, some rasp- berries, strawberries, and red currants. Pour one glass of sherry, one of maraschino, and two of melted apple jelly ' hot1 over it. Lay it all in the bottom of a china souffle dish and mix thoroughly together. Make a plain vanilla ice cream and pile it high over the fruit, and serve at once.