Menus for Every Day of the Year. 4-3- 344 — BAVAROISE OF PEACHES. Line a mould with lemon jelly. Take the remainder of the jelly, three-quarters of a pint, melt it, and when fairly cool add two tablespoonfuls of apricot pulp and a gill and a half of stiffly whipped cream. Have a tin of peaches, cut each half into four, and add to the mixture. Mix slowly not to bruise the peaches, ana fill up the mould. Set on ice to cool. 345.—RASPBERRY AND STRAWBERRY SPONGE. Soak loz. of .Marshall’s gelatine in a breakfastcupful of co.d water for twenty minutes. Add two breakfastcupfuls of boiling water. When cool, add ilb. ot sugar, one pint ol raspberry or strawberry juice, the whites of two eggs, and the juice of two lemons. Whisk all thoroughly for twenty minutes, and pour into a shape to cool. 346»—COCOANUT PUDDING. Boil 2oz. of butter with 3oz. of sifted sugar. Pour into a basin, and add 21oz. of desiccated cocoanut, the grated rind of a lemon, and three well-beaten eggs. Beat all thoroughly together, ana bake in a buttered mould for three-quarters of an hour. Serve hoi with lemon sauce. 347.—TAPIOCA CREAM. Boil a teacupful of tapioca, in just enough milk to cover, ti l tender; drain it. Mix over the fire ■with one pint of cream, a little, sugar to taste, the yolks of three eggs, beaten, loz. of gelatine, and a few drops of vanilla essence, until it is a good custard. Pour into a mould, and let cool. 348. —CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. Melt 3oz. of chocolate in three breakfastcupfuls of milk. Add four eggs, a little sugar, and one teaspoonful ot cornflour. CV k like an ordinary boiled custard in a stewpan over the fire for about twenty minutes. Fill some little custard glasses with the custard, and serve with whipped cream on top. 349. —ORANGES A LA SEINE. Peel six oranges, remove all pith and pips, and cut them into quarters. Lay them in a piedisli, and sprinkle with caster sugar Make a good custard, flavour it with vanilla essence; pour it ever the oranges. Whip the whites of the eggs, cover the top, and bake in the oven for thirty minutes. 350.—TAPIOCA SWEET. Boil three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in one pint of milk until tender. Add when cool the yolks of two eggs, a few drops of vanilla essence, and a little sugar. Whip the whites .1 the ego till stiff and add to the mixture, stirring all thoroughly over the lire for three minutes. Pour into a damp mould, and set t cool. Turn out, and servo with a fruit salad round it. 361.—ANANAS PUDDING. Take a. stale sponge cake and cut it in slices ,111. thick, and fry theso a little in butter. Lay one on a dish, nud cover with preserved pineapple. Repeat this three times, and finish off with a pilo of whipped cream, add a wineglassful of liqueur to a pint of the pineapple juice, and pour round the dish, and serve cold.