Advertisements. XI MARQUIS et CIE.’S DAINTIES. 48, High Street, Bloomsbury, London, W C Extract from ‘‘The Lancet”:— “ We need say nothing of the well-known appetising character of food prepaiations of the above order. It remains only to record that the above preparations, which are of the High-class kind, were found to be entirely free from objectionable preservatives, while all risk of metallic contamination is obviated by the preparations being contained in glass jars, closed and sealed by atmospheric pressure. This is a method of packing food which we strongly recommend." Purettes of Meat and Fish. Foie Gras Truftled. Sardines with Tomatoes. Chicken and Tongue. Soupes Consomme for Invalids. Bisque d’Ecrevissen. Creme Royal. Potage Richelieu. Chicken Trufiled. Salmon and Shrimp. Game, &c., <&c. de Luxe. Petite Marmite. Clear Turtle. l.'onsommeaux Pointes d’Asperges. Potage Gibier, tfec., ifcc. Pressed Beef. Galantines of Chicken. Ox Tongue. Raised Pies.—Pigeon. Pheasant, Grouse, &c. Turkey. Boned. Stuffed and Truffled. In Glass, Roast Chicken. Boned and Stuffed. In Glass, Roast Chicken, Boned, Stuffed and T ruffled. Extract from “The Queen”:— Th. Marquis et Cie. will relieve the housewife of all anxiety and doubt. Here some Excellent Specialities, the very thing for Picnics, &c.,can be found at a moment’s notice; indeed,every item for the emergency store cupboard will be found there By the way, it would be well if all housewives.especially those living in the country, were well provided in this particular department. Again, for those who migrate to furnished apartments, where dainty dishes are not always available, a hamper of Th. Marquis et ^ la's Preparations ready for the table, for instance, would provide the variety which is good for all men! Raised Pies of all kinds, of the most excellent quality Entrees of every description ready for tbe table. Galantines and Braised and Pressed Beef in boxes of vaiious sizes." MEW SPECIALITIES. Sift Herring Roes, Devil Sauce, Soft Herring Roes, Tomato Sauce, in Klass jars. Pate de Lievre, Pate de Perdreau, Pate de Faisan, Pate de Grouse. Putt: de Canard Sauvjge, Pate de Veau et Jambon. Any of the abot’c ran he ohtoined Jrom all high-class Stores ami Orocet s throughout th• Kingdom. PRICE LIST ON APPLICATION.