425 Recipes. cornflour, also the well-beaten yollts of four eggs. When all has been well stirred, add the whites of the eggs whipped stiff, and immediately bake the souffle in a hot oven for thirty minutes or less. For pear or strawberry souffles use the same quantities ol Fruit as equal five apricots. 305.—LEMON PUDDING. Chop Jib. of suet and mix with Jib. of breadcrumbs and 4oz. of Demerara sugar, 4oz. of flour, the juice of two lemons, and the grated rind of one lemon. Make into a batter with two eggs and a little milk, put iuto a pudding basin, and boil for three and a half hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 306.—BRANDY CHERRIES IN GLASSES. Take the required number of champagne glasses. Place six brandy cherries in each and a little of the juice. Cover with whipped cream, and serve very cold or iced. 307.—BEAUFORT PUDDING. Warm loz. of butter in a stewpan, and stir into it one table- spoonful of flour. Dissolve a tablespoonful of sugar in half a pint of milk. When the milk boils add it to the paste, with six drops of vanilla essence. Whislc all together. When well mixed let it boil again. Leave till cold, and then add the yolks of two eggs, and whisk all thoroughly. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them into the pudding. Place in a buttered mould, cover with grated bread, and steam for an hour. Serve with a wine sauce. 308.—WELSH PUDDTNG. Three-quarters of a pound of breadcrumbs, (lour, suet, ground rice and sugar, the juice and rind of a lemon, two eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of marmalade. Mix thoroughly, and boil five hours in a basin (mix overnight). Arrowroot sweet sauce with flavouring of orange wine or juice of orange. The same may be made in variety by substituting raspberry jam, and for the sauce, rasp- berry vinegar. 309. -PINEAPPLE TOAST. Cut some pieces of sponge cake half an inch thick, and lay some slices of pineapple the same size on top of them. Arrange on a dish alternate slices of cake and pineapple; grate a little nutmeg over. Take the syrup of the pineapple, add to it a glass of liqueur brandy; pour this round the dish. Pile whipped cream over the pineapple and cake, and ornament with preserved rose leaves. 310.—CHOCOLATE OMELET. Have loz. of powdered chocolate. Break four eggs into a basin, and beat very thoroughly. Stir in the chocolate and half a tea- spoonful of finest sugar. Melt 2oz. of butter in a pan. When hot. add the mixture, and stir quickly till it sets. Serve very hot with chocolate sauce. 311—BAVAROTSE A LA CEYLON. Put into a stewpan lioz. of caster 3ugar and three-quarters of a pint of new milk. Bring it to the boil, and add to it 2oz. of Fry's Caracas chocolate Stir till boiling. Let it simmer till smooth, and mix into it Joz. of Marshall's finest leaf gelatine, and