47^ Menus for Every Day of the Year. 592.—MACAROON OMELET SOUFFLE. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix with them one and a half tablespoonfuls of caster sugar, one teaspoonful of minced can< peel, three finely .crumbled macaroons, and one dessertspoonful of cornflour. Mix all thoroughly, and add the whites of the four eggs beaten stiff. Bake in the oven in a well-buttered tin for about twenty minutes. It can be turned out and served with a sweet sauce 593.—SUMMER CREAM. To one pint of cream allow -Jib. of powdered sugar. When cool, but not cold, mix with it three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, strained, and the grated rind of two lemons. Take a nice-shaped sponge cake, cut it in slices, and spread the mixture on them, keeping them in shape. Before sending to table pour over the remainder of the cream and sprinkle with chopped and blanched pistachio nuts, and serve quite cold. 594.—COLD COFFEE PUDDING. Grease with butter a. fancy mould, break in some stale sponge cakes till nearly full, then pour over the following mixture : Four eggs, one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of coffee essence, and sugar to taste, also a few drops of Marshall’s vanilla essence. Beat all together, steam one hour. When cold, turn into a silver dish, and garnish with whipped cream and burnt almonds cut into strips. 595.—MILANAISE SOUFFLE. Put the yolks of three eggs, Soz. of caster sugar, the grated rind and juice of two and a half lemons into a saucepan, and stir them quickly over the fire till as thick as golden syrup, and let them get cool. Soak 1 oz. of gelatine in half a gill of water and stir till dissolved, and add it to the lemon mixture. Whip half a pint of cream in a basin, and add the other ingredients. When cooler, mix in lightly the well-wliisked whites of three eggs. Stir all lightly to blend well, then fill a mould with a paper round it, and let the mixture stand quite an inch higher than the edge. Let it get cold, and serve with cream and some chopped pistachio nut on top. 596.—BLACK CURRANT CREAM. Stew lib. of black currants with a pint of water. When well cooked, pass through a. strainer to extract all juice. Dissolve in it Soz. of Marshall’s gelatine and 11b. of sugar, pass through a tammy, and -when cooling pour into a mould fa fancy one with a pipe is best). When ready to serve, turn out. and garnish with whipped cream that has been sweetened and flavoured with maraschino, using a bag with a rose pipe. One pound of jam answers the same purpose. 597.—APPLE OR RHUBARB MOULD. Take six or eight good stalks, cut into small pieces, and stew gently until it is in shreds. Strain through a tammy cloth, and before rubbing through the tammy cloth put aside one teacnpfnl of the juice, then rub the rhubarb through the tammy cloth, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of the essence of ginger. Dissolve eight leaves of Marshall’s gelatine: add this ta the rhubarb, and a breakfastcupful of stiffly whipped cream. Whip