399 Recipes. and mix the beans into it„ Make quite hot, and then dish up. Garnish with little croutons cut in the shape of small cutlets, and fried in clean fat or clarified butter, and masked over with the yolk of hard-boiled egg which has been passed through a wire sieve, and with cooked tongue passed in the same manner. Put the croutons round the beans, and sprinkle the centre of the beans over with a very little chopped parsley or chopped truffle. Mrs. A B. Marshall. 173.—MAYONNALSE OF GOD. Cook some codfish, or use the remains of cooked, fish, and cut it into neat pieces. Lay them in a dish and sprinkle a little vinegar, pepper, oil, and salt over them, and leave for half an hour. Then drain them on a cloth. Shred some lettuce, and pile it hi the centre of a dish, arrange the cod on the lettuce and round it, and mask it all over with a mayonnaise sauce. G-arnish with chopped aspic on top and round the base, and hard-boiled eggs and anchovies arranged on it. 174. -CHERRY SALAD. To the cherries should be added filleted anchovies, finely minced young onions, and chopped bacon, together with oil, lemon juice, and freshly ground black pepper and salt. A few spoonfuls of the cherry juice in which cherries have been kept can be used if it is not very sweet, but if preserved in syrup a small dessertspoonful of the latter will be enough. 175. —LOBSTER ASPIC. Chop the meat of a lobster finely. Melt loz. of butter in a saucepan and add loz. of flour, moistening with a gill of milk and half the quantity of cream. Stir well over the fire until the sauce has thickened, then mix this with the minced lobster, season with cayenne, salt, and white pepper, and spread on a plate. When quite cold, cut into cutlet shapes. Have ready some clear savoury aspic jelly, melt it, and pour into a shallow dish. When set. arrange the cutlets on the jelly and garnish with a little minced parsley and finely chopped white of egg. Pour a little more dis- solved jelly round the cutlets, and when set divide and reverse, coating them on the other side with aspic, slipping in a short length of lobster feeler at one end to simulate a cutlet bone. Serve with chopped lettuce. 176.—VEAL GALANTINE. Mince lib. of fresh veal finely, and mince it with lib. of minced cooked beefsteak and a Jib. each of lean ham and streaky bacon chopped finely. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and stir in the beaten white of an egg, working the whole into a stiff paste. Then roll out the puree on a. pastry board and spread it with two hard-boiled eggs cut in thin slices, a teaspoonful of chopped pistachio nuts, and the same quantity of coarsely chopped truffle. Form into a large roly-poly tie round with buttered paper, secure with string, and fry the roll in butter until all sides are browned. Have ready some good, strong gravy or thick stock, and cook slowly, basting it continually until it is ready. Then set on one side, and when cold glaze the galantine and garnish with aspic jelly, cut into neat triangles and stars.