Recipes 411 233.—RICE AU GRATIN. Chop one onion and fry it in butter for five _ minutes, add six tablespoonfuls of rice, and cook all for ten minutes. Then add one pint of gravy and simmer till the rice is tender. Stir over the fire 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper, and half a grated nutmeg, and a small piece of butter, mix_ all well together, and serve heaped in the centre of a dish with baked tomatoes round it. It can also be served with slices of fried liver or rissoles. 234.—CAULIFLOWER SALAD. Take four small cauliflowers and cook them in salted water till tender, but not too soft, put them on a cloth to drain thoroughly, cut each one in half, and put them on a soup plate, pour over the following sauce, and let them lie in it an hour before using. When ready to send to table put the cauliflower on a sieve to drain for a few minutes, then pile up in a salad bowl and pour over the dressing, sprinkle over a little finely chopped gherkin and some red carrot rubbed through a sieve as a garnish. Sauce : One tahlespoonful each of Worcester sa,uce, anchovy sauce, tarragon and chilli vinegars, half a teaspoonful of mustard. 235.—STUFFED ONIONS. Boil six onions until quite tender. Cut off the tops and remove some of the inside. Fill it with minced chicken, salt and pepper, and serve hot with the following sauce : Put into a pan the insides of the onions, loz. of butter, one bayleaf, a pinch of chopped thyme, salt and pepper, and a pinch of cinnamon. Keep simmering for fifteen minutes, add half a pint of milk, and bring to the boil. Put all through a very fine sieve, and pour very hot over the onions 236. —BEETROOT CROUTES. Cut some Jin thick slices from a well-cooked beetroot. Fry these in melted butter till the edges become slightly brown. Serve them very hot on a fried crouton, and sprinkle with chopped parsley, some pepper and salt, and put a small piece of parsley butter on the centre of each. 237. —POTATO GEORGETTE. Wash and bake as many potatoes as required, all one size; when cooked cut a slice off one side for the lid and take out all the inside and put it through a wire sieve. Cut up a lobster in very small pieces, add to it half a cupful of very thick cream, the potatoes, and a small piece of butter; flavour with a little grated nutmeg, salt, Marshall's coralline pepper, and a little lemon juice. Warm all thoroughly, stirring lightly with a fork, refill the potato skins with the mixture, put the lids on the top, and return to the oven for five minutes. Serve very hot. 238. —SAVOURY TOMATOES. Scoop out the inside of some tomatoes of a good round shape, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and bake them until tender. Take the pulp of the tomatoes, one well-beaten egg. one table- spoonful of Bechamel sauce, two of Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper, and a good-sized piece of butter. Stir all together over the fire until it thickens, then fill the tomatoes with the mixture,