516 Menus for Every Day of the Dear. serving dust them over with the coral, or a little chopped fried PaiSley' 806.—TRIFLES OF PEAS. Cook some peas until tender. Cut some rounds of brown bread very thin, with a 2-inch cutter, and spread a very thin paste o: capers or sardine, or anything savoury, on the bread. Whip some cream, with a very little salt in it, till quite stiff, and mix one tablespoonful of peas and the some of cream, and make a pyramid in the bread. 807.—CHEESE AIGRETTES. Boil together one gill of water and one of milk. Sift and or. 3oz of flour and stir into the milk slowly. Drop in the yolks of three eggs and beat all together, add salt and pepper, a.^=o lioz grated Parmesan cheese. Whip the whites of the eggs "rj - add them. Let this all get cool, then drop one. spoonful at a time into boiling fat. Dish them up on a napkin and sprmh. them with cheese and chopped fried parsley. 808. —INDIAN FRITTERS. Make a mixture with four tablespoonfuls of minced fowl one anchovy, pepper, and twc tablespoonfuls of curry paste, and one of chopped raisins. Form this into little flat cakes. Roll them in a batter, and drop into boiling fat for two minutes. Serve on a napkin very hot. 809. —GRENADA TOASTS. Cut some fat and lean bacon into rather fine dice, give them a few turns on the fire, with a very little minced onion pars ey pepper, and salt, the yolks of eggs, and stir till a forcemeat is formed. Spread on slices of bread, cut into tancy shapes, ana fry in butter till a golden brown. Serve very hot with men parsley' 810.—OYSTERS ON TOAST. Take seven rounds of toast and spread on them four anchovies, rubbed through a wire sieve with a pat of butter, cut out fquric... nieces of fat bacon, the same size as the toast; lay one Piece on the toast and put one oyster on it, and sprinkle with .*11 m* pepper and a. squeeze of lemon juice, and place the other P of baron on the top of it. Bake in n sharp oven till the bacon i cooked, and serve. Sprinkle with chopped parsley before sending to table. 811.—TARTELETTES A L'ECOSSAISE. Prepare some small tartlets of puff pastry, each one being: not larger than a. five-shilling piece. Bake them, but atJthe isame time take care not to colour them. Take a cooked smoked haddock flake it finely, discarding t.lie skin and bones, mix ^itli a liHle curry sauce! and fill the tartlets with the mixture. Return them to the oven /or a moment or two so as to heat thoroughly, and serve at once. 812.—ANCHOVY ECLAIRS. Wipe and bone some anchovies, and season with a prnch cn Marshall’s coralline pepper; roll each ui a thin piece ot v