3yS Menus for Every Day of the Year. tablespoonful of flour, one onion, a bunch of parsley, pepper, sail, nutmeg, and half a pint of good white stock. Stir these ingre- dients until they boil, then put in the pieces of pork and stew gently. When done, remove the onion and parsley, lay the pieces of pork neatly on a dish, beat the yolks of two eggs with the juice of a lemon, and stir them into the sauce off the fire. Then pour the sauce over the pork. 169.—KIDNEY SAUTE. Prepare the kidneys and cut them into slices. Fry them in butter for two minutes, then drain them, and drop into some boiling brown gravy, and let them simmer in this for three minutes. Serve them on slices of tomato grilled. 170.—STUFFED LEEKS. LEEKS A LA MEDITEREANEE Take some perfectly fresh young leeks and trim off the tops, cleanse them thoroughly from grit, and tie six or eight together with a string, and put them into a saucepan to blanch. Tak; n and put them into a stewpan with enough chicken, veal, or rabbit stock to cover them. Place a cover on the pan, and let them cook till tender, which will take two or three hours, according to the:r age. Then take up on a plate or dish and untie and separate them, split each leek open, and fill them inside with cooked sausage meat, placing a piece in each about the size of a finger. Fold eacn leek into its natural form and roll it into fine flour, then into whole beaten-up egg and into freshly made white breadcrumbs, and fry in clean boiling fat for about eight to ten minutes. Di=h cn a hot dish, and serve with slices of cooked tomato in the centre —Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 171.—SCRAMBLED EGG AND PEAS Cook some peas in a little water with an onion and salt. When tender, remove the onion and strain the peas. Put them in a pan with salt and pepper and some butter, and stir them. Throw in four well-beaten eggs, and stir till the eggs are' set. Serve on rounds of toast very hot. 171a.—MAYONNAISE OF CUCUMBER. Mix to a cream the beaten yolk of one egg, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Add some olive oil. a few drops at a time, until the mixture is thick, and stir wed Then add more lemon mice and oil altematelv until hflf a pmt r\, has been used. Grate a peeled cucumber and add three table- spoonfuls of it to the mayonnaise. Fry some thin fillets of so.e, and serve with the sauce over them. 172.—FRICASSEE OF BROAD BEANS. Take the young beans for this dish; they should be shelled just before cooking. Put them in boiling water with a little salt and a small bunch of herbs, such as thyme, parsley, and baylea.f. Cook for fifteen minutes, then strain and take off the outer skins. Boil up half a pint of well-flavoured white stock, either veal, rabbit, or chicken. Mix Lcz of butter and tiie same weight of flour together in a stewpan. stir the stock into the pan, and when it boils nux in a good tab espoonful ot cream, one raw yolk of egg, the juice of half a large lemon, and a dust of coralline pepper. Stir on the stove till it thickens, strain.