Menus for Every Day of the Year. 488 654.—TURBOT WITH MUSHROOMS. Clean a small turbot and remove the fillets from the bone Butter a tin and lay in the fillets, seasoning with pepper and salt and lemon juice. Put a buttered paper over it, and cook it in a fairly hot oven for ten minutes. Add a little cream over the fish and cook for another five or sir minutes. In ti. meantime grill some fresh mushrooms by putting a pinch of salt in the centre of each and placing in a pan. Serve up the fillets of turbot on a flat dish, and with an arrangement oi mushrooms down the centre of each fillet. Hand a plain butter sauce 655.—LOBSTER A LA CLARKE. Fillet a good lemon sole and cut into nice sized pieces. Cover one side thickly with lobster farce, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes or less. Put it aside to get cold. Serve on a bed of salad ornamented with fancy aspic shapes. Lobster Farce.—Poimd 4oz. of lobster till smooth, add one tec- spoonful of anchovy essence, a little pepper, and enough cream to make a paste, and use. 656.—BOUILLABAISSE. Put in a saucepan one onion, one sprig of parsley, two bay- leaves, three cloves, two carrots, salt, and pepper, and 3lb. weight of any fish, such as smelts, plaice, sprats, red mullet, sole, white- bait, flounder, whiting. Over the fish, which should be cut into long fillets, put three tablespoonfuls of oil, a pinch of allspice, some more salt and pepper, and just cover with water. Put the lid well down on the saucepan, and boil for twenty minutes. Drain the fish and serve it piled up on a dish, and cover it. Strain the soup and serve at the same time. 657.—LOBSTER RAGOUT. Remove all the meat from a cooked lobster, and warm it up in a little fish stock, seasoning it with cloves, onion, a bayleaf, and parsley. Strain it, and lay in a buttered dish which has been sprinkled with grated breadcrumbs, sprinkle a few drops of lemon over it, and pepper. Pour a rich Espagnol sauce over all, and set in the oven for a few minutes. Grate a very little Parmesan cheese over the top, and ornament with the coral and fried parsley. Serve very hot in the dish. 658.—PRAWN SALAD. Boil together in a little water, some parslev, tarragon, chervil, and a sliced onion. When tender, strain them, and to every two tablespoonfuls add three turned olives, one gherkin, one boned anchovy, and pound in a mortar. Add a little salt and pepper, and six tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce, one pint liquid aspic jelly, 100 picked and cleaned prawns, and some mustard and cress or any finely cut salad. Line a mould with aspic jelly fairly thick. Pour in the mixture, and set it on ice to cool. Serve on a bed of salad. 659.—SOLE A LA SEFTON. Put four large fillets of sole on a buttered baking tin, season with a little lemon juice, salt, and coralline pepper; lay a