467 Recipes. lias been well flavoured with liqueur about an eighth of an inch thick, and set the cherries all round it; then fill up with cherries and jelly until the mould is full. When set turn out on to a silver dish, and if your mould has a pipe in it, fill up the space with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. 543.-ITALIAN MERINGUES. Beat up six whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, adding a pinch of salt before commencing to whisk. Add slowly 11b. of very fine caster sugar, 2oz. of peeled and coarsely chopped or shredded Jordan almonds, and about Joz. of crystallised orange fliiwers. Shape the meringues on buttered baking tins, or put the mixture equally divided into squares or oval paper cases, and bake in a very slack oven for an hour. Dredge with sugar in either case. 544.—BARBERRY CREAM. Buy lib. of barberry jelly and half melt it, add joz. of gelatine which has been soaked in cold water, and melt together over the fire. Stir in half a pint of milk and half a pint of thick cream and half a toaspoonful of brandy. Stir for five minutes. Pour into a wet mould and let it set. 545.—SWEET VERMICELLI PUDDING. One and a half teacupfuls of vermicelli, two tablespoonfuls of marmalade, 2oz. of sultanas, two eggs, milk. Soak the vermicelli in a little hot milk to cover it for fifteen minutes; then stir in the eggs, sultanas, marmalade, and sugar to taste. Mix thoroughly. Boil in a pudding basin for one and three-quarter hours. Serve with melted marmalade sauce. 546 -RUSK PUDDING. Make a cold custard with a little gelatine in it. Dip in it enough rusks to line the size of mould required. Fill up the centre with alternate layers of fruit and custard. Leave to set well before turning out. 547.—BANANA RICE. Boil 3oz. of rice until tender in a saucepan with 2oz. of caster sugar, a stick of cinnamon, and the rind of half a lemon and one pint of milk. Remove the cinnamon. Soak Joz. of gelatine in some cold water, then dissolve it slowly in the rice and milk, and let it cool a little. Cut three bananas into little rounds and add them, also a quarter of a pint of whipped cream. Pour into a mould, and let it set. Serve very cold with cream. 548.—COMPOTE OF CHESTNUTS. Boil some chestnuts. Whip up half a pint of cream, and pile high on a dish. Rub the chestnuts _ through a sieve on to the cream. I eel and skin some mandarine oranges as for a salad, place round the dish, mix the juice of a few oranges with a table- spoonful of curagoa, pour round the dish, and serve. 549.—APPLE CREAM. Stew Jib. of apples with the oeel on till tender, adding sugar according to the kind of apple. Rub through a sieve, and let cool. Dissolve joz. of gelatine in as little water as possible-. Whip up H H 2