474 Menus for Every Day of the Year. 582.—CREAM WAFERS. Cream together in a basin lloz. of fresh batter, half a teaspoon- ful of lemon rind (.grated;, loz. of caster sugar, and six drops of vanilla essence. When well mixed add slowly ljoz. of sifted flour and egg which has been well beaten. When smoothly mixed spread with a pallette knife a buttered baking tin in very thin pieces, about by inches. Put in a quick oven to bake. Turn frequently until a nice brown. Spread a little apricot jam on one wafer, then a thin layer of stiffly whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Put another wafer on top, sprinkle a little sifted sugar over it, and serve cold. 583.—TUTTI FRUTTI ICE PUDDING. 1. Mix together one glass sherry, one pint of cream, one glass of fruit syrup and 7oz. of sugar, and the juice of one lemon, and half freeze this mixture. Cut j 1 b. of preserved fruits into small dice and mix them with the ice, and finish freezing it. It can then be put in a mould to set, or can be served in little paper ice cases with fruit wafers. 2. Chop up lioz. of dried cherries, tvb preserved greengages, loz. of candied orange peel, joz. of citron. Make a custard with the yolks of five eggs and one pint of milk and ilb. of sugar, and freeze it. Make a paste of the whites of two eggs, a little sugar, and half a pint of whipped cream, and add to the frozen mixture with a glass of maraschino. Work these in the freezer for a minute, and add lastly the fruits, and mould it. 584.—GROUND IUCE SOUFFUE. Boil together 3oz. of ground rice and half a pint of milk, and put aside to cool. Beat together 2oz. of butter, 2oz. of sugar, half a teaspoonful vanilla, and the yolks of three eggs. Add the milk and rice. When mixed, add 4oz. of stoned cherries which have been stewed a little, and, lastly, beat in the stiffly whipped whites of the three eggs. If the eggs are small, put four whites in. Put into a buttered tin, and bake in a good oven for about forty minutes 585.—BREAD TRIFLE Cut two rounds of bread i-incb thick and 6 inches across. Put in the bottom of a glass dish, and put some strawberry jam on it. Place the second round on top, and cut them into slices from the centre down, like a cake, leaving them in position. Pour two glasses of sherry over and a thin sprinkling of macaroons grated finely. Pour a thick custard over and put a pyramid of whipped cream on the top. Decorate with crystallised fruits or fresh strawberries. 586.—PRALINE CUSTARDS. Mix a quarter of a pint of cream and half a pint of milk, 2oz. of sugar, and the yolks of four eggs and a little vanilla essence, and thicken them over the fire. Dissolve loz. of gelatine in naif a pint of milk, and mix with the rest when both have cooled a little. Whip a quarter of a pint of double cream and add it. Pour it into a. mould to set or into little moulds, and serve cola with whipped cream and praline almonds on top, which are done by blanching the almonds and cutting them into small pieces Lay