Menus for Every Day of the Year. 5i8 820.—ICED CHEESE SAVOURY. Whip half a pint of cream to a stiff froth and add it to half a pint of savoury aspic, previously beaten lightly. Mir 6oz. of finely grated cheese, seasoning with cayenne pepper and salt. Stir all thoroughly together, and press into a fiat mould— a tin biscuit box answering the purpose admirably. Freeze for an hour or two. Then prepare some rounds of brown bread, spread them with the iced mixture, and keep on ice till required. 821.—TONGUE TOAST. Make some small squares of buttered toast. Have three tabic- spoonfuls of chopped tongue, warm this in a little tomato ketchup, salt, and pepper. When hot, pile it on toast, and serve at once with grated yolk of egg on top. It may also be serveo on a slice of tomato. 822.—NEW BISCUITS. Have some very thin plain and crisp biscuits. Chop finely three anchovies, the whole of one hard boiled egg, and one tablespoonfui of cucumber. Put a slice of plain aspic jelly on the biscuit, and arrange _ the mixture on it in a little heap. Dish up with chopped aspic and watercress. 823.—STUFFED MACARONI. Boil until tender eight pieces of macaroni, 21 inches in length Make a paste of grated Parmesan cheese, yolk of egg. sardine, and cream. Roll into thin straws. Slit open the macaroni, insert the paste. Fold it over again, warm in the oven, and serve on toast fingers. 824.—GRILLED MACKEREL BONES. Remove the bones of a boiled mackerel. Sprinkle plenty of pepper and salt over them, and broil them over a clear fire till quite crisp. Serve them on toast (hot). 825.—ANCHOVIES A LA DICK. Take six anchovies, 11b. cooked chicken, one olive, a little- pepper a small teaspoonful of Marshall's curry powder, one teaspoonful of chutney, one tablespoonfui of brown sauce Mix all the ingredients together except the chicken and anchovies which chop up finely, then mix all well together, then take out some puff paste, roll it out thin, and with a fancy cutter cut out as many rounds as you require. Place some of the mixture in the centre of each piece of pastry, brush the edges ot the pastry with beaten up egg and fix together then brush all over with the egg and roll in freshly made breadcrumbs, then try in clean boiling lard till a golden colour. Place them on a imp km on a dish, garnish them with parsley, and serve very hot or a savoury 826.—PRAWNS WITH CAVIARE Cut out, by moans of a plain cutter, some little rounds <4 stale bread about the size of a crown piece, and a quarter ot an inch thick. Fry them in clarified butter or boiling W,' n golden colour, then put them to gel cool and wlien cold pW on each three pieces of caviare the size of a Spanish niit and place between each of these a prawn and a few shreds of l rend.