374 Menus for Every Day of the Fear. mix into it four yolks of eggs, and stir until it thicken-, three dozen oysters into a stewpan, let them got hot in their li(juor, add'a few chopped truffles, and then add them to the mu<‘ Put aside until cold, then make it up into cutlet shapes, using a little flour, egg and breadcrumb and fry a pale golden colour. When cooked place a stem of parsley on the top ol. each, arrant a. cutlet frill on these, and garnish the centre with nicely ined parsley. Serve very hot. 53.—HADDOCK AND TOMATOES. Cut a fresh haddock into fillets and fry it a nice brown Cut some tomatoes into slices and fry them in the pan wit.i the fish, and serve them on top with a little meltec butter 54- HOT FISH OMELET. Separate the whites from the yolks of two eggs, beat the jhites to a stiff froth. Put a piece of butter about the me* of a wabmt into another basin, with the yolks and about a table^pooniul of any cold white fish broken into small pieces, f to taste, and mix well together. Put a piece of. butter into a very clean frying pan, and when it is very hot mix the two lot of eggs together, put into the pan. and stir until set Let it remain on the fire for about two minutes then brown the top m front of the fire, and turn out on a hot dish. 55.—SARDINE TOAST. Bone ten sardines and make into a paste in a mortar with one tablespoonful of syrup from chutney, add a httie salt and mustarK and pile the mixture on rounds of toast W arm in the oven, letting it get too dry, and serve chopped parsley over. 56.—GAME IN SHELLS. scallop" shells and^splinkle^Uh hreadcrumb^put in pepper 57.—OVERTURNED EGGS. Hard boil four eggs, cut in half, and remove the y,oik*. Fill the white of the egg with remains of fish. «Br awning • i «ot.-r:f the com sis —d edge of the toast. Can he served hot or cold. 58—SAUSAGE MEAT CAKES. Buy lib. of sausage meat and add to it .pepper, jail aid four and brendcrumb! alTfrfa nice brown" SeiWwith tomato sauce 59.—VEAL CREAM. Pound in tS: S' ondl.LV. und Mi, w«ll with , «ood™ .P~«