429 Recipes. 325.—PINEAPPLE PUDDING. This is made with tinned pineapple chunks in exactly the same manner as an apple pudding. As a sauce, serve some of the syrup, flavoured with a little of any liqueur, and some thick cream. 326.—RICE FRITTERS. Cook a breakfastcupful of rice in two pints of milk, loz. of butter, 2oz. of sugar, until quite tender. Then strain away the milk entirely. Add to the rice three eggs, well beaten, and four tablespoonfuls of marmalade. Stir it all over the tire till the eggs are firm, then spread the mixture on a dish to cool. It should be a lin. thick. When cold, cut into squares, dip in a batter, and fry a nice brown. Dust some sugar over. 327.—APRICOT SANDWICHES. Make some puff paste in thin lengths of 3 inches and 2 inches wide. Day some apricot jam between two pieces, and some beaten- up white of egg on top, piled high. 328.—PISTACHIO CREAM. Blanch -Jib. of pistachio nuts and pound into a paste with a tea- spoonful of brandy. Add one and a half pints of cream, and sugar to taste. Stir over the fire till thick. Pour into a glass dish and let cool. Ornament with pistachio nuts. 329.- -VANILLA CREAM. Melt loz. of gelatine into three-quarters of a pint of cream, and beat up well, add half a glass of sherry and six drops of vanilla. Pour into a well-oiled mould, and let cool. 330.—CUSTARD JELLIES. Melt the remains of lemon jelly, add a little maraschino. Fill three-quarters full some little glasses. Fill the remainder of the glass with custard, and on top put a fancy shape of pink jelly. 331.—LEMON BEIGNETS. 1. Bring to the boil -loz. of butter, 2oz. of caster sugar, in half a pint of water. Sift into it 5oz. of flour. Mix well, and cook for fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. Lot it cool; add separately and slowly three eggs and the juice of half a lemon. When cooi, squeeze through a forcing pipe, and drop into boiling fat in lengths ot about lm.. Cook thorn for ten minutes turning constantly. Dish up very hot on a napkin, and .sprinkle with caster sugar. BEIGNET SOUFFLE. 2. Boil together in a pan a quarter of a. pint of water loz of caster sugar, 2oz. of butter. When it boils add 2oz. of flour stir well and cook tor six minutes. When halt cold add two eggs and eight drops ol vanilla essence. Mix all thoroughly, and put into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe. Force out pieces an inch long, cut them off, and drop into boiling fat, and cook them or eight minutes or more, turning them all the time, till a light brown and the size of an egg. Dish in a napkin and sprinkle with easier suff&r.