Menus for Every Day of the Year. 456 and butter, flavoured with wine. Serve very hot with the sauce round. 484.—STRAWBERRY TART AND APRICOT TART. Prepare a nice open tart with upright sides, and made of short paste. Have lib. of strawberries well picked and cleaned and cut in half; lay these carefully in the tart. Make a syrup by boiling six strawberries in one gill of water and one wine- glassful of liqueur for fifteen minutes and then passing through a sieve and adding to two gills of melted apple jelly. Mir while- hot, and pour over the strawberries. They can be served hot or cold with whipped cream on top. Apricots are served in the same way, but are best cold. 485.—BLANC MANGE A LA PRINCESSE. Boil one pint of cream or milk with ilb. of caster sugar, a little lemon peel, and a bayleaf or cinnamon. Dissolve in this ^oz. of Marshall's finest leaf gelatine, and pass it through the strainer or tammy. Line any pretty mould with lemon jelly, and garnish the lining with little bunches of various kinds of dried fruits that have been mixed with a little of the same jelly and stirred on ice till set, and set them with more jelly to fix them to the mould. Flavour the blanc-mange with a wineglass ■of noyeau syrup and a tablespoonful of Silver Rays (white' rum, and pour it into the mould. Let it set, and when required to be turned out dip the mould for a few seconds in hot water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom to absorb any of the water, turn the blanc-mange on to a dish paper, and serve.-—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 486.—SIAMESE TWINS. Prepare some choux paste, and put it into a forcing bag with a plain pipe. Force it out into two rounds, each about the size of a walnut, join the two together, brush over with whole beaten-up egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour; they should then be a pretty golden colour. When bakea. put them aside till cold, then glaze over with maraschino glace. When this is set, put some cream prepared as below into a forcing bag with a small rose pipe, and force a little rose shape on the top of each ball. Dish up on a dish paper or napkin, and serve for dinner or luncheon sweet, or for any cold collation. Maraschino Glace.—To 51b. of Marshall’s icing sugar add two tablespoonfuls of maraschino syrup, one tablespoonful oi warm water, and six or eight drops of sap green. Mix together, just- warm over the stove, end use at once. . . , Cream for Siamese Twins.—Whip till quite stiff liah a pint of cream, and sweeten it with 2oz. of caster sugar, then add a *ew drops of vanilla essence, a few drops of Silver Rays (white' rum, and six or eight drops of carmine. After this is added, draw a fork through the cream, which will give it a marbled appearance and make a very pretty effect.—Mrs A B. Marshall 487.—STRAWBERRIES IN GLASSES. Have ready six tall ice glasses or champagne glasses, and remove the stalks from about thirty-six mee-sized strawberries and cut them in half. Melt Jib of red currant jelly add to it one gill of maraschino, and soak the strawberries m this tor one