510 Menus for Every Day of the Year. fancy rings, some 2 inches across, some 1 inch, and some 1j im; not rings. Bake in a quick oven till quite crisp. Place the large rings in a dish, then the flat pieces on top, and then the srnal ring, into the centre of which put a piece of anchovy huttcr. Serve cold. 762.—HAM CROUTES. 1. Pound some ham into a paste, and mix with it a little cream and very little anchovy or sardine. Spread it on some finger- shaped croutes. Cut an olive into four pieces and place them across the croute, and serve. 2. Rub some ham through a sieve, and warm it in a very little cream to a thick paste; spread on hot croutes. Put a grilled mushroom on top, and serve very hot with little bunches of fried sultana raisins. 763.—OYSTERS AND MUSHROOMS. Have about six nice large oysters, take off the beards. Then have ready six nicely cooked mushrooms, all one size, not too large; also fry six small croutons of bread. Lay the mushrooms on these, and put them on a tin dish, lay the oysters on each, season well with Marshall’s coralline pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Just make all sufficiently hot without cooking thc- oysters too much, garnish with sprigs of parsley. Very nice breakfast dish or savoury. 764.—SALSIFY CUSTARDS. Put in a saucepan one gill of cream, half a gill of milk, the yolks of three eggs, and a little salt. Stir the mixture until it is about to boil. Take off the fire, and stir in 2oz. of grated salsify, which should be as drj' as possible. Dissolve a sheet of Marshall'? gelatine in a gill of milk, and add to the mixture when both have slightly cooled. Whip all together for three minutes. Place in small moulds, and set on ice to cool. Serve cold on a bed of salad. 765.—SWEETBREAD FRITTERS Cut some thin slices from cooked sweetbread and lay them in tomato ketchup and oil for a few minutes. Then dip them in a thin batter and fry them a light brown. Serve with fried slices of tomato betv'een each fritter and sprinkle all with fried parsley When used as a savoury, place each fritter on a slice of fried tomato and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese. 766.—CALCUTTA TOAST. Remove some cooked sausage meat from tlie skin. To every four tablespoonfuls add one of chopped mango chutney, some pepper and salt. Make into a paste, and put into a ring on a fried croute. Serve very hot, with stiffly whipped cream in the centre 767.—SAVOURY SHRIMPS. Take fifty shrimps and cut each into two halves. Beat up the yolks of three eggs with ten drops of anchovy sauce, and fry some croutes in this mixture. Warm the shrimps, and place in a hollow in the croutes with some of the mixture, and serve very hot with some coralline pepper over each.