Recipes. 435 half an hour Soak in syrup flavoured well with Silver Rays (white) rum. Serve with apricot sauce oyer and round the hasp. —Mrs. A B. Marshall. 363.—LITTLE APPLE TARTS. Make some pastry tartlets. Put in a puree of cooked apple, a small diamond of apple jelly on the top and whipped white of egg round. Serve cold with cream. 364. POIRE MELBA. Take a. deep souffle dish and put some preserved pears in the bottom of it. Melt two tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly, and add to three tablespoonfuls of the pear syrup and two of maraschino. Pour this over the pears, almost covering them, and keep in a cold place. Make some vanilla ice cream, and put it over the pears in the disli, and serve quickly. 366. WINTER PUDDING. Boil three tablespoonfuls of ground rice and 2oz. of bullet sago in one pint of milk till quite tender, add a pinch of salt, one tea- spoonful of sugar. Beat up two eggs well, and add them. Put in a buttered mould, and steam for three hours. 366.—BROWN BREAD PUDDING. Three-quarters of a pound of brow'n breadcrumbs (fairly freshl, three eggs (well beaten), breakfastcupful of sultanas, 51b. of suet finely chopped, three tablespoonfuls of caster sugar, one table- spoonful of sherry, five drops of vanilla essence. Mix all together gradually and thoroughly for ten minutes. Place in a mould, and boil for three and a half hours. Serve hot with a stiff brandy sauce. 367.—BOUITER PUDDING. Melt loz. of gelatine in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, add to it 3oz. of sifted sugar, the juice and rind of one lemon, and the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Mix well, and put into the glass dish in which it will be served. Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff, and stir in slowly, and set on ice to cool. Whipped cream may be piled on top just before serving. 368.—LITTLE RHUBARB CREAMS. Pass 51b of rhubarb jam through a hair sieve, add a Jib. of breadcrumbs. Cream together 2oz. of sugar and same of butter, and add to the mixture. Whip the yolks of two eggs, and add. also Half a gill of cream, and beat all together for five minutes. rSulter some small moulds, and strew them very thinly with ratafias crumbed. Pour in the mixture, and bake in a steady oven tor twenty minutes. 369. BELGRAVE JELLY. Fill the Belgrave mould with lemon jelly that is flavoured with *uine’ 11 li py??s ln, „ roould with a weight, and let it remain tin cold; then fill each of the pipes with hot water, so as to loosen them from the jelly, and take them out. The spaces which the pipes have formed can be filled by means of forcing bags and pipes with a nurce of fruit mixed with cream, or with differently flavoured and coloured creams. Then pour a little more jelly on the top to set the cream. When ready to serve, turn out on to a F F 2 /