472 Mentis for Every Day of the Year Mix all well together, and steam for three hours. This is ~er light, and nice for winter time. 572.—BREAD PUDDING WITH CHERRIES. Soak lib. of bread in cold water till soft Press out the v. ati-r and beat out any lumps with a fork. Add loz. of chopped suet, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and lib. of glace cherries and one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix well, and add one well-beaten egg and three tablespoonfuls of milk. Put into a greased basin and cover with buttered paper, and steam for one and a half hours. 573.—TIMBALE A LA MALTOISE. Work lib of butter to a cream with |lb. of finely chopped almonds that are baked a nice golden colour, add a teaspoonfu: of essence of vanilla, then mix into it lib. of caster sugar. Work this for about ten minutes, and add lib. of creme de riz, eleven eggs by degrees, and 8oz. of fine Hour that has been passed through the sieve. Work the paste again with the flour for tep minutes, then divide into three part3. Colour one part with carmine, one -with a tahlespoonful of Fry’s powdered vanilla chocolate and about a saltspoonful of coffee brown, and leave the remaining one uncoloured. Putthe paste to bake in plain moulds, that are papered and buttered, in a moderate oven for about half an hour, then cut into rings and arrange the colours alternately, .ioining the rings together with a little apricot jam till the timbale is complete; trim it, and glaze with chocolate glace. Ornament with pale green icing and violet leaves. Serve with vanilla cream in the centre and a macedoine of iced fruits in a separate dish. 574.—E.M. PUDDING. Cream together 3oz. of butter and 4oz. of sugar, add two or three eggs, and half a gill of warm milk. Then lighty mix in Goz. of self-raising flour. 2oz. each of candied peel, cherries, and sultanas. Grease some fancy tins, dust some caster sugar am. flour over them, half fill with the mixture, and hake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 575.—COFFEE MOULD. Slowly boil together in a very clean saucepan a Jib. of loaf sugar, one teacupful of strong coffee, $oz. of gelatine, one pint of milk. Boil for ten minutes, add half a teaspoonful vanilla essence. Then pour all into a wet mould and let it set. Serve with thick cream 576.—ARROWROOT SOUFFLE. Take loz. of the best arrowroot, one pint of milk, the rind of half a lemon, -Joz. of caster sugar, two eggs. First prepare eight paper ramekins bv pinning bands of paper round the top oi each Peel the lemon thinly and stew it for ten minutes in three-quarters of the milk, break the arrowroot with the remaining milk, and then strain the flavoured milk over it. Return to the saucepan and stir over the fire till it boils, and cook for two or three minutes^ Remove the pan from the fire, and add the sugar and yolks o. eggs; stir again over the fire, without boiling, for a few minutes to rook the eggs. Take from the fire, and lightly stir into (lie mixture the two whites, beaten to a very stiff froth. Pour at once into the prepared eases and set in a cool place. When cold and