Recipes. 439 thick slices of bread, grate them into a jug, pour over them half a pint of milk and a pint of cream, made sweet with alb. of sugar. Place the fug in a saucepan, and stir the contents over the fire until ii gets thick. A few of the breadcrumbs sifted very finely, may be added, with a glass of any liqueur liked, to the mixture when quite cold. 386.—ANGEL PODDING. Beat two eggs thoroughly, add to them one and a half gills of milk, and beat again; then 2^oz. of flour, and beat; then loz. ot sugar and a quarter of a teaspoonful of vanilla essence and lioz. of melted butter. Stand for nearly an hour, then add halt a tea- spoonful of baking powder, spread it on greased tin plates or saucers, and hake in a sharp oven. Put a little jam on halt ot each, and fold over. Serve very hot. 387.—STUFFED TANGERINE A LA MAROC. Cut away a slice from the top of an orange and lift out the pulp with a silver spoon, taking care not to break the skins. The pulp which is peeled off has to be sliced, and the pips removed with the coarsest part of the subdividing fibres. It must then be marinaded in a little Madeira or plain sherry for half an lmur or less. It it is then sweetened, it is ready to be piled up again into the skins, and a spoonful of whipped cream placed on the top. A banana mixed with the pulp makes a variety, while a pretty dish is made by replacing the tops, previously decorating them with a sprig of lemon or orange if it can be had. Failing this, any dark greenery can be used.—Mrs A. B. Marshall. 388.—GINGER PUDDING. Quarter of a pound of treacle, ilb. of flour, 3oz. of chopped suet, half a teaspoonful of ground ginger, quarter of a pint of milk, one piece of candied peel cut in strips, half a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and a good pinch of ground clover. Just warm the treacle, and add to dry ingredients; mix well, and steam for two and a half hours. Serve with lemon sauce if liked. 380. MADELEINES; ALSO SWEET ROLLS. Make some very small queen cakes with as little sugar in them as possible. Dip them in some raspberry jelly, and then in crystallised sugar, and serve with whipped cream on top. 390. BERLIN APPLES. Peel five apples, cut them in slices, and lay them in a dish. Grate a very little cinnamon over them. Lay a few cloves on them, a little powdered sugar, and a thin layer of apricot jam. Mix 2oz. of cornflour with one pint of new milk, stir it over the fire till it boils, and pour it over file apples, &c., which must be well covered. Bake for nearly an hour. 391.—RICE SOUFFLE. Four tablespoonfuls of ground rice stirred to a smooth paste with six tablespoonfuls of milk. Add remainder of a pint of milk, and put all into a saucepan, and stir till it thickens. Add the beaten yolks of four eggs and a little sugar well stirred, also add the well whisked whites of four eggs. Mix all thoroughly,