408 Menus for Every Day of the Year. lemon juice, roll up tightly and as neatly as possible, place it in a pan, and cover with some weak stock. Cook it gently tor two hours. It should have been tied in a cloth before cooking. Let it remain in the liquor for one hour after it is removed from the fire, then take it out, remove the cloth, then put it between two dishes with weights on top. When quite cold brush it over with glaze and pipe a design on it with butter. Serve garnished with aspic jelly and small tomatoes, a cold compote of apples being handed separately. FARCE FOR GALANTINE. 2. Take lOoz. of lean fillet of veal. 12oz. of fresh lean and fat pork and bacon, 2oz. of cooked ham or tongue, eighteen pistachio nuts, six or eight blanched almonds, three large truffles, six boned anchovies, and six turned olives. Pass the veal and pork twice through the sausage machine, spread it out on the table or slab, and season it well, and on it place the strips of ham or tongue, pistachio, &c. Arrange all neatly together, roll it up, and place it inside the boned loin. 218.—COLD ROAST PORK FOR COLLATIONS. Choose a nice leg and place it in pickle for two days only. Boil in a large pan, so that the water covers the joint, for two hours. Lift out and set away till quite cold, then bake in a quick oven one hour. Cooked in this way it will keep a month, and always be tempting._ This is the most economical method of cooking pork, as there is no waste. The fat on the top of the liquor in which it has been boiled makes frying or kneading lard if taken off when cold. The liquor makes good pea or lentil soup. 219.—BROILED EGGS AND OYSTERS. Mix loz. of butter with a teaspoonful of anchovy paste. Beat up five eggs, add salt and a good pinch of Marshall’s coralline pepper. Melt the anchovy butter in a saute pan. When hot. pour in the eggs, stir lightly until the mixture begins to thicken, add quickly one dozen oysters, previously bearded. Serve very hot in scallop shells. 220 —BOILED SALT PORK AND BROAD BEANS OR TURNIP TOPS OR CABBAGE. Choose a well-salted piece of side pork, put it into cold water, and let it come to boil, and boil for ten minutes. Lift it out and throw away the boiling water. Put it back into cold water and boil for an hour, and if the bones are loose it is done enough. Then lift out and put it under a. weight to flatten it. Put whatever vegetable you are going to serve into the liquor, and boil till tender. Then place the cooked pork on a hot dish, and keep very hot. Garnish with the vegetables (if beans), and serve with a good white sauce and plenty of steamed potatoes. 221.—PORTLAND ARTICHOKES. Boil some globe artichokes till quite tender, then cut off the top half of the leaves. In the spaces between the leaves drop in a little pepper and cream, and place in the oven for ten uiimites before serving. They can also be done by cutting off the tops nrst. dropping salt and pepper into each half, and standing the artichoke in oil. covering up the saucepan, and letting them cook slowly in the oil.