514 Menus for Every Day •of the Vear. Put in a forcing bag with a rosb pipe, anrl force the paste int/ tlie whites of the eggs in a fancy coil, bringing the tip as high as possible. Cut a round of bread and butter, put a ring of stiffly whipped cream round the edge, and sprinkle mustard am' cross over it lightly. Set the eggs in the centre, and 6erve. 792. —SAVOURY PUFFS. Beat the whites of two eggs to a very stiff froth, and stir in lloz. of grated kippered herring and ioz. of grated Parmesan cheese, a little salt and pepper. Form this mixture into marbles. Drop them into boiling lard, and fry for five minutes. Dram well, and serve very hot. 793. —BEETROOT RINGS. Cut some slices from a small cooked beetroot and cut out the centre, leaving a ring. Fry the rings in a little butter and chopped parsley for five minutes. Mince the beetroot taken from the centre and fry it with some shrimps cut in half Lay the fried ring on a thm croute and fill in the centre with the shrimps and beat. Sprinkle fried parsley over all, and serve very hot. 794. —PRAWN CROUTES. Prepare some small prawns and make them very hot in butler. Put in a pan the slightly beaten yolk of one egg and one table- spoonful of anchovy sauce, and mix them well. Fry some sma.! round croutes in this, and serve with the prawns piled up on them. Dust well with coralline pepper. 795.—MUSHROOM AU GRATIN. 1. Peel lib. of mushrooms and let them marinade for a few minutes in a seasoning of oil, a little lemon juice, made mustard, and black pepper. Then beat up an egg to a froth. Grate a little Gruyere and Parmesan cheese. Dip the mushrooms one by one into the beaten egg. and then roll in the grated cheese. Have ready some melted butter, and fry the mushrooms a nice brown. Serve on fried croutes. MUSHROOM TOAST. o Grill required number of large mushrooms. Chop finely some ham, and place in the centre of the mushroom with a lit.le cayenne pepper over. Serve on a very hot round of toast. 796.—ASPARAGUS TRIFLES. Cook some asparagus and cut off the tips about 1 inch long, and mix with some very thick whipped cream Cut some rounns of brown bread, very thin. Make a paste of the asparagus stalks and spread it on the bread, and pile the asparagus up high on each of them. Add salt and pepper. 797.—SAVOURY BROAD BEANS. Take some broad beans and skin them. Boil them in one pint of milk to cover them, some salt, one tablespoonful chopped parsley, and loz. of butter, until tender. Add the well-beaten yolk of one egg and two tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve in little china cases very hot.