47i Recipes. yolk of two eggs beaten a little, 4oz. of finely chopped suet, one wineglassful oi sherry, four preserved greengages cut in slices, ioz. of ground rice, and the stiffly whipped whites of three eggs. Mix these all very thoroughly together. Butter a mould and ornament with slices of greengage. Put a high paper round it inside, and steam it for two and three-quarter hours. Serve with a wine sauce. 567.—MOUSSES AU CAFE. Make a mousse mixture of a quarter of a pint of v.ery strops coflee, and when quite hot add a ioz. of Marshall’s gelatine. Add it to the crumbs of three or four sponge fingers and a quarter 01 a pint of cold milk; sugar to taste when nearly cold. Keep whip- ping, and when about to set add half a pint of stiffly whipped cream that has been sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. Have ready some little fancy jelly moulds that have been lined with raspberry jelly and a little chopped pistachio. Fill in the moulds with the mousse mixture, and when ready to dish up decorate with roses of white whipped cream. 568.—HOT COFFEE PUDDING. Well butter a charlotte mould and decorate it with cherries and angelica cut in fancy shapes. Make a mixture of the following : Fill up the mould with sponge cake or fingers. Break four eggs in a basin, add one gill of very strong coffee, and as much milk as will make three-quarters of a pint of custard altogether. Pour on to the sponge cake and steam for one and a half hours. Serve with the following sauce : Make a custa.rd with one gill of milk and one egg, add one tablespoonful of orange flower water, and when thickened enough add one gill of warmed cream. Tammy, and pour round the pudding quite hot. 569.—DANISH FRITTERS. Well beat five eggs, add them to a pint of flour with sufficient milk to make it smooth, add a pinch of salt, and beat well. Then add a teaspoon ful of cinnamon powder, one of grated lemon peel, lloz. of candied citron cut into very small pieces. Rub the bottom of a clean stew pan with fresh butter and put in the paste, set it over a gentle fire, and let it be done slowly, without sticking to the pan. When it is in a manner baked, take it out and lay it on a dish. Have ready some boiling lard or fat. Cut the paste into the size of fingers, and then cut it across at each end to make it rise and be hollow. Put them into the boiling fat, and fry care- fully, as they rise very quickly. Drain them, and serve on a napkin with sifted augar over them. 570.—LEMON SOUFFLE. Seven ounces of castor sugar, three lemons, four eggs, and Joz. of Marshall’s gelatine. Beat the yolks and sugar together until the latter has dissolved, then add the juice of the lemons and stiffly beaten whites of eggs, then the gelatine dissolved in a little water. Beat for five minutes, or until setting, then put into a souffle case and decorate the top with whipped cream. 571.—GERMAN PUDDINGS. A I lb. of breadcrumbs, a lib. of suet, one teacupful of rasp- berry jam, two eggs, 2oz. of sugar, and one tablespoonful of milk.