457 Recipes. hour. Then arrange about ten or twelve piece of strawberry in each glass. Pour a little of the syrup over them, and put some- where to get very cold. Serve with whipped cream piled on top. A little sugar may be liked over the strawberries. 488.—PECHES A LA MELBA. Cut six large ripe peaches in half and take out the stones, cook very carefully till tender in a rich syrup flavoured with maraschino, and colour with a little of Marshall’s carmine. When done, drain in a sieve, and skin very carefully. Reduce the syrup and let it get cold. Fill each half a peach with vanilla cream ice, and dress on a border of Genoese pastry, iced portion downwards. Mask the fruit with the reduced syrup (cold), and decorate with glace cherries and angelica. 489.—COFFEE CUSTARDS. Ingredients: A quarter of a pint of coffee, one pint of new milk, four yolks of eggs, sugar to taste. Method: Make a quarter of a pint of very strong coffee, mix with it a pint of new milk (boiling), sweeten to taste. Beat the yolks of four eggs thoroughly, and stir into the milk gradually. Put the ingredients into a double saucepan, and stir until the mixture thickens. Serve in custard glasses, with whipped cream on top if liked. 490.—BANANAS AND CURDS. Two ripe bananas (the smaller ones), some caster sugar, half a pint of milk, one teaspoonful of rennet, and a small jug of rich cream. Warm the milk to blood heat, add the rennet, stir and pour into a pretty small dish with sides to it, and put in a cool place till set. Prepare the fruit by peeling and cutting into slices, dip each in the sugar on both sides, then, just before serving, arrange the slices, overlapping each other, round the edge of the curds and a few in the centre, and serve with the jug of cream and a little basin of sugar 491.—COFFEE PUDDING. Beat up the yolks of three eggs with 2oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. of flour, and four tablespoonfuls of very strong coffee; add loz. of melted gelatine and the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs. Beat all thoroughly, put into a buttered mould, and bake for an hour. Serve hot with coffee sauce. 492.—ICE CREAM OF FRESH STRAWBERRIES. Heat one pint of milk and one pint of cream to boiling point, and stir in lib. of sugar and let cool. Mash Jib. of strawberries with Jib. of sugar, and strain through very coarse muslin; add to it the milk, also the white of one egg beaten stiff. Remove the stalks from lib. of strawberries, and cut them in half. Add them to the mixture, and freeze. Serve in little paper cases. 493.—JELLY A LA DOROTHY. Peel some muscatel grapes, and stone them, and cook gently in a syrup. Prepare some lemon jelly, and line a mould with it. Choose a mould with hollow centre. Fill in with a layer of grapes, then put in some jelly flavoured with maraschino, more grapes, and finish with lemon jelly. Fill the centre with piled whipped cream.