464 Menus for Every Day of the Year. whipped cream. Stir well together, and pour into the ornamented mould. Put it away to get cold and set. When required, turn it out on a dish on a paper or napkin, and serve for a swee' dinner or luncheon, or any cold collation.—Mrs A. B. Marsha! 1. 526.—JELLY A LA MODE. Make a large cupful of very strong coffee, putting in one table- spoonful of sugar and loz. of gelatine which has been soaked in cold water for ten minutes. Melt together over the .fire. Add 1 two tablespoonfuls of maraschino. Line a mould with :emon jelly; pour in the above mixture and 6et it to cool. For lemon jelly, soak loz. of gelatine in a quarter of a pint of cold water, , then add three-quarters of a pint 9f boiling water and let it a-et cold. Add the grated rind and juice of two lemons, 6cz. of .oaf sugar, and the yolks, well beaten, of three eggs. Warm on '.he fire while mixing. Cut two tinned peaches in small pieces and lay them on the firm coffee jelly, and slowly fill the mould with the lemon jelly. Set on ice to cool. Serve with whipped cream. 527.—SHERRY SPONGE. Soak loz. of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for ten minutes, then add one pint of boiling water. Let it get cold, ■ and add Goz. of sugar, the juice of three lemons, half a pint of sherry, and the -whites of two eggs whipped stiff. Whisk it mr quite twenty minutes. Pour it into a mould, and set aside to ' C0°L 528.—EMPEROR PUDDING. Make a thick cream of one teacupful of breadcrumbs and. one pint of milk. Beat the yolks of two eggs and the white oi one egg until stiff, and add them to the cream also half a Lea- spoonful of vanilla essence. Pour all into a buttered mould, and bake for forty-five minutes. Turn out on to a dish, make a Might hollow in the top, and fill this with jam or brandy c.-.ernes. Spread white of egg on top, and brown in the oven for a moment- , 529.—FRUIT LIQUEUR SALADS. Mix together in a teacupful of sherry one dozen black currants, one dozen red, one dozen white, skin three dozen grapes (remove pips), one dozen small gooseberries, one pear cut into 1-inch byl 1-inch strips, one apple ditto, two Peaches or apncote dltto Sciueeze in the juice of an orange, add two tablespoonfuIs oil sugar.2 and let stand two hours Half fill some; h tie 1.1^. adding two brandy cherries to each, then fill to the top witm whipped cream or vanilla ice cream. 530.—CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE Put in a saucepan 3oz. of grated chocolate and one gill oiE milk, and bring almost to the boil, stirring in a little sugar Beat for chocolate Id^ov^Ve^e ?or half0a*nnnute.. Melt |oz of ? “,/j msttm “f. n*M SRWf^hSt sar .vs1,' «*• and ornament the top with whipped cream and pistachio nut-.