FISH 641.—OYSTERS A LA GRACE. Take as many oysters as required, beard them, and stew the beards in a little new milk, strain into the oysters, add loz. ot butter, red pepper, a little salt, and just bring to the boil. Have the yolks of two eggs beaten up in two tablespoontuls ot cream, add to the prepared oysters, and let it thicken in the bain mane or chafing dish. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve immediately. 642 -STUFFED SOLE Clean and prepare tlie fillets of sole. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Make a paste of breadcrumbs, chopped herbs, and parsley and butter. Cut the fillets in half. Into each piece roll a little stuffing. They can be dipped m egg and bread- crumbs and fried, or put into boiling dripping and baked tor twenty minutes, and served with knchovy sauce. Use four table- spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, one of chopped parsley, and halt ot chopped herbs for the paste. 643.—COLD SOLE, SAUCE VERTE. Fillet the sole, sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll up (not too tight), and tie with cotton. Cook in a buttered pan tor fifteen minutes, or until tender. Set to cool. When required, untie them and arrange in two rows down the centre ot a dish, garnish- ing with a green sauce. Mix a tablespoonful of pounded parsley with half a gill of melted butter, half a gill of cream and half a gill of mayonnaise, salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. If too thick, add a little milk. Put through a sieve and pour over the fish to cool. The sauce should be quite smooth. 644.—SHRIMP FRITTERS. Pick and clean some shrimps, and pound them to a paste with a few breadcrumbs and some drops of anchovy essence. Make this into little cakes, dip them in a batter, and fry them in boiling fat. Drain them, and serve with thin rolls of brown bread and butter. 645.—ENFIELD PUFFS. Prepare some thin pastry, and cut it into thin squares. Place in the centre of each square three or four shrimps and some chopped mushroom. Fold oyer and pinch the ends together. Dip in white of egg and fry in hot fat. Serve hot with a little coralline pepper on top. 646.—LOBSTER SOUFFLE. Cook a small lobster, and then remove the meat and pound it in a mortar. Melt 2oz. of flour and loz. of butter together, and mix well; stir in half a pint of milk over the fire till it thickens, add the lobster and the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a little