Recipes. 477 all these together and pour into a mould, set it away in a cool place until set, then dip in tepid water and turn out. Add one teaspoonful of caster sugar to the teacupful of juice. Pour this round the mould, and serve. 598.—PIPPINS AND CREAM. Dried pippins require steeping for twelve hours, and then are stewed until tender, if possible in a syrup of sugar and water. When cold, put cranberry in the core of each, place in a dish in the form of a cross, and put stiff whipped cream flavoured with vanilla at each comer, and serve. 599.—GOLDEN PUDDING. Remains of a sponge cake broken ux> in dice, 2oz. of chopped sweet almonds, £oz. of ground bitter almonds, loz. of orange xxeei cut very fine, one breakfastcupful of raisins stoned, 2oz. of sugar, and two eggs well whipped. Make a custard with the eggs, sugar, and some new milk. Mix well with the other ingredients, and pour into a well-buttered mould, with cherries cut in half, and steam for nearly an hour. Serve with a fruit sauce. GOO.—SWEET IMITATION MUSHROOMS. Two whites of eggs beaten very stiffly, add 4oz. of caster sugar for the meringue mixture. Put on white x>aper on meringue board, with a teaspoon, rather flat, dust with grated chocolate, and dry them, then scoop out inside and run chocolate icing inside them (2oz. of grated chocolate, 2oz. of icing sugar, and a little water to melt chocolate), then stalks of 2oz. of ground almonds and 2oz. of caster sugar, little almond essence moistened with the whites of eggs beaten, and roll up into shape of stalks, put on sugared paper, and dry them in a cool oven. Put these into the chocolate before quite set. 601.—CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Boil a large cupful of new milk with lib. of chocolate Menier broken up. adding two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Stir into this 4oz. of breadcrumbs and 2oz. of ground sweet almonds. Add the yolks of two eggs beaten a short time and four drops of vanilla flavouring, also the whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Steam in a well-buttered mould for one and a half hours, and serve with custard sauce. 602—CURACOA PRUNES. Stew lib. of prunes until tender. Remove the stones and drain from syrup. Lay them in a dish and half, cover with curacoa; leave them for two hours, stirring several times, so that they all get saturated. Replace them and the liqueur in the syrup, add the juice of half a lemon, and simmer for fifteen minutes. Servo warm witli custards. 603. COFFEE CUSTARD SAUCE. Boil a gill of coffee and a gill of milk together. Put four eggs and 2oz. of sugar in a basin, and beat with a wooden spoon; add a little cream, then i>our on the boiling coffee and milk. Return all to the saucepan, but do not let it boil. Add a few drops of Marshall’s vanilla essence. Whun thick, strain and use.