45 1 Recipes. Just before the gauffres are required, mince Jib. of candied pine- apple finely. Butter a frying pan, pour in sufficient of the mix- ture to cover the bottom, toss when brown, and brown on the other side. When ready, sprinkle with the chopped pineapple, keep it hot, and continue to make gauffres until all the batter and pineapple are used. As each gaulire is done build it on the one below, with a layer of pineapple between and place in the oven. When all are finished, cut down in four quarters, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve as hot as possible. 458.—CHOCOLATE ICE MERINGUES. Make some meringues and fill them with chocolate ice cream. Dissolve 2oz. of best vanilla flavoured chocolate in a little milk and add to it one pint of made custard, which should be hot. Mix all well, and set aside to cool. Freeze in the usual way and use. 459.—RHUBARB JELLY. Stew about lib. of rhubarb till tender, with enough sugar to sweeten, and a little lemon peel. Pass it through a sieve, and add loz. of Marshall's leaf gelatine, a wineglassful of Marshall’s Silver Rays rum, coloured with a few drops of canning, and pour into a mould. Set on ice or in a cool place till wanted, ornament with whipped cream, coloured pink with Marshall’s carmine, and garnish with dried cherries, coloured green and red with Marshall’s carmine and sap green. Pears and apples can be treated in the same way. 460.—OPEN CHERRY TART. Make an open tart of good short pastry in a round tin with upright sides about 1 inch high. Put Jib. of red currant or apple jelly in a small stewpan and one gill of cold water. Melt the jelly and put in ljlb. of good cherries, put a lid on, and let the cherries simmer till tender. Then add one wineglassful of curacoa and stir. Put all into the open tast, and serve hot or cold with thick cream. Apples can be served in like manner. 461. —FIG COMPOTE. Add lib. of loaf sugar to one and a half pints of water and boil until a syrup, and strain it through muslin. Put it into a saucepan with half a stick of vanilla and eighteen small green figs, and stew them till tender. Add two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, remove the vanilla, and serve in a glass dish with whipped cream. 462. —SWISS CAKE. Take a large sponge cake, scoop out the centre of it, fill with a puree of apples or crushed strawberries. Cover over with whipped cream, and serve ornamented with pistachio nuts. 463.—MARMALADE BALLS. Dissolve Joz. of yeast in some luke-warm water, and mix with it ,1b. of flour, adding enough milk to make a stiff dough. Put it in a basin and lea,ve it to rise. Mix together the grated rind of one lemon five lumps of sugar crushed, and 2oz. of fresh butter beaten to a cream, four well-beaten eggs, and the dough. Knead thoroughly. Make the mixture into balls, and make a cut in each, b j 11 with marmalade, close up, and put in a warm G G 2