Recipes. 501 into fine shreds, -loz. of shredded spinach, the same of chervil. Fry for ten minutes, then add loz. of flour and three-quarters of a pint good white stock, and cook for fifteen minutes. Then add the raw yolks of two eggs and a quarter of a pint of cream. Stir over the fire till very hot. and then pour it over the chicken through a strainer. 711.—SPINACH AU JUS. Boil till tender the required amount of spinach, drain it well, and chop it fine. Lay it in a stewpan on a little butter, and dredge in a tablespoonful of flour (if for five persons) while stirring over a gentle fire. Add enough good thick gravy to just cover the spinach, and boil all quickly for ten minutes. Serve very hot with sippets of bread, being careful that the spinach is not too thin. 712—CAULIFLOWER FRITTERS. After having nicely boiled the cauliflower, divide it into branches, and when quite cold mask them with thick Bechamel sauce. Let them stand on a sieve for a few moments. Dip into egg and breadcrumbs and fry a light brown. Serve with good brown sauce. 713.—VIENNA STEAKS. Remove all skin and gristle from £lb. of tender steak, chop it up, and then mince it finely, when you add to it a small, finely minced shallot, a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and moisten it all over with one well-beaten egg Spread the mixture out on a plate and leave it for about an hour, then divide it into eight even-sized pieces. Form each into a flat, round cake, dusting them with flour to prevent them sticking to the pastry board, flatten them on top with a knife. Sautez them for ten minutes in butter, then just place them for a minute in the oven to crisp them, then serve with a rich demi-glace sauce diluted with sour cream, and place a small piece of horseradish cream on each. The demi-glace sauce is simple mode l>v boiling together rapidly half a pint each of espagnole and good plain stock and loz. of glaze for five minutes, and diluting it with the sour cream. For the horseradish cream : Wash thoroughly, scrape, and grate a small stick of horseradish, then stir it quickly with a. gill of stiffly whipped cream, and flavouring it with coralline pepper and lemon juice, a. teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, and use. 711. CIIAUDFROJD OF QUAILS. Take some boned quails with the feet left on, farce them by means of a forcing bag and pipe with liver farce. Make a well in the centre of the farce in each bird, and in it place a slice of cold braised sweetbread that has been rolled in finely chopped truffle, and cut about 2$ inches long by 1 inch square. Press this well in the farce, and close up the birds well to prevent the mixture working out. Make the birds up into good shapes, and with a band of buttered paper fasten up each bird and tie with string. Place a little slice of si it ted fat bacon on the breast of each, and put them on a butter saute pan. and cook in a mode- rate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes. Then put away to cool, and when cool by means of a hot. wet knife cut the birds in halves and mask over till well coated with brown chaudfroid sauce, glaze