Menus for Every Day of the Year. 470 561.—MOSS PUDDING. Blanch ilb. of pistachio nuts, and pound them to a paste with one teaspooniul of brandy. Add one pint of cream and one tea- spoonful of caster sugar, and stir over the fire. Melt loz. ol ge.a- tine in half a pint of milk, and add, also the yolks 01 two vieJ- beaten eggs. Stir all thoroughly until mixed. Prepare a mould, and sprinkle chopped pistachio nut in the bottom. Pour m the mixture and let it set; when quite cold, turn out and place in the centre of a dish. Put a ring of whipped cream round, and scatter the cream thickly with chopped pistachio. 562.—CHARTREUSE OF PEACHES. Put four whole eggs into a stewpan with the finely chopped peel of a lemon and 4oz. of caster sugar. Whip together over boiling water till just warm. Then take off and whip till raid, ana lire thick cream, and mix into it by degrees 3oz. of fine flour tnat ha- been passed through a sieve and just warmed in the screen. Putter some peach tins with warm butter, and dust them over with caster sugar and fine flour, mixed together in equal quantum^ Put the mixture prepared as above into the moulds to about ha . their depth, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minute; After this leave the cakes in the moulds for a few minutes belore turning out. When turned out lightly brush over with a little carmine powder, and then dust them over with very fine caster sugar, completely coating them. Pour some custard into tne dish the peaches are to be served on, lightly sprinkle the peaches on the under side with a little sherry or brandy, and dish them on the oustard. Then fill up the centre with snow cream in a pile, sprinkle the cream here and there with coloured sugar or chopped pistachio nuts, and serve.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 563.—FIG ROLY-POLY. Shred finely with a knife 7oz. of suet and mix with lib. of flour. Add a little cold water, a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Roll this out twice. Chop J-lb of fresh figs very finely and spread on the paste. Roll it up and tie m a buttered cloth, making certain that the figs are not able to fall out by pinching the ends, and boil it for two hours. 564.—CORNFLOUR PUDDING. One pint of milk (made very hot), three tablespoonfuls of corn- flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two eggs, well whisked Make a batter of the eggs and cornflour and twelve drops ql ratafia essence, and gradually mix into the hot. milk till it is thick. Strew some sugar over the bottom of a dish. Pour the hot mixture over it, and set to cool. Ornament the top with cherries, &c. 565. —APPLES AND MACAROONS. Stew six apples till tender, and put them in a pudding, disli. not touching each other. Fill in the spaces with breadcrumbs. Orate six macaroons over all, and bake in the oven for twenty minutes. 566. —PUDDING A L'ALEXANDRA. Cream 4oz. of butter with the finely chopped peel of one lemon and add 3oz. of caster sugar, and mix well.. Mix in loz ol flour. 3oz. of macaroon crumbs, 3oz. of sponge biscuits (crumbed . the