468 Menus for Every Day of the Year. one pint of cream, add to it the apple £eU, add half a glass of sherry. Pour into a mould and let cool, berve it with whipped cream. 550.—SUET PUDDING. nmirirl nf anet lib of breadcrumbs, lib. of raisins [stoned), lib of brown sugar/one tablespoonful of flour, a little milk just enough to make ft moist), and a teaspoonful of salt. Boil for eight h0UrS' 551.—POTATO CHEESE CAKES. Mash up two large boiled potatoes, add 3oz. of melteu butter, three e°-gs the rind of a tangerine orange (or a lemony 4oz . sugar, a sherryglassful of brandy. Mix all well, and bake in little pastry lined tins. 552.—V1ENNOISE PUDDING. Mix together 5oz. of breadcrumbs, 2oz. of caster sugar, 2oz. ol raises loz. of candied peel, and three well-beaten eggs. A good cook will know how to proceed. 553.—APRICOT PUDDING. Pour half a pint of boiling cream over 3oz. of breadcrumbs. When cold add the yolks of two eggs, half a glass o. sherry, and su^ar to taste. Mix with above puree of ten apricots, white of one egi, well beaten, to be stirred in last. Bake m buttered dish. 554 —CHERRY PUDDING. £F tta Ss^sr«s*|s iuice just give it a boil up, and pour round the pudding Serve at once. Sprinkle the pudding with chopped angelica and desic- cated cocoanut. 555.—FRIAR’S OMELET OF PEARS. Prepare some pear pulp and breadcrumbs. Mix together wiiij some liquid apple jelly and sugar, and some drops of ruin. tiU the required size of piedish, cover with a layer of breadcrumbs, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. The top should be a crisp brown. 556 —SOUFFLE OMELET, BRANDY CHERRY SAUCE^ Beat up the yolks of five eggs with a dessertspoonful of mi k. Remove the stones from six brandy cherries, chop the fruit finely. Add to flu- yolks with a dessertspoonful of caster sugar ami same quantity of cherry brandy. Beat up once more to a froth. Then whisk the five whites until perfectly stiff, and fold lightly into ihe mixture. Melt a little butter in n frying pan, pour in the mixture, and cooil evenly over a moderate fire for two minutes, loosening Ihe edges all round ns they set. Then place in a quick oven tor two or three minutes longer. In the meantime take two tablc- spoonfuls of red currant jelly, melt in a small saucepan, add a tablespoonful of cherry brandy and six dozen brandy cherries.