Recipes. 483 out of tlie pot about half an hour before, cut the breast off and cut it into narrow strips. Scoop the broth slowly and carefully out of the pot, and strain through a very clean cloth which is not starched into another pot, and let it simmer again until reduced to quantity required. In the meantime scrape a medium-sized raw beetroot and squeeze the juice out of it. At dinner time pour the broth into a soup tureen, add the beetroot juice and the strips ot the duck’s breast, and serve. Some very fresh double cream to be handed round separately. 634.—CUCUMBER PUREE. Take one large cucumber, peel and cut up small; add two fresh lettuces, well washed and coarsely shredded. Put all into a stew- pan with enough water to cover, a tiny bit ot soda, and a sufficient allowance of salt. Let it just come to the boil, then strain and press free from all moisture. Again return to the stewpan, with 3oz. of butter, and cook slowly for some twenty minutes, then add two pints of clear white stock and cook again for thirty minutes. Now pass all through a fine hair sieve, and put into a pan in the bain marie to make hot. Then to a pint of warm cream add the yolks of four beaten eggs; put this to the soup, and stir all together until it thickens, then serve with slices of cucumber which have been cooked in water until tender and afterwards made firm by being laid under cold water, drained dry, and fried in fresh butter. 635.—WHITE SOUBISE SOUP. Take two small Spanish onions, peel, and cut them into rounds; let them cook in a saucepan (with the lid on) with lloz. of butter for about half an hour, or until they are soft, without being coloured at all. When ready, pour over them a pint of white stock, adding some pieces of bacon rind and breadcrumbs. Simmer gently for one hour, then pass the soup through a fin.® sieve, and press as much of the onion through it as possible. Boil up again, put into it a pint of boiling milk, or if possible boiling cream, and serve very hot. 636.—BEETROOT SOUP. Make a good stock of shin of beef and knuckle of veal (21b. of each), one large onion, two carrots, two turnips (white), mixed herbs, and seasoning to taste. Boil for many hours, strain, let it stand until cold, then the fat is to be removed. After a lapse of twenty-four hours add .the beetroot, which has been previously boiled until tender and rubbed through a sieve. Add some cream. To increase the pink colour add more beetroot or add Marshall s carmine. 637.—WHITE SOUP. One ounce of butter, loz. of flour, one pint of white stock, half a gill of cream, one yolk of egg, seasoning, half a gill of cooked carrot and turnip (cut into pea shapes), and a few green peas. Melt the butter, add the flour, and fry slightly. Add the stock gradually, stir till boiling, and cook for a few minutes. Beat up the yolks with the cream, add these to the soup, also the vege- tables, and season it nicely. Pour into a hot tureen, and garnish also, if liked, with a little chopped parsley. I I 2