461 Recipes. 514.—RASPBERRY BAVAROISE Beat 41b. of butter to a cream with 41b. of caster sugar, and then add a gill of milk mixed with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, and gradually 9oz. of sifted flour, two heaped-up tea- spoonfuls of baking power, and a pinch of salt. Whip the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and fold them lightly into the mixture. Butter some small moulds, fill them half full with the mixture, and steam a little' over half an hour. Then shake them out of the moulds, roll them in a little caster sugar— previously coloured with cochineal—and serve, when cold, with a few whole raspberries in the centre and raspberry fool all round, piling some whipped-up cream over the whole. 515.—PUMPKIN PUDDINGS. Take a slice of pumpkin and cut it in pieces, removing the ccarse rind. Stew slowly in sufficient water to cover, then press the pulp through a colander. To half a pint of pulp put a gill of milk on to heat, and melt in it 2oz. of butter and the same quantity of sugar, using cream in preference to milk if a richer pudding is required. Then beat up four eggs to a froth, and add them to the mixture with half a wineglassful of rosewater and one wineglassful of white wine, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and a little grated lemon rind. Pour into a buttered pudding dish, and bake for about half an hour to forty minutes 516.—BAVAROISE A LA MARIE. Put into a stewpan one pint of new milk, a piece of cinnamon about 1 inch long, a strip of lemon peel, two bayleaves, 3oz. of caster sugar. Bring this to the boil, then add to it four sheets of Marshall’s gelatine, and mix into it 3oz. of Brown and Poison's cornflour that has been mixed till smooth with a quarter of a pint of cold milk. Stir till reboiling, then pour it on to three raw yolks of eggs that have been mixed together till quite smooth. Place the pan again on the stove, and stir the mixture till it thickens, but do not let it boil. Wring it through a clean tammy, and stir it occasionally till cooling, then add a quarter of a pint of stiffly whipped cream. Line a fancy jelly mould with lemon jelly, garnish it with pistachio nuts and dried cherries, or coloured jelly, prepared as below, may be used if more con- venient. Set the garnish to the mould with more jelly, and when it is set pour the prepared mixture into the shape and put it aside on ice or in a cool place till firm, then dip it into warm water, pass a clean cloth over the bottom to absorb any moisture, and turn out the bavaroiso on to an entree dish on a dish paper. Serve for dinner, luncheon, or ball supper dish. Cherries for Garnish.—Cut some dried cherries into little pieces, and mix them in a little strong lemon jelly coloured with carmine. Stir till set, then use. Pistachio for Garnish.—Blanch the pistachio nuts by putting them into cold water. Bring this to the boil, then strain and rinse in cold water. Rub the nuts in a cloth to remove the skins, and cut them up into shreds, then put them into a little lemon jelly. Add a few drops of sap green. Stir till set, then use. Coloured Jelly.—Take half a pint of strong lemon jelly, flavour with vanilla essence or any kind of liqueur, colour with