436 Menus for Every Day of the Year. dish paper or napkin on the dish on which it is to be served. The sDecial Belgrave mould can be had in tin or copper. Oreanf for Belgrave Jelly.-Allow for each BP** one lao.e- sooonful of whipped cream and two tablespoonfuls of lemon .ell/. Mix these together, when just getting thick, lure whipped add to each a few drops of essence (either coffee, vanilla, pine- apple or banana), keeping each flavour separate Each ol the difterent flavours can be coloured differently if liked.—Mrs. A. U. Marshall. 370.—ORANGE DARIOLES. Three eggs well beaten, half a pint of cream, Hoz. of flour, loz_ nf butter^Tcreamed) 1 Quarter of a pint of milk (about), loz, of caster sugLr! a few drops of orange water Line some danole moulds with paste. Mix all above ingredients to a batter, drop- ping in the essence of lemon to taste slowly. Fill the motdd=, and bak! about thirty-five minutes. Serve with a lemon sauce. 371 „,A.—GINGER CREAM. Three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, 2oz. of one table- sDoonful of syrup of ginger, one and a half gills of mill., i2oz. ot preserved ginger, half a teaspoonful of essence of ginger, hall a pmt oi double cream. Soak and dissolve the gelatine in the mat then add the sugar. Dissolve, strain, and allow it to cool. « hip the cream, and add to it the ginger cut in small pieces, and the essence of ginger and the syrup, and lastly the gelatine. Allow the whofe to bf nearly set before moulding, else the ginger will sink to the bottom. 372.—CHERRY TRIFLE. 1 Scoop out the centre of an ordinary sponge cake and nil in vath whipped cream, to which has been added some stoned ^d cookea cherries Put on the lid of the cake, and glaze it over with water glaze, and into a forcing hag with a rose p 1 p e p u t ha. ha pi n to f stiffly whipped sweetened cream. Force a pretty design a.. the cake, taking care to have plenty of roses; put a cherry on the top of each rose. Dish on a fancy paper, and serve for a party. CHERRY TRIFLE. 2 Stew some cherries in a syrup made of sugar and water. Pjacc some slices of cake about an inch thick in th? °.f, dish, spread a layer of the cherries on top. Add some sherry to the syrup, and pour a little over the contents of the dish, place another layer of cake (cut thinner) on top, then some more cherne. and syrup, and ornament the top with whipped cream ana very small macaroons, and serve. 373.—RASPBERRY CREAM. Ice some raspberries or strawberries. Have some very stiff Devonshire cream made up into balls, and la' on ice 1 lace the fruit in small fancy cases, and pour a few drops of liqueur over Put two or three cream balls on each little case, and serve as cold as possible, with a very thin grating of cheese over all 374.—OLD STREET PUDDING. Mix lib. of butter, Jib. of sugar, and Jib. of flour, half a Pin* f cream together, and bake in a. mould for forty minutes^ Turn out. Melt some jam, and pour it very hot over the pudding, ana serve.