527 Recipes. SALAD DRESSING One teasjioonful of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of salad oil. a pinch of Marshall's coralline pepper, half a teaspoonful ol salt Mix together gradually with half a mustardspoonful ot iresh French mustard, and use in a dish which has been previously rubbed with a raw onion. SAVOURY PEAR SALAD. Drain three preserved pears of the syrup in which they have been bottled. Blanch and mince a tablespoonful each ot walnuts and pecan nuts. Roll the halves of the pears m the nuts, and sprinkle with lemon juice. Make a good mayonnaise sauce, and prepare watercress for salad. Chop up a little of the inner stalk of celery and some beetroot. Mix all together with the mayon- naise, and serve in portions on single lettuce leaves. Lay a nut encrusted pear on each. CHESTNUT SAUCE FOR VEAL. PORK, AND FILLETS OF BEEF. Shell and peel twelve chestnuts. Simmer them in a quarter of a pint of milk till soft; drain them, and rub through a sieve. Place in a small saucepan with a marble of butter, two spoonfuls of cream, a little salt and pepper. Chestnut soup is made in the same way—only use white stock in place of milk. PICKLED PLUMS. Wash thoroughly and dry some hard plums. Prick each several times with a clean skewer. Pack them into wide necked bottles, spice some good wine vinegar, make boiling hot, and pour over the plums and let stand till next day. Repeat the boiling ol the vinegar and pouring it over the plums three times. Then cork and set aside fqr winter use. DAMSON CATSUP. To every half a gallon of fruit one pint of water should be allowed, the pan being stirred constantly so as to prevent, the fruit from boiling, and when soft the pulp rubbed through a sieve. To two quarts of damsons, weighed before the stones have been removed. Jib. of sugar, a quarter of a teaspoonful each ot powdered cloves, allspice, ground pepper, cinnamon, and ginger should be allowed, these spices being stirred into the fruit P P and the latter returned to the pan and the fire, lhe catsup should then be simmered until it is thick. A little grated lemon rind is an improvement. The catsup must be bottled when hot.