383 Recipes. turmeric, and salt, the juice of Half a lemon, a bunch of herbs, one teaspoonful of curry powder, and cook this in one pint of milk or stock for half an hour. Pass through a sieve, and serve very hot over the cauliflower. 9Ga. JUGGED STEAK. Cut 11b. of beef steak into flat, square pieces, and roll these round a thin pin, and pile them in a stone jar one above the other, add four small whole onions, four cloves, one and a half glasses of port wine, pepper and salt. Cover the jar close and stand it in boiling water, letting the steak stew slowly in its own juice until tender. 97—SPAGHETTI AND HADDOCK. Shred finely some cooked dried haddock, butter a small flat baking dish, and grate a little cheese over it, lay the haddock in the dish, cover it with grated cheese and a little pepper. To every tcaeupful of haddock add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and bake in an oven for fifteen minutes. 98—SAVOURY OYSTERS. Clean and blanch twelve oysters, chop them up into small pieces, also chop five small mushrooms. Mix together with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice, and the white of one egg. Make into small flat rounds. Dip in yolk of egg and bread- crumbs, and serve on a hot croute. 99— FISH SOUFFLE. Three ounces of fish, well pounded, three eggs, half a pint of milk, the juice of an onion, pepper and salt to taste. Beat the eggs well, mix well with the fish and milk, pour into a buttered mould, and steam for three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Chicken or any white meat is very good served like this. 99a.- SPICED CHICKEN. Prepare a chicken as for roasting, and stuff it with a plain forcemeat. Place it in a saucepan with half a pint of water, and season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and any spice liked. Add lib. of tomatoes cut into slices, lib. of mushrooms, and a wine- glassful of vinegar. Cover closely, and simmer gently for about one and a quarter hours. Serve it hot with some little forcemeat balls. 100.—SAVOURY EGGS. Take four eggs, which have been boiled twenty minutes. Cut them lengthways in four parts, remove the yolks, and mix with a tablespoonful of Marshall’s Luxette, and two chopped mush- rooms, and a little thick cream. Replace this paste in the whites to resemble the yolk, and place them in a dish of mustard and cress, and serve cold; or arrange in rows on a dish, ornnmont with parsley, and serve very hot. 101.—CHICKEN FILLETS IN ASPIC. ^ mouJ^r with aspic cream, carefully arrange some nicely cut fillets cut from cold chicken round the mould and at the bottom, interspersing with slices of yellow tomato if possible. Pour more aspic over and let it all set; fill the remainder of the mould