5i3 Recipes. and a teaspoonful of cream. Serve on a round of very hot buttered toast, and cover the top with a pattern of the chopped whites of the eggs. Warm all in the oven, and serve hot. 785.—ASPARAGUS MAYONNAISE. Cut up some cooked asparagus into small pieces about 1 inch long and add salt and pepper and a very little grated ham. Mix into a thick mayonnaise sauce, and pile on rounds of brown bread and butter. 786.-SAVOURY SALSIFY. Cut lib of washed and peeled salsify into short lengths, squeeze the juice of one lemon over them, and just cover with water in a dish, add plenty of salt, and leave them for one hour. Strain them and drop into boiling water and salt. Boil them for two hours, strain thoroughly, and rub through a sieve. Add four tablespoonfuls of pounded breast of chicken, the well-whipped yolk of one egg, two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, and a quarter ot a pint of liquid aspic jelly. Mix all thoroughly together, pour into little moulds, and let set. Turn out, and serve with salad. 787.—SAVOURY RAMEKINS. Melt loz. of butter, add half a pint of new milk, and cook for some minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs and add, also 3oz. of finely grated meat of guinea fowl or any game, add the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs. Mix in lightly and put into rama- kin cases. Bake for fifteen minutes. 788.—SAVOURY PEAS. Put a quart of green peas into enough warm water to cover them, and let them stand for fifteen minutes. Strain off the water and put the peas in a jar with salt, butter, and a little sugar. Stand the jar in a saucepan of water, and keep the water boil- ing till the peas are cooked. Young peas take thirty minutes, old ones one and a half hours. Soda takes the flavour out of peas. Serve them in the jar, adding a few small pieces of butter and a little pepper. Put a napkin round the jar. 789.—SAVOURY CIGARS. The remains of any meat and a little ham pounded in a mortar. Make into a paste with a few drops of Worcester sauce Roll into lengths the shape of a cigar. Egg and breadcrumb, and fry a good brown. Serve hot with tomato sauce. 790.—TONGUE SAVOURY. Have two tablespoonfuls of mashed beet, saving any juice. Put all this into a small saucepan with one and a half tablespoonfuls of minced tongue, salt, pepper, and two large raisins chopped very finely. Moisten with stock, and cook for ten minutes. Prepare some fried cToutes. Pile the mixture on them, and serve very hot. 791. EGG TRIFLES. Take four eggs wltfch have been boiled fifteen minutes. Cut them in half and remove the yolks. Pound the yolks in a mortar with one sardine, salt, pepper, and form a paste with cream. I. L