409 Recipes. 222.—CURRIED FOWL Bone a fowl and cut into neat pieces Roll them in a. little curry powder and fry them with a sliced onion for five minutes in a very little hot fat. Add one bayleaf, some chopped celery, a little thyme, one dessertspoonful of ground almonds, the same of desiccated cocoanut, and the peel of half a lemon, and one pint of stock made from the bones. Stir all till it boils, and then let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Mix one tablespoonful of flour with a little cold stock and add it together with a tablespoon - ful of curry paste, and the juice of half a lemon. Bring to the boil and boil fifteen minutes. Take out the chicken and pass the sauce through a fine sieve. Then replace it in a saucepan, add pepper and salt, and to half a pint of gravy add one gill of boiling cream. Return the meat to the saucepan to get thoroughly hot, and serve in a border of plain boiled rice. 223.—OLIVE CUSTARDS. Take loz. of Parmesan cheese to one egg, well beaten up, and mix this over the fire till it becomes a very thick custard. Fry some neat little rounds of bread, spread them thinly with anchovy paste, and pour on each a small quantity of the custard. Stone some olives, and put one in the middle of each. 224.—BAKED CUCUMBER. Peel a cucumber and cook it till tender. Cut it into a length of about 6 inches and scoop out the centre. Take the remains of braised oxtail, or any savoury meat, and mince it. To 4oz. of meat add one tomato, four mushrooms, and a little good gravy to hind. Force this mixture into the cucumber, and bake it in the oven for fifteen minutes, or until quite hot. Sei with baked tomatoes. 225.—CAULIFLOWER A LA GARNET. Break a cooked cauliflower into nice pieces and put these into a buttered French dish. Cover with nicely boiled rice and a layer of hard-boiled eggs cut into thin slices. Pour over the following sauce, and let it lie for an hour, then cover with seasoned brown breadcrumbs and make hot in the oven. Sauce—Cut up one apple, one large Spanish anion, two shallots, and a slice of parsnip into small pieces, and fry quickly in butter for ten minutes. Add a saltspoonful of grated lemon peel, half a teaspoonful of Marshall’s curry powder, and a pinch of salt. Put a cover on the saucepan, and draw aside to cook slowly. When soft rub through a fine sieve and add half a teaspoonful of cream. Mix well and pour over. 226.—CODFISH. PARSNIP SAUCE. Cut the fish into small pieces, sprinkle with salt, and let it stand for two hours. Take one or two cleansed parsnips and cut them into nice julienne-shaped strips, put them into a stewpan, and cook them for a few minutes, then add the fish, cover with water, and add one or two fried onions. Mix in a basin a tablespoonful of flour, some ginger, allspice, nutmeg, cloves, a little treacle, and some vinegar (sufficient to brown it). Pour this into the pan with the fish and parsnips, and cook gently together; but do not allow the sauce to get too thick, as it should be poured over the fish when served.