412 Menas for Every Day of the Year and sprinkle over with a little finely chopped pander Put each on a round of buttered toast, and serve very hot on a fancy dish paper. 239. —POTATO SOUFFLE WITH PARMESAN. Wash and bake three large potatoes in their skins; when cooked. cut in halves and take out the insides and pass them through a sieve. Add two raw yolks of eggs, four whites, whipped, two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, ltoz. of warm butter, a little coralline pepper, and a pinch of salt, and mix all together. Fill the half skins with this, using a forcing bag with a large, plain pipe, then sprinkle over the top a few browned bread- crumbs and a little grated Parmesan cheese, also a few pieces of butter. Bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, and serve on a dish paper.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 240. —CURRIED HADDOCK IN CASSEROLE. Take a cooked fresh haddock and break it up into pieces suffi- cient for one person. Make a curry sauce by putting into a pan two sliced onions, 2oz. of butter, a little ginger, one bayleaf. a little thyme and parsley, and fry these for ten minutes. Then add two teaspoonfuls of curry powder, three of grated cocoanut. two of flour, the sliced rind of quarter of a lemon, and one and a quarter pints of milk, and simmer all together very slowly for over an hour on the side of the fire. Then rub all through a fine sieve and put into a casserole, add the fish, and put on the lid and warm over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes. Serve in the casserole very hot. 241. —ARTICHOKES AND TOMATO SAUCE. Well cleanse and peel some freshly gathered Jerusalem arti- chokes, form them into olive shapes, and put into a stewpan with some milk and water that is seasoned with a little salt. Let. them simmer for about one hour, when they should be tender and a nice colour; then take up, strain them, and put them in a good Soubise sauce. Turn them out on to the dish on which they are to be served, and pour round them some tomato butter, sprinkle over them a little finely chopped parsley, and use for a second course or luncheon dish.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 242.—CURRIED CROQUETTES AND SAVOURY RICE. Half a pound of cooked meat (for choice chicken, rabbit, or mutton), loz. of butter, $oz. of Marshall’s Creme de Riz, a little chopped onion, one teaspoonful of chutney, half a teaspoonful of curry paste, three-quarters of a gill of stock or tomato puree, salt to season, one egg, breadcrumbs, 3oz. of Patna rice, three- quarters of a gill of thick tomato sauce. Pass the meat through a mincer, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the curry and onion fry slightly, and stir in the rice, flour, and stock; boil till very thick, season with salt and chutney, and add the meat. Turn on to a plate to cool; when cold, form into cork-shaped croquettes, egg. breadcrumb, and fry. Boil the rice, and after drying it Ucs in tomato sauce; pile this in the centre of a dish and arrange the croquettes round. If liked, curry sauce or tomato sauce may be served separately.