Recipes. 379 75a. curried rissoles with vegetables. Ingredients : Gurry sauce, minced chicken, rice, egg, broad crumbs, vegetables. Method : Make a little curry sauce and add -t > it the minced chicken and a little boiled rice. Set. aside to cool, rrhen shape into pear shapes, dip each into a well-beaten egg and then into freshly made breadcrumbs, and serve with a macedoine >of vegetables. 75b—PIGEON L’ESPAGNE. Stew four pigeons until done. Then arrange them in the centre jof a dish, and pile the following savoury rice round them : Warm nn a saucepan one gill of olive oil, throw into it 51b. of rice. Jib. of liver cut into tiny squares, three fresh tomatoes, half a pint of -tomato sauce, one chopped onion, one tablespoonful of chopped sparsley, and pepper and salt. Stew these gently for quite ten rminutes, stirring once or twice. Then pour in one pint of stock, sclose the saucepan, and simmer till the rice has absorbed the liquor. Strain off the oil through a warm strainer, and use. A little lemon juice may be added. 76.- -CAULIFLOWERS RICHELIEU. Boil one large or two medium cauliflowers, taking care to keep (them firm. In the meantime fry one tablespoonful of flour in ;clarified butter and three-parts of a teacup of very good chicken 0ot veal stock. Let it come to the boil, then add a teacup of thick tcream and seasoning. Let it come to the boiling point again, but klo not let it continue boiling; add one tablespoonful of Parmesan kcheese. Cut all the leaves and stalks away from the cauliflower, IPUt it into an entree dish in pyramid form, and spread the sauce ’over it, ornament with tongue and truffles, and pour some good •tomato sauce round the base. 77. EGGS IN MATELOTE. Chop up an onion finely and fry it in loz. of butter. When it is a golden brown add equal quantities of claret and water, about •a gill and a half of each, with a, bunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, coralline pepper and salt to taste, and a grate of snutmeg. Let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, then draw dhe saucepan to the side of the fire, and poach in it some eggs, one »it a time. Take them out carefully ns they are done, and let them Idrain on a sieve, strain the liquor into a small saucepan, add a [teaspoonful of arrowroot, and let it boil till sufficiently reduced, mavc ready some round croutons of bread fried, arrange them on •a hot dish with a poached egp on each, pour the sauce all over Sthem, and serve as hot as possible. 78.—HOT POT. Parboil some onions and potatoes, strain and cut lliem into •dices lin. thick. Put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of an earthenware (fireproof) piedish. Cut any cold meat into slices, put 3•a-layer, then a layer of onions, and continue till the dish is full Pour over enough well-seasoned stock to cover it, and bake for an hour. 79 —TOMATO BASKETS. . Take six nice round tomatoes and hollow out centre very care- jjully, leaving a strip to form a handle. Season the inside with a 'little pepper and salt, and nearly fill with a good mayonnaise