33t Recipes. ’with cream. Place a neatly poached ogg on top, and serve very lUot. 87.—SKATE A LA FRANCA1SE. Place four slices of skate into a fish kettle with half a sliced inion, a bay leal, a clove, a little parsley, several pepercorns, ind a cupful of ordinary vinegar, adding water to cover the skate dimmer gently till tender, skin the fish, and serve on a hot dish with tomato sauce and some pieces of olive cut and laid in the centre of each slice 88.--CURRIED SARDINES. Bone twelve sardines and lay them in a dish, and warm in the oven. Make a curry sauce by frying together half a chopped onion, one tablespoonful of curry powder, two teaspoonfuls of flour, and a little salt. Then moisten with one gill of stock to form a sauce, add twelve sultana raisins, and half a teaspoonful of desic- cated cocoanut. Arrange the sardines m a small dish and pour t.he sauce over them. Put little heaps of plain boiled rice in the corners. 88a. CURRIED PRAWNS IN CASSEROLE. Pry two small sliced onions in 4oz. of butter till brown, then remove the onions. Have the prawns ready picked, and rub into hem some curry powder. Put them into the melted butter, and > tew till they are brown. Place in a small casserole, and add as ■much brown stock as will just cover the prawns, and stew them ■ lowly for five minutes. To two breakfastcupfuls of prawns add ,<our teaspoonfuls of desiccated cocoanut, the juice of half a semon. and a tablespoonful of mango chutney. Stir all well to- gether till hot, and serve in the casserole. 89.—MINCED MUTTON AND SCRAMBLED EGG __ Mince some mutton very fine, and warm it in a good brown ravy and tomato ketchup, eciual parts of each. Prepare some scrambled eggs, arrange it ill n circle on a dish, and pul (he wince in the centre with slices of grilled tomato on top. 90 BRUSSELS SPROUTS A LA MARIE . Boil some sprouts until tender, taking care not to break them • ut some bacon into small dice and fry them. Butter a flat baking lsli put in a layer of sprouts, fill up the spaceB between each with me dice of bacon, sprinkle some grated Parmesan over, put another “fer of sprouts, cover with Parmesan sauce, and bake for fifteen Parmksan Sauce—Fry Iqz. of butter with loz. of flour, mix ; itti half a pint of stock stir till they boil, add two tablespoonfuls ■LJrate“ ”artnesan and a little cream, boil up again and strain, ind pour over the dish of sprouts. 91. TIMBALE OF TEAL AND RABBIT. Mince the remains of teal and rabbit. To lib. add ',1b. of bread- ’riimhs moistened with stock, a little parsley, and salt and pepper -me a plain buttered mould with half-cooked broad macaroni Pol rm^!V,re In-*Cuare& a,"cl steam. f°r an hour. Serve with good rov.n sauce with a little sherry in it.