Menus for Every Day of the Year. 410 227.—CAULIFLOWER CREAMS. Line some fancy moulds with aspic jelly and garnish with rings of red chilli and truffle, putting a little powdered parsley into each ring. Fill up with the cauliflower cream, and when set dish on a bed of hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a coarBe sieve. Pat the Cream : Cook the white part only of two cau.iflowers in mile, and w'hen soft rub through a sieve, together with the whites of three hard-boiled eggs. Season with salt and pepper, and to eaco tablespoonful of puree add one of whipped cream and half a - ot gelatine dissolved in milk. Half fill the moulds, then put in a layer of fresh cocoanut (gratedj, and fill up with cauliflower cream. 228.—CURRIED SARDINES. Bone the required number of good sardines and rub them over thickly with a good curry paste. Cut some thin slices of brown bread from a fairly fresh loaf, butter them, and roll each sardine up tightly in this. Arrange them side by side in a dish, and serve with plenty of fried parsley. Cold. 229.—CHICKEN SAVOURY. Roast a chicken in an earthenware dish with a lid on; when cooked, cut it into portions and remove all skin, keep in hot dish in which they were cooked without allowing gravy to boil. Pound the skin and carcass of chicken, add a tablespoonful of liquid glaze, and a gill of stock and some white wine. Reduce to creamy consistency, add some cooked mushrooms, pour the sauce over the chicken, and serve hot. This can also be served cold by pour- ing the sauce over the pieces of chicken and allowing all to cool together. 230.—KR0MESK1ES OF BEEF. Ingredients : Remains of cold beef, brown sauce, bacon, batter. Method : Take about four tablespoonfuls of good brown sauce and add to it six tablespoonfuls of cooked beef cut in dice suapes, and set aside to cool. Take some very thin slices of bacon and put a little of the mixture on each slice, roll the bacon round, taking care to fasten up the ends, dip each piece in batter, and fry a nice golden colour. Dish on a paper, and garnish with ined pa,sley231_SAUSAGES AND CHESTNUTS Fry three sausages in a little fat until they are 3 nice dark brown on the outside. Always drop sausages into boiling water before cooking them to prevent the skin from bursting. ‘,1b. of chestnuts, skin them and rub through a sieve. try some rounds of bread, cut the sausages into slices, and lay one on each round, add pepper and salt and a few drops of the juice ot mango chutney. Sprinkle thickly' with grated chestnut, and serve verv hot. _ 232, -VEAL CREAM. Pound 4oz. of veal cutlet in a mortar and pass it through a sieve Add a quarter of a pint of cream and a quarter ot a pint ot milk, some salt and pepper, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Beat two eggs to a froth, add the mixture, and stir thoroughly. Pour into small buttered moulds, and steam near the boiling point for thirty minutes. Ornament with truffles, and serve with grilled tomatoes.