Mcvus for Every Day of the Year. 45* place to rise for ten minutes. Fry them in boiling fat unti. a light brown. Drain well, and serve very hot. 464.—ICED CREAM OF GREEN TEA. Make half a pint of strong tea with a good flavour: a littJe orange pekoe mixed with China tea at about 2s. 4d. a pound is best. Infuse three slices of lemon at the same time in the tea. Remove the lemon, and add half a pint of thin cream and one gill of whipped cream, and sweeten to taste. Freeze, and serve in small cases with small sponge fingers. 465.—APPLE TARTLETS. 1. Bake some small tartlets of puff paste. Have the same number of dried apricots which have been stewed till tender and cut into small bits. Line the bottom of each tartlet with apricot, fill up with cooked apple pulp, and warm in the oven for two minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 2. Make some small puff pastry tartlets. Cut some apples into Quarters, and stew them gently not to break them. Lay them in the tartlets, and keep them warm. Melt some apricot jam until thin, pour it over the apple, filling the tart, and place a Email puff of white of egg whipped stiff on top. Serve hot. 466.—SPONGE CREAM. Cut some stale cake into slices, spread with any kind of jam, then cut in squares and soak in sherry. Whip some cream stiff, add some dissolved gelatine, and mix altogether. Put into an oiled mould until set. A macaroon or ratafia crumbled up improves the flavour. 467.—CREAM SOLIDS. LEMON SOLIDS Put into a glass dish the juice of three lemons and the grated rind of two. Place in a saucepan half a stick of vanilla. lOoz. of sugar, and one quart of cream. Let them boil slowly for ten minutes. When tepid, pour this mixture into the glass dish, removing the stick of vanilla-. Stir it very little, and let it set. Serve cold in the dish. 468.—RAINBOW PUDDING. Place in a saucepan loz. of Marshall's gelatine, three-quarters of a pint of water, the rind of a lemon, ana a winegiassfu. of sherry. Keep on the fire till gelatine dissolves. Remove the rind, add the juice of the lemon and a tablespoonful of sugar, and simmer for five minutes. Strain off. and add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Place all in a porcelain-lined milk boiler, and stir until about to boil. Remove, and when nearly cold pour into a mould and serve very cold. 469.—SOUFFLE EN SURPRISE. Take a nice macedoine of fruit, iced and flavoured well with wines. Line the bottom of a souffle dish with the macedoine. Next have ready some vanilla cream, iced Fill the dish up to the top, smootli over them a good heap of Italian meringue mixture. When ready for using pass a hot salamander ah round, and brown. Serve at once.