Recipes. 403 up the rhubarb and put it into a saucepan with the lemon rind butter, sugar, and water. Cook slowly till it is quite soft, pass through a hair sieve, add a lew drops of lemon juice and carmine and re-heat. 1S2.—FRENCH BEANS AND PRAWNS IN CASES. Take some French beans which have been boiled till tendei remove any strings from the sides, and cut into dice. Clean some small prawns and cut them into small pieces, mix with the beans and warm them m butter in a pan over the lire, add one teaspoon- u-iiiianc 1”vy essence- Warm some small china cases and fill with the mixture. Cover the top of some with beans, and the others with whole prawns. Dublin Bay prawns are too large and would have to be cut. ’ 193.—CRAB SALAD. Take two fair-sized crabs, remove the best part of the meat, and shred finely. Make a mixture of some salad oil, a very little vinegar, pepper and salt, and stir into the mincod crab Fill the shells with the mixture and garnish each top with a centre of hard o°1r1.ed ki°tieSg Cnd,a border of the chopped white of the egg. ocrve with lettuce, beetroot, and tomato salad. 194.—SAVOURY RICE. nr5lh°Pwe °cmon a-nd fry in butter. Stir in one teacupful of rice t/ll ww°r P,Vt fmuttes’ ?dd °,t?e 151n,t of gravy, and let it simmer till tender. Put two tomatoes through a sieve and add the pulp -and two pounded sardines. Mix all thoroughly over ' itlrrlng constantly. Put into a well-butte:ed mould and bake for ten minutes. Turn out and serve hot. 195.—PRESSED CALF’S HEAD. _ calf ? jlfad ^i1 tender. Bone it, and spread it out flat on rPVn-kte su uand pe!lper °n it and some nutmeg and parsley. Cut into half-moon shapes three hard-boiled e^es and tmlnu- °n„oheinme,at , V,a3tl,y p,°Vfer v,ih thi,n slices of haim3 Roll cnlrl Rol doth, boil for three hours, and press till cold. Remove binding just before serving. 196.—SAVOURY PORK PIE. This is for using up the remains of cold pork. Cut up any lean addk-ln|t0 8I?a Pieces and fill a piedish about half wit if this add £ dessertspoonful of finely chopped onion and three times as much apple, sprinkle with salt and plenty of pepper. Now pour e°* i b°t gravy to cover the meat, then put a layer of hot rnfbfd p,ot-atoe3 <pot mashed, but broken lightly). Have ready a ntlwer„P am crust ,and SoveT with U■ Bake at once in ” good men, and remove when the crust is done. This is a favourite wav “nto Mb UnPF fl0ld POrf'i For.th? arust, rub 4oz. of lard or butter Marsl ili’s LSfnf’onld a P1"ch -u sa t, and °'ie teaspoonful of Marshall a baking powder; mix with cold water, and use. 19T BRAISED PARTRIDGE AND CABBAGE hnvlfff anc^U'?nWarec Vising pot with two peeled shallots, one bayleaf, some sates of fat bacon, a bunch of herbs a blndo of birds' ffe a I »?fd Karrot- £ut in tlle Partridges, and cook till the Pitlwn ™ oil* kv.r°WI1 • F°ur over them a P'nt of good stock, two small cabbages into quarters, and half boil in very salt D D 2