426 Mi nus for Every Day of /he Year. when this is dissolved stir the mixture on to three raw yolks of eggs, and return it to the stewpan. Stir over the fire till it thic ken*, then tammy, and set it aside till somewhat cool; add to it a few drops of vanilla essence, a wineglass of Silver Kays (white; rum, and half a pint of stiffly whipped double cream. Stir together till the mixture begins to set, then pour it into a jelly mould that has been lined with cream, prepared as below. Set it aside till co.o then dip the mould into hot water, and turn out the bavaroue on to a dish on a paper, and use as a sweet for a ball supper o: for dinner, &c. Cream for Bavaroise a la Ceylon.—Take half a pint of lemon jelly in ■which three sheets of Marshall’s finest leaf gelatine a:- dissolved; then strain it, and flavour with half a wineglass o: maraschino or noyeau syrup and the same quantity of Silver Rays (white) rum, and when cooling add a quarter ot a pint o. thick cream. Stir till beginning to thicken, then add a few drop of Marshall’s carmine to mottle the cream, and use for lining tl,e mould, as instructed above.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 312.—BAKED APRICOT PUDDING. Line a piedish with good short paste, and put in a layer of apricot jam. Mix thoroughly 3oz. of butter, 2oz. of pounded almonds, and sugar to taste. Beat up three eggs, and mix with one pint of milk. Then beat up all the ingredients together .pour on to the jam, and bake in a good warm oven for nearly an hour Serve with stiff white of egg on top. 313.—PEAR JELLIES. ALSO APRICOT JELLIES AND PEACH JELLIES. Make half a pint of pear puree. Melt loz. of gelatine, and mix with the puree, sweeten to taste. Pour into little moulds to set. When quite cold, turn out and ornament with cream on top. 314. —ALMOND CROQUETTES. Put 7oz. of rice, loz. of ground sweet almonds, 4oz. of loaf sugar, one and a half pints of milk, into a saucepan, and simmer over the fire until the milk is dried up. The rice must be tender. Just before removing from the fire stir in six drops of bitter almonds. When the rice is cold, form it into small balls. Dip them in egg and breadcrumb, and fry in boiling lard for ten minutes, turning them constantly. Drain them on a cloth in front of the fire, grate a little, sweet almond over them, and serve hot with a sweet sauce. 315. —AUSTERL1TZ PUDDING. Mix to a cream 2oz. of ground sweet almonds, loz of sugar, 2oz of butter, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. When well mixed add a wineglassful of cherry brandy. Bent the whites of the eve- stiff, and mix them in. Decorate a buttered mould with pistachio 'nuts and cherries, fill with the mixture, and bake it for three quarters of an hour. Serve hot. 316.—ORANGE BASKETS. The oranges should bo a good shape and sweet, and should b cut so as to leave a handle. It is more economical to cut the orange through the middle, and make a handle of angelica Scoop