460 Menus for Every Day oj the Year. nice dark colour, and there should be very little liquid left; thicken it with a teaspoonful of cornflour. Meanwhile have a well- shaped case of puff paste. Put in the pears and garnish with whipped cream flavoured with maraschino, or make a meringue with a whipped white of egg and sugar, and lightly brown in the oven. 509. —FRUIT BASKETS. Make or buy some small cakes of Genoese pastry. Scoop out the centres and spread a little strawberry jam on tlie edges, and dip them in cocoanut. Fill the hollow centres with apricots, or peaches, or stewed fruit of any sort, and cover with whipped cream. Put strips of angelica over the top to form handles. 510. —BRANDY SNAPS. 1. Put into a saucepan 4oz. of butter, 4oz. of sugar, 4oz. of golden syrup. Warm very slightly. Put 4oz. of fine flour into a basin with half a teaspoonful of ground ginger. Stir in the warm ingredients very carefully. Drop small pieces on to a well- buttered baking sheet. Bake in a moderate oven till a nice golden brown. When about half cold curl round a rolling pin. 2. Warm -',1b. of butter with 11b. of treacle, then add 6oz. of flour and lib. of brown sugar. Add ground ginger and essence of lemon to taste. Mix well and drop on a well-buttered baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven till a golden brown, then curl on round pieces of wood. They must be curled while hot. 511. KING’S PUDDING. Mix two tablespoonfuls of ground rice, the same of sugar, and loz. of cornflour with a quarter of a pint of milk; add a pinch ot salt. Put three-quarters of a pint of milk and loz. of butter in a saucepan, and bring to the boil, then add the first mixture and boil all together for ten minutes. Let it cool; add the well- beaten yolks of four eggs, and mix well, then add the whiles which have been beaten stiff. Put all in a buttered mould, and bake for thirty-five minutes. Serve with a sweet sauce 512.—ORANGE MOULD OR STRAWBERRY MOULD. Prepare a stiff syrup made of boiling equal quantities of sugar and water. Peel some good sweet oranges, removing the pith, cut into quarter-inch slices, and take out the pips. Dip these slices in syrup, and arrange them round the sides of a well-oiled ring mould. Fill the centre with a custard stiffened with Marshall’s gelatine and flavoured with the juice of two oranges. Let it set and cool. Turn out, and fill the middle of the mould with orange salad and whipped cream. . . Orange Salad.—Cut some oranges into small pieces, keeping free from pith and pips. Pour over it some fig syrup with no seeds in it, and a glass of curagoa, and use. 513.—BLACK CURRANT PUDDING. One pint of black currants stewed with 3oz. of loaf sugar and one spoonful of water. When cooked enough, b?^r,“lfplcdl: 1 and make a custard with two whole eggs whipped in half a pint of hot milk and sugar to taste Put a little of the custard then currants, till the piedish is full, then bake for half an hour.