Recipes. 475 them on a baking sheet and sprinkle thickly with icing sugar. When the sugar has turned to caramel the almonds are pralines. 687.—ORANGE TARTS. Line some little dishes with puli paste. Peel some oranges and cut into thick round slices, soak them tor twenty-four hours, changing the water three times; then boil the slices slowly in a syrup made of sugar and water and a glass of rum. When tender, place them in layers in the puff paste dishes. Sprinkle with sugar if required, and serve hot or cold. 588.—APPLE CHEESE CAKES. Take £lb. of apple pulp. Melt into 4oz. of butter and 3oz. of sifted sugar the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two eggs, also the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Stir all well together and put into some little patty pans which have previously been lined with good puff paste. 58a.—TIMBALE A LA CELESTINE. Peel the ripe peaches (or uso whole tinned fruit) and cut them in thin slices—from the outside to the stone—and lay the slices on ti a. clean baking tin. Colour the part of each slice which was touching the stone with liquid carmine to heighten the natural colour. Line a fancy jelly mould with lemon jelly that is well flavoured with liqueur about one-eightli of an inch thick, and set the slices of peach all round, putting the coloured part next to the mould and setting each layer with more jelly to keep it in place. When the inside of the mould is covered with fruit, fill up with more peaches and jelly until the mould is full. When set, turn out on a dish. If your mould has a pipe in it, fill up the space with whipped cream sweetened and coloured with carmine and flavoured with vanilla. Garnish the toil of the cream and dish with shredded cocoanut or desiccated cocoonut, and sprinkle with a little chopped pistachio.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 590.—WALNUT CREAM. Peel 11b. of fresh walnuts, and chop them very finely. Bake one large apple and rub it through a sieve; do not peel it. Beat up the apple puree with half a pint of cream, a little milk, and six drops of vanilla essence; add the walnuts chopped.«,finely. Mix well together, and serve in glasses with chopped walnut on top. This could be iced. 591.—MUSHROOM MERINGUES. Make a meringue mixture of four whites of eggs and 8oz. of caster sugar. Place the mixture in a bag with a plain pipe, and force out rounds about the size of small mushrooms; sprinkle over these a mixture of powdered chocolate and caster sugar. On to another paper force an equal number of strips, about an inch and a half long, for the stalks, and sprinkle these the same as the rounds, then dry them in a cool oven. When dry enough, fix a stalk and a top together with cake icing, dip the bottom of the stalks in the white of an egg, and roll in chocolate to represent earth. Whip some cream stiff, sweeten, and flavour with vanilla. Place in a dish, and stick the mushrooms in this as if they w’ero growing.