440 Menus for Every Day of the Dear place in a souffle dish, and hake for nearly thirty minutes 8<-rv instantly. Potato souffle is made by using potato flour in place of rice 392.—FRUIT CUSTARDS Squeeze the juice out of four oranges, sweeten to taste, any- place over the fire. Stir it till the skum rises; carefully removi this, and set to cool. Thoroughly beat the yolks of three egg- and a quarter of a pint of cream; place all the ingredients into a saucepan, and stir slowly till the mixture thickens. Pour into custard glasses, and serve iced if possible; a little liqueur or the whipped white of the eggs can be used as a change. 393.—APPLE MARMALADES. Prepare required amount of apple pulp. Make a thick syrup of sugar and water, lib. of sugar to each pound of pulp. Add syrup and pulp, and stir over the five for twenty-five minutes. Pour the jelly into the moulds, and when cold turn out, and serve with a good custard. 394.—COLD GOOSEBERRY SOUFFLE. Prepare a teacupful of gooseberry or apple pulp. Whisk the whites of four eggs very stiff, stir in two dessertspoonfuls of sugar, half a wineglassful of sherry, and lastly the pulp. Put into a buttered mould, stand the mould in a tin half filled with warcn water, and bake for one hour. Turn out, and serve cold with whipped cream. 395.—SWEET BREAD PUDDING WITH CHERRIES Boil half a pint of new milk, then mix into it 2oz. of freshly made breadcrumbs, a strip of thinly cut lemon peel, and lcz. of butter; boil for about ten minutes. Beat up two whole eggs, add 3oz. of caster sugar and half a pint of milk; mix well together into the boiling milk and breadcrumbs. Pour into a buttered pie- dish, sprinkle it with 2oz. of dried cherries cut in shreds, put a few little bits of butter on top, and bake in a moderate oven til! a golden colour.—Mrs A. B. Marshall. 396.—CARRAWAY PUDDING. Make some castle puddings with a few carraway seeds in them. Cut off a lid, hollow out the centre, fill with ice cream in which there are chopped cherries or strawberries. Replace the lid and 397.—APPLES A LA PRINCESS MAUDE Make a puree of 141b. of cooking apples, add to this Joe. of Marshall’s finest leaf gelatine, and pass through a tammy. Divide the puree into two parts; redden one of them with liquid carmine and whiten the other with a little thick cream. Put them into separate saucepans to about a quarter of an inch thick, and let them set; put the pans on broken ice. When the puree is set. cut out in rounds with a plain cutter about the size of a shilling for ornamenting round the mould, and in the centre of each of the rounds set a little round of angelica with a little liquid jelly. Line a plain charlotte mould with lemon jelly to about one-eighth of an inch thick. Set the cut leaves of apple puree regularly on the bottom of the mould, with the stalk ends at the centre and the rounds regularly round the side of the mould in alternate