LUNCHEON AND DINNER SWEETS. 263.—PLUM PODDING. One pound of flour, lib. of beef suet, lib. of raisins (stoned . Mb. of currants. 11b. of sultanas, 1.1b of sugar, :1b. of glace cherries, a wineglass of brandy, a little spice, a teaspooniul ground cloves, five eggs, 2oz. of mixed peel cut very thun IW all well together, and wet with a little nnlk. It wants mixing:. Butter a basin and then flour the top of the padding. Tie a cloth over it. Boil about ten hours, five or six one day and about four another. 264.—BAVAROISE VAN1LLE. Boil a good three-quarters of a pint of milk with 3 inches of vanilla pod split in two. As soon as the milk comes to the bo.l leave it on the Bide of the stove m the bam marie for about fit teen minutes to infuse, then dissolve in it 3oz. of castor sugar and .oz. of Marshall’ffinest leaf gelatine. Mix this with three raw vo'ks of eggs in a saucepan and stir over, the fire till it thickens_ St min through the tammy, and when it is oegmning to set mix into it half a pint of plainly whipped cream and a few drops of vanilla essence Pour the mixture into any fancy mould and let.it set ft is best to put it on ice if you have any.,^^“ove^th^bottom in warm water, pass a cloth over the mould and over the Dot 10m to absorb any water, turn it out on to a dish, paper, or napkin, and serve.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall. 265.—BANANAS AU RHUM. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in two of rum. Cut some bana°*~: into slices 1 in thick, and fry in the butter till brown and very hot. Serve them in a nice open tart of. short paste with the sauqp over them. Mix a few drops of lemon into the sauce. 266. -LEMON PIE. Line a piedish with puff paste. Make a mixture of cornflour flavoured with the juice of a lemon and a little grated rind Pour into the dish and bake. ng7 \PRICOT TRIFLE. BANANA TRIFLE PEAR TRIFLE. " { Make a puree of apricots and have some wlupped c^m Mix larg. penrs. pEArH Tr,FI.E PEAR TRIFLE o Preserved peaches, liqueur, sponge cakes apple jelly Me it he appl.e jeil°y. Mix with the liqueur and soak the cakes in it. Place