Menus for Every Day of the Year. 512 776.— PRAWNS EN SURPRISE. Pick a dozen large prawns and chop finely. Make sue slices • : thin brown bread and butter. The bread must be cut from an old loaf and the crust must be cut off. Then mix the chopped prawns with a little stiffly beaten cream, add a squeeze of lemon juice anc a sprinkling of black pepper and cayenne. Place a little mouna in the centre of each slice of bread. Roll them up, and ser.e cm slices of raw tomato with a spoonful of cream, and use a prawn s head on each as garniture. 777. —SAVOURY OLIVES. Turn some olives and fill them with a puree of anchovy. Place them in threes on small rounds of brown bread and butter and put a small bunch of mustard and cress in the centre of each. 778. —SAVOURY BREAD. Some thin slices of white or brown bread, buttered and cut into strips. Make a smooth paste of grated cheese, the yolk of an egg (hard boiled), a sardine, and a piece of tongue. Spread on the strips of bread and serve on a salad. 779. —PRAWN SAVOURY. Well pound two dozen prawns and mix with half a pint of mayonnaise aspic. Put this into a bag with a rose pipe, and force straight down some rather thickly cut anchovy sandwiches that have been cut into finger lengths. Cut the sides even so that the anchovy butter can be seen, garnish each side with little spngs oi cress, and coat over with some liquid aspic jelly. 7S0.—CAPER TOAST. Prepare some fingers of buttered toast. Pound in a mortar one tablespoonful of capers, one sardine, salt and pepper. Spread the paste on the toast, sprinkle with fried chopped parsley, ana serve hot. 781.—CORALLINE FINGERS. Take 2oz cf butter, 2oz. of flour, 2Ioz. of grated cheese, a pinch of celery salt and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Mix all thoroughly into a paste, roll out, and cut into fingers 3 inches long. Bake them and serve very hot with a line of coralline pepper m the centre of each. 782 _CAV1AEE CROUTES. Open a fresh jar of Russian caviare and prepare a fried eroute Make a ring by cutting a slice of tomato and removing some of the centre. Place the caviare in the centre of the eroute and the ring of tomato round, and serve hot or cold. 783.—STUFFED OLIVES. Prepare some small rounds of buttered brown bread and put a good layer of caviare on each. Turn same number of olives, and fill each with shrimp paste or Luxette paste. Place on the bread, and squeeze a little lemon juice over all. Serve m a dish ot salad. 784.—MANGO TOAST. Chop two tablespoonfuls of mango chutney into fine pieces Mix with the yolk of two hard-boiled eggs and some pepper and salt