Menus for Every f)ay of the Year. 3§4 with chicken minced into dice, and mixed with choitped oelermc and lettuce and aspic jlely. Let get cold, and serve with a salad. 102.—STEWED KIDNEYS AND SCRAMBLED EGGS Prepare six mutton kidneys and cut each into four pieces. Stew the twenty-four small pieces, in just enough tomato jube to cover them, very slowly for twenty minutes. Add an onion, some chopped sage and parsley, and continue stewing for ten minutes. Have a very hot dish, put a circle of scrambled eggs in it, and carefully empty the kidney into the centre. Serve very hot. 103.—BAKED EGGS. ANCHOVY SAUCE. Place a slice of tomato at the bottom of a little egg dish, hreak in an, egg carefully, pour over it a teaspoonful of cream. Bake till quite set. Warm some anchovy sauce and pour over the eggs just before serving. 104.—MARROW AND MUSHROOMS. Peel and well wash and dry some fresh mushrooms, season with a, little coralline pepper, salt, chopped parsley, chopped eschalot, and a tablespoonful of good gravy. Put the mushrooms in a we! - buttered saute pan with a buttered paper over them, and cook them on the side of the stove or in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes, keeping them well basted while cooking. Put into a stewpan two or three tablespoonfuls of brown sauce, half an eschalot, a tablespoonful of sherry or mushroom liquor. -_oz. of glaze; let it boil up, then add some pieces of blanched beef marrow cut in slices about i inch thick, but do not let the sauce boil after the marrow is added or it will become oily. Fry some little rounds of white bread till a nice golden colour, place a mushroom on each, and dish them in a round like cutlets on a very hot dish. Mix together the sauce and the liquor from the cooked mushrooms and pour this over the mushrooms, and place a slice of marrow on each. This dish must be served very hot for breakfast or second course. 105.—TOMATOES A LA NEVILLE. Remove the peel from some small ripe, sound tomatoes with a sharp-pointed knife, and Open the top parts round the core, then with a small scoop remove the seedy part and season the inside of the tomatoes with the seasoning used for the artichokes belo-w. and by means of a, forcing bag and plain pipe fill them up with a. puree of chicken prepared as below. Mask over entirely the outside of the tomatoes with aspic cream, ga'rnish the tops with a little ring or star of truffle, and set this to the aspic cream with a little liquid aspic jelly; dish up the tomatoes on cooked artichoke bottoms that are seasoned with a little finely chopped eschalot and parsley, or tarragon and chervil, and serve for a second course or luncheon dish, or for ball supper. Chicken Puree. For six to eight small tomatoes take Mb of cooked chicken, free from bone and skin, one large tablespoonful of thick cream, one tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce, a little salt and coralline pepper, and a teaspoonful of Liebig Compare ~ extract, of meat. Pound all together till smooth, then rub it through a fine hair sieve and use.—Mrs. A. B. Marshall.