466 Menus for Every Day of the Year 537.—BLACKBERRY SHORTCAKE. Two breakt'astcupfuls of flour, two heaped-up teagpoonfuls of baking powder, and 2oz. of caster sugar. Rub {lb. of but! into the flour, and then drop in the yolk of an egg, well beater:. a,nd two-thirds of a tumbler of milk. Mix well, and then r< 1 out. Divide into two portions, and then roll out eacl butter the top of one portion liberally. Lay the other half on the top. and place in a buttered sheet in the oven. Bake until done. In the meantime mash lib. of very ripe black lx? Tries, and mix with a gill of thick cream and caster sugar to taste Vi,!;f;n the cakes are done, separate them and set aside tej cool. Then spread half the fruit between the two cakes and the remainder on the top. Cover last of all with whipped cream, and 6erve. 538.—PORCUPINE PUDDING. Melt 2oz. of butter, add the weight of one egg in four and breadcrumbs, and mix well. Beat the egg very well and add it, also two dessertspoonfuls of strawberry jam and a quarter of a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and a few drops of ^annia essence. Mix well, and steam for one hour in a well-buttered pudding basin. Serve hot with a hot strawberry sauce. 539.—SPAGHETTI A LA JOSEPHINE. Boil 2oz. of spaghetti for ten minutes, then chop very Sne. Make a good custard as follows : One pint of milk, three eggs, two spoonfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoa- nut, six sheets of Marshall's gelatine. Add the spaghetti, stir all well together, pour all into a mould, and set upon ice until wanted. Turn out, and serve with single cream. 540.—BROWN BREADCRUMB PUDDING. One cupful of brown breadcrumbs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of milk, and two eggs. Beat up all well together. Butter some little cups, and bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, or till a nice brown on the top. Turn out, and put some jam and cream °n t0P' 541.—CHIPOLATA. Soak ioz. of gelatine in a little water for a quarter of an hour. Make a custard of a pint of milk, two eggs, and two i-able- spoonfuls of sugar. Take nine sponge biscuits, slice thinly, soak in half a wineglassful of vanderlium, or the syrup in which peaches have been preserved. Garnish a buttered porcelain mou.a with little bits of citron preserve, tomato preserve, or Cape gooseberry, then put in a layer of soaked biscuits. Have ready any kind of preserve, such as yellow peaches (preserved in brandy), water melon, or ginger (cut small'. Put in a layer ot preserve, then some more soaked sponge biscuits,. pour over 'be whole the custard (which must be warm' to fill the mould, and let it stand overnight. If ice is handy, this pudding is greaily improved by being iced. 542.—TIMBALE OF CHERRIES. Take lib. of very fine cherries, stone them, stew the in a epod syrup, then put aside to get cold. Line a mould with jelly that