43^ Menus for Every Day of the Vear. the mould, allowing each to set before putting in the following one. When set, turn out in the usual way, and serve on a dish paper.—Mrs A. B. Marshall. 381.—JAM FRITTERS. Take two tablespoonfuls of fine flour, and pour over it enough boiling water to make a smooth paste. Bet it cool for a minute, and then beat in the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two eggs. Mix all well together. Drop a tablespoonful of batter at. a time into a pan of boiling lard, and fry a good colour. Serve with a little apple jelly on each. 382.—PUDDING A LA .LOUISE. Line a charlotte mould thinly with lemon jelly, and ornament it with pieces of cut dried apricot, angelica, cherries, and little bunches of dried cocoanut, all of which are first set with a little lemon jelly; set the garnish to the mould with a little • more jelly, and when this is firm line the mould with rum cream prepare! as below. Let this set, then fill up the centre with the pudding mixture prepared as below, and put the shape aside till the pudding is set; then dip it into hot water, and turn out the pudding on to a dish on a silver or gold dessert paper, and serve it for a sweet for dinner or luncheon. Rum Cream.—Take a quarter of a pint of whipped cream, strain into it a quarter of a pint of lemon jelly in which four sheets of Marshall’s jelatine have been dissolved, colour with a few drops of Marshall’s carmine, flavour with half a wineglass of Silver Rays (white) rum, then use. Pudding Mixture.—Boil half a pint of new milk with a split vanilla pod and 2oz. of caster sugar. When sufficiently flavoured dissolve in it loz. of Marshall’s gelatine, and stir it all together with three raw yolks of eggs that have been mixed together till smooth; stir over the fire till thickening, then wring it through a clean tammy cloth, and when beginning to set mix with it two and a half gills of stiffly whipped cream, add half a wineglass of Silver Rays (white) rum, a wineglass of maraschino syrup, a good dust of ground cinnamon, 11b. of cut dried fruits, loz. of blanched almonds (skinned, chopped, and baked a nice brown colour), and 3oz. of cut-up slices of sponge cake. Stir carefully together, and then fill up the mould.- Mrs A. B. Marshall. 383.—CHERRY BRANDY FRITTERS. Stone a number of brandy cherries and dip four at a time in a good batter, fry in boiling fat till a light brown, serve very hot with a hot brandy sauce. 381.—CREAM PANCAKES Make a paste witli loz. of (lour, a little cold milk, loz. of melted butter, the grated rind of half a lemon, four lumps of sugar (crushed), and n little powdered cinnamon. Then gradually add half a pint of cream, the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, and whites of two eggs. Melt some butter in a fp'ing-pan. Drop in a spoonful of the mixture, forming a very thin layer in the pan Fry very quickly, and serve hot. 385.—BROWN BREAD CREAM. Stale bread must be used for this cream, mixed with an equa quantity of stale sponge cuke Take two sponge cakes and two