Recipes. 525 BARLEY WATER. Four tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, three pints of water one lemon' and sugar to taste. Put the barley in a saucepan will three pints of cold water, bring it to the boil, then strain and put the barley back in the saucepan with three Pints‘ water and let it simmer about twenty minutes. Peel the nnd of the lemon and put it into a jug also the strained juice and strain the barley water on to it. Sweeten to taste, and when ccdd add about one tablespoonful of curapoa, or any liqueur liked. SLOE GIN. Prick I lb. of sloes with a needle. Put two quarts ofPp? small cask, add the sloes, *lb. sugar candy and lo». of ground litter amonds. Stir all thoroughly twice in the first week. Then leave to stand till early in the new year, strain, and bottle it, and let it mature for twelve months. RASPBERRY CUP. To each pint of raspberry syrup allow the juice of one half a wineglassful of brandy, ten drops °A, f finc bottles of soda water. Ice well; decorate with clusters of toe red and white currants, raspberries, and quarters of lemon. Ser in small glasses. LEMONADE. Take six large lemons, sliced thinly,, and remove the pips. Put the fruit with their rind into a basin or jug, add soz. ot loai sugar and pour on them three pints of perfectly boilmg . water then cover the jug or basin closely down and put it aside till the next day. Strain the liquor and add two bottles of soda water, and if liked, a dust of cream of tartar can be added; also, when the boiling water is poured over, a little stick of cinnamon about twelve cloves may be added. Orangeade can be prepared similarly to the above, using oranges instead of lemons. CIDER CUP. Put into a. bowl one tablespoonful of sifted suga r., the juice of one lemon, ten drops of orange bitters Stir well, then add one bottle of sound cider, one bottle of soda water. onewincri^shU of Marshall’s Silver Rays rum. Decorate the bowl of lemon, nuggets of pineapple, and a sprig or two of borage. Ice well before serving. STRAWBERRY WINE ICED. Mash one quart of strawberries and add the juice of one and a half lemons,q and two tablespoonfuls of grange.juice and three nf□ of water Let it stand three hours, and strain it on to lib of powdered sugar, and stir thoroughly till^ quite dissolved. Serve very cold, adding one wineglassful ol Maraschino. SEASONING TO BE KEPT READY MIXED. One pound of salt, Jib. of ground white pepper, 5oz. of ground of caydiine pepper. 0 mace, ioz. 01 cay (Him: IJUVIJX. <• * "V together and keep in a closed tin ready lor use. nd wmie peppei, «u*. u* Mix all gradually and slowly