450 Menus for Every Day of the Year. been cut to the depth of the mould used, and about 1} inches wide; arrange these neatly round the mould, setting the pieces to the shape with more jelly so as to keep them in place. Then fill up the mould with some raw, ripe fruits, such as sliced apricot, orange, banana, melon, and peach, pouring in with the fruits the bavaroise prepared as below. Put it aside till set, then din the mould into hot water, and turn out the charlotte on to a fancy silver dish. Pile upon the top of the charlotte some fruits, such as cherries, grapes, currants, &c., and four or five bunches of the same may be placed round the dish at intervals, or some grape leaves may be substituted for these. Serve for a sweet for dinner, ball supper, or any cold service. Bavakoise.—Put into a stewpan half a pint of milk, the peel of two lemons, three bayleaves, and 2oz of caster sugar; bring to tin- boil, then dissolve in it loz. of Marshall’s gelatine, and stir on to three raw yolks of eggs, then mix on the fire till the bavaroise thickens, but do not let it boil; tammy it, and when cool mix with it a wineglassful of cherry brandy and one gill of stiffly whipped cream; stir till it is beginning to get cool, then use. 453.—SCHOOL PUDDING. One large cupful of vermicelli. Cover with boiling milk and let stand fifteen minutes. Mix in the yolks of two eggs well heaten, also half a cupful of preserved ginger cut in small dice and a tablespoonful of the syrup, add sugar to taste and mix all thoroughly, lastly add the heaten whites of the eggs and mix. Boil in a buttered mould for two hours, and serve with ginger sauce. 454.—SWEET RINGS. Cut out some very thin rings of white bread. Dip them in egg and breadcrumb and caster sugar, and fry a light brown. Cut some bananas into slices and fry them in a little butter in a stewpan; they should not become greasy. Drain off the butter, and lay them round the ring of bread. Fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. 455.—FIG OMELET SOUFFLE. Beat thoroughly the yolks of four eggs and mix with one and a half tablespoonfuls of sugar, some salt, four cooked ngs finely chopped, and one dessertspoonful of arrowroot. When all are smoothly mixed add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Half fill a well-buttered mould, and bake in a good oven for ten or fifteen minutes. 456 _APRIC0TS jN COFFEE CREAM Boil three-quarters of a pint of milk. fib. of loaf sugar a tea- cupful of strong coffee, for ten minutes. When half cold add quarter of a pint of cream, loz. of .melted gelatine, sixA^noota cut in half; mix well, warm up again over the fire. Pour info a wet mould a.nd let get cold. 457.—PINEAPPLE GAUFFRES. Beat up three eggs to a froth, and add a cupful of fresh Take Jib of flour, sift it lightly into a bowl, make a well in flip centre and stir in the eggs and milk by degrees Work well un til Tree from limps, and boat till quite light. Then set as.de the batter-which should bo very thin for a couple of hours.