GABRIELIS FALLOPPII MUTINENSIS OPERA. GIVEN TO THE COLLEGE BY HAEYEY AND FORMERLY BELONGING TO HIS FATHER-IN-LAW, DR. LANCELOT BROWNE.Nunc age quod superest cognosce et clarius audi. Sir Henry Halford, whose portrait by Lawrence is one of the ornaments of our dining-room, and who presided over the College from 1820 to 1844, remarked to Mr. Dawson Turner, the well-known botanist and antiquary of Norwich, that an inscription in the ‘Album Amicorum ’ of Philip de Clarges was the only autograph of Harvey which he had ever seen, and Mr. Dawson Turner has affixed a note in the album, which then belonged to him, to the effect that he had been unable to find any other waiting of Harvey’s. Mr. Dawson Turner died in 1858, and the album was bought by the British Museum at his sale on June 10, 1859. Philip de Clarges, son of a Curator of the University of Leyden, was in 1686 a theological student there, and afterwards took to medicine. His coat of arms, drawn in the album, suggests that he was related to the Sir Thomas Clarges after whom the street is called in which the present Senior Censor lives. Sir Thomas Clarges’ sister married General Monck, afterwards Duke of Albemarle, the chief actor in Charles II’s restora- tion. When Philip was in London, Thomas Clarges was practising as an apothecary. He afterwards sat in Parliament, and was created a baronet. On the first page of the album is the signature of Dr. James Primrose, with the date June 8, 1641. He had been examined by Harvey, then a Censor, in 1629, for admission to the licence of this College, and passed. He was a pupil of Biolan, and, like his teacher, did not accept Harvey’s demonstration of the circulation, and wrote a treatise against it. Harvey’s inscription is the fourth—“ Dii laboribus omnia vendunt | Nobilissimo juveni medico Phillipo de Clarges amicitiae ergo libenter scripsit | Gul. Harveus | Anglus Med. Beg. et Anatomie professor: Londini | May 8. A.D. 1641.” | In the ninety-four years which have elapsed since Halford was first elected President three other examples of Harvey’s writing have been found in the British Museum. These are the autograph of his lecture notes of 1616, which this College has published in fac-simile; his lecture notes of 1627, described by Dr. George Paget in 1850; and the marginal notes on his copy of Dr. Goulston’s edition of the e Opuscula of Galen,’ which I chanced to discover in 1888. In the past month I have found in our library a copy of Falloppius containing several brief annotations in Harvey’s hand, some of them signed with his joined initials WH, and others marked by the capital delta with which he was accustomed to indicate that he had himself observed a par- ticular fact. The book is a folio, “ Gabrielis Falloppii Mutinensis Opera quae adhuc extant omnia Francofurti: Apud lieredes Andreae Wecheli, 1584.” The sides of the binding are original and are stamped with a beautiful central panel. On the two original fly-leaves at the beginning are notes of contents in a sixteenth century hand, that of the first owner of the book. He has written his name on the title-page, “ Sum Lanceloti Brunii.” This was Dr. Lancelot Browne, a fellow of Pembroke at Cam- bridge, who was elected a fellow of our College in the year that this edition of Falloppius was published. Like the present fellow of this College who bears his name, and is also a fellow of Pembroke, Dr. Browne knew