43 individual, but universal good ? Snch conduct, reason tells them, would be just and becoming; but, alas ! it is not by reason, it is by the gratification of their own prejudiced feelings that men, for the most part, veer, and tack, and steer their course. From what has preceded, it will be tolerably apparent, we imagine, that a dissected body undergoes no abuse, dis- honour, or infamy; that to be anatomized, in a word, is no unnatural ovfrightfid process ; that it presents nothing more revolting to the feelings of an unprejudiced and sensible person, than the common mode of disposing of the dead. So far, in fact, as levity or profanity of treatment towards the latter is concerned, all must allow that it is a mark of much higher respect and esteem, to be at great pains and expense in preparing and preserving the mortal remains of a fellow-creature, than to throw them heedlessly into the murky grave, there to await certain corruption. Turning with disgust from the thoughts of this inevitable change, men have represented it under more delicate and refined terms. They have converted the loathsome 'putrefaction of organic matter, into an undisturbed natural decay, a gradual moiddering into clay ; and the grave itself into a peacefid haven of rest, a sacred receptacle, in which the dead sleep quietly!* Vain illusion ! This quiet repose in the sanctuary • As death and all things concerning it were ominous and ill-boding, the Greeks expressed it under softening terms. So that instead of ' to die' they made use of the words to be unborn—to depart out of the world—to sleep—to repose—to sleep the common sleep of man—and the tomb itself was called a sleeping place. The language of the Romans was of a precisely similar na- ture. Denatatus, obdormivit, abiit, vixit, fuit, &c. Thus a later Latin poet ;— Quidnam sibi saxa cavata Quid pulchra volunt monuments? Res quod nisi creditur illis Non mortua sed data somno. The very ground itself where the dead reposed, was considered sacred by the ancients, and when once consecrated bij a dead body, it ever afterwards re- mained a sanctified spot. Indeed no earthly power could destroy this sup-