76 tures. To deprive him of this power, is at once to plunge him into that dark labyrinth of speculation which has so long been the bane of a benign and noble science. It is to clog and impede the progress of improvement; repress the native bent of genius ; discourage the efforts of industry, and blight the ardour of zeal. Every member of the pro- fession ought to possess the same means of honourable dis- tinction ; we can never sufficiently deprecate the introduc- tion of any measure which may tend to restrict anatomical researches to a few favoured teachers. To limit the dissec- tion of bodies lawfully obtained, or to throw any obstacles in its way, is to impede the progress of medical knowledge, and arrest the stream of beneficence which flows thence to man. Against unjustifiable restrictions of this kind, every honest voice ought to be raised. The members of the pro- fession constitute, surely, a sufficient limitation in their own number. They who speak of permitting dissection to a certain extent only, do not consider that the very nature of the process will always limit its practice. There is not the least fear of its undue extension, and no occasion, therefore, for artificial restraints. It is very far from being one of those pleasing and agreeable occupations in which all de- light. The steady pursuit of anatomy is the result of a natural thirst for knowledge, and an ardent desire of im- provement, which, alas ! comparatively few of the profes- sion evince. It exacts, moreover, a greater sacrifice of time than many are able or willing to make. These in- herent obstacles to anatomy are of no trifling magnitude, and they yield additional evidence of the necessity of af- fording every possible means for its facilitation. When it is remembered how many practitioners are careless and in- different about the advancement of medical science; how many look upon it simply in a lucrative point of view ; when it is further borne in mind how many lack the energy and zeal requisite for the continued prosecution of researches into animal structure and functions; and lastly, when we weio-h the incompetency of a great number, and the aver-