32 Notwithstanding, however, these various grounds of re- pugnance to anatomy have long since vanished, the pre- judices built upon them still continue to luxuriate amongst us. During the middle ages, they were carefully fostered by the fathers of the church, and in modern times the cant of refined feeling has become the cradle in which they are rocked. But it is in a more especial manner by the laws of the country, that the notions of infamy, punishment, and cruelty have been permanently associated with the prose- cution of anatomy. The vindictive legislator, taking ad- vantage of the common horror entertained against dissec- tion, in order to render the penalty of the law doubly ig- nominious, extended his brief authority beyond the depriv- ation of life alone, by finally ordering the body to be ana- tomized; thus proclaiming this operation to be the most condign of all punishments, and fitting only the vilest of beings ! The principle on which this law is founded, seems admirably consentaneous with the heathenish opinion, that it is a grievous evil for a body to be stripped of its flesh. And shall we, as Christians, not blush at the thought of perpetuating such a superstition ? But there is another circumstance which ou^ht not to be lost sight of here. This same law converts the members of an enlightened and liberal profession into mere execu- tioners ; introduces them before the public to accomplish the final prescriptions of justice,—to perform, in short, what the common hangman is unable to effect! How, we demand, under such circumstances, can the vulgar avoid blending their feelings towards the hangman and the ana-, toiiiist in one common sentiment of aversion ? This, in- deed, is actually the case; and hence dissection can never be thought of without creating an idea of its being the pe- nalty due to some villanous murderer, nor the operator himself, except as an inhuman Jack Ketch. Reason in vain lifts its voice against the association of crime with dissec- tion;—an association which, from its very commencement, has never ceased to injure the cause of science and huma-