67 tio7is actually performed lias considerably diminished. The pain and suffering of men, therefore, must also have been lessened ; a satisfactory and practical demonstration of the more general diffusion and advancement of medical knovi^- ledge. And this has been entirely effected by the increased zeal with which healthy and morbid anatomy have of late been cultivated. Shall we, then, arrest this beneficial pro- gress of science? Shall the benign and soothing aid which the healing art proffers to the meanest of earth's sufferers be withheld from them by prejudiced superiours? Yes ! if we are to listen to these feeling reasonerSt these feminine philosophers, the living must be sacrifeed; the dead spared. But there is another point that must not be overlooked ; that of considering dissection as a punishment.* We need scarcely reiterate the absurdity of this notion, which is coun- tenanced simply by a preposterous law, that cannot be too speedily abrogated. Its repeal, in fact, we consider as an indispensable preparatory step; because nothing is more natural than to regard as infamous and degrading, that which is inflicted on those alone who have perpetrated crimes of the deepest dye. Surely, every enlightened person must see the impolicy of retaining this part of our statute law, productive of no earthly good, and serving to cherish hurt- ful prejudices. Nothing, we apprehend, would ultimately be so effectual in removing the prepossessions against ana- tomy, as the complete dissevering of the union betwixt crime and dissection. Were men once persuaded, that there is nothing derogatory to humanity in the latter; that it is neither morally nor physically an evil; that it presents no- thing which any one need wish to shun or fear; then we should cease to hear complaints about the scarcity of sub- • This has actually been seriously urged against the measure now proposed for supplying the profession with subjects, and a pathetic tale got up about the injustice of " the last punishment inflicted on murderers'' being assigned to tire- poor and friendless, simply on account of their poverty and destitution I