46 jirovement,—they worship idols* of their own creation, and with a savage ignorance would fain extirpate all who do not worship with them. It is in this sense that a little knowledge becomes a dangerous thing, because it serves to clothe error in plausible colours. The malignant accusers o^ Socrates were sophists; the unrelenting persecutors of the immortal Galileo, were learned doctors of the Church 1 And so great was the devotion of many to Aristotle, that, after the invention of the telescope, they absolutely refused to look through it, because the discoveries which it revealed subverted the doctrines of their master. We need feel no surprise, then, at the opposition lately manifested to the anatomical bill by certain peers of the realm; we need not, in the least, be amazed at the prejudices and deficient inform- ation which they have displayed. History forbids that we should. Yet, we may lament that individuals, of so elevated a rank, should partake of such groundless and erroneous opinions; that under the specious plea of decency^ feeling, respect, and humanity, they should conceal a super- stitious regard for their own persons— a regard, of which, the magnanimity of even heathen philosophers might render them ashamed. Happily for the good of society at large, no great penetration is required to discover that neither hereditary wealth and dignity, nor yet the profession of divinit}', exempts men from the frailties, follies, and incon- sistencies common to our species. In immediate connexion with the supposed disgrace of being dissected, is the odium reflected on the dissector. It appears to be a prevalent notion, that an anatomist is either destitute of natural feeling, or become callous and blunted to the ordinary sensibilities of humanity. He is looked upon as one who reaps especial delight in that which is offensive to the common delicacy of other men. This false and ridiculous idea arises, in the first instance, from the * These idols Imvo been pointed out by Bacon.