54 of revelation, most expressly discountenances their indul- gence. The doctrines of Christianity are of an exalted and spiritual character, infinitely elevated above a low and gro- velling solicitude about the fragile and momentary tene- ment of the soul. It is to the latter, the nobler and imma- terial part of man, that they invariably point, not to the baser and perishable portion of his nature. But if we wil- fully and obstinately discard the means of remedying dis- ease, or obviating death, what do we, to use the language of divines, but tempt God ? It is impossible rational beings should look for a favourable issue to the mere blind and empirical exhibition of remedies by one who is profoundly ignorant of what he is doing; unless, indeed, they imagine that the finger of Providence will especially interfere to aid and assist man whenever his indolence or prejudices will not allow him to employ his utmost exertions. Here, however, as on other occasions, our duty, com- fort, and happiness are inseparably united. The perform- ance of that duty, we grant, may require some sacrifice; and where is the duty which does not ? But, let us ask, by whom is this sacrifice made? Not surely by the public; for we cannot consistently with truth affirm that violence to the artificial, sickly, and mawkish sentiments of any class of men, is a sacrifice. No ; this falls altogether on the medical man. It is he who must encounter all the disa- greeableness, the inconvenience, and even dangers, often highly imminent, which are inseparable from anatomical researches. These, from the decomposition to which the remains of organic beings are subject, must inevitably prove highly unpleasant to the investigator, whose life also is con- tinually endangered. The slightest scratch may be pro- ductive of the most fatal results; and whilst the practi- tioner is thus engaged in preparing himself to administer an antidote to the sufferings of his fellow men, he is per- petually exposed to the effects of the most deadly virus. And yet so little serious reflection is bestowed on these matters, that people commonly speak of anatomy as though