06 Avithcred limbs on straw, with aching heart, and head op- pressed by thought and care; to rise each morning to obey the orders of iron-hearted overseers, or unfeelinj; governors of poor-houses ? Why are the unfortunate legally doomed to this state ? Is it their fault that they are poor, and na- ked, and starving? And why, we ask, is not every deserv- ing indigent man clothed, and fed, and made to fare liber- ally every day ? Yes I a person may undergo every thing which we commonly look upon as degrading, whilst he is yet living, whilst he is still capable of feeling his condition ; he may endure the greatest penury, suffer ail the privations and misery, of want and destitution; be compelled to •choose between starvation and a workhouse, though he ■deem the latter an intolerable degradation. Yet, no sooner is life extinct in this same individual, than lo ! a thousand sympathising minds are ready to jjlead the came of his dead carcase ! His immortal part is gone; it has fled far be- yond the reach of human influence; and all that remains of what once constituted the man, is a little decomposing earth. This, however, may yet be rendered of important use to society at large by devoting it to scientific purposes. But, no I this is not to be permitted ; death seems to have consecrated that which was previously neglected and de- spised. Such is the nature of common feeling and philosophy on this subject. It would really seem as if people could not duly discriminate betwixt the value of the dead and the living; or that they cannot perceive how just, how reason- able, how kind, and how imperative a duty it is to alleviate, by every possible means, the pangs of disease, and to restore the mangled and broken limbs of their fellow creatures to soundness and utility. They do not appear capable of comprehending how important it is for a necessary opera- tion to be performed neatly, dextrously, and with as much ease as possible to the sufferer. They are not aware of the very interesting and apparently paradoxical fact, that al- though the number of surgeons who perform diflficult oper- ations has astonishingly increased, yet the number of opera-