85 generally desired. The greater part of what a youth is taught during his pupilage, he must necessarily receive upon the bare authority of his teacher ; and when in after life he finds the necessity of trying the doctrines which he has im- bibed by the touch-slone of experimental investigation, in what manner must he proceed ? Suppose that the struc- ture or functions of a part have been unfolded to him, and he subsequently wishes to make researches for himself upon these matters, can he, by the most protracted specu- lation, arrive at truth ? by discussing the most conflicting opinions, or by contenting himself with pasteboard and pa- per ? No ! he must handle and see the parts; he must make nature herself his guide, and not the opinions of men. He must, in short, use every faculty and sense with which God has endowed him for the purpose. We have, how- ever, already insisted at some length on this topic; and surely there is no one, how prejudiced soever he may in other respects be, who does not perceive the absolute ne- cessity of permitting every member of the profession to prosecute practical anatomy under his own roof. In this way he may employ his leisure moments, in unfolding the mysteries of the human structure, in studying and making himself acquainted with the machinery of life; in the same manner as the mechanist investigates the construction and laws of any other machine. Practical researches require to be conducted leisurely and with care; they cannot be profitably carried on where the attention is liable to be interrupted and distracted by a thousand circumstances. Hence, however much some may vaunt the advantages which arise from teaching anatomy on a large scale, it is pretty well known, that professors and teachers have private apartments, in which, without distrac- tion or annoyance, they can prosecute their labours. If no dissections, no anatomical researches are to be pursued, except in some large public institution, then, to be sure, pupils may be taught the elements of anatomy, but no one will enjoy the opportunity of becoming thoroughly versed M