27 when wc assert, that society does not present another class of individuals more numerous and respectable than that of the medical profession; and one, at the same time, against the general moral conduct of which so little reproach can be made. There is none, too, possessed of more varied and valuable information. In these respects, physic has no occasion to shrink even from a comparison with divinity. With temptations infinitely stronger and more diversified, practitioners in medicine do in nowise cede to the clergy, taken generally, in the morality of their conduct. It ought, moreover, to be borne in mind that the very vocation of the latter, by abstracting them from temptation, diminishes the merit attached to the rectitude of their walk. At the same time we need not hesitate to affirm that more benevolent, more truly kind and charitable individuals, than those which have adorned the profession of physic can nowhere be found. No description of men, whatever their calling or station in life, render such valuable services to the poor and needy sick ; none expose themselves to dangers equally numerous and great, without the remotest prospect of pe- cuniary remuneration. They work silently, yet not the less effectually. They make use of no ostentatious preconization of their good deeds, which are of unsolicited and spon- taneous origin; and whilst others are idly preaching the duty of charity, they exemplify it in their daily converse with man. No one is better acquainted with the distresses of poverty and sickness than the practitioner; and no one, therefore, can more fully and deeply sympathize with the afflicted. What a bright galaxy of medical philanthropists does history exhibit to us ! Of men who have conferred lasting and invaluable blessings on society; who have la- boured through evil and through good report, for the benefit of their fellow creatures 1* And do they not still labour in • By way of practical illustration we may mention one or two instances ; the limits of a letter forbid us to expatiate on the subject. Haller was an excellent poet, and general scholar; of immense erudition, and exalted vir-