33 nity. And yet we have senators, who are unwilHng to part with this precious relic of ignorance and barbarity! Nothing can be more groundless in itself, or more un- worthy of Christian legislators, than the principle which appears to pervade this portion of the statute law. No evil whatever is inflicted by dissection; the soul or immaterial part of man does not suffer thereby, if that were the infer- nal aim of the legislator; no corporeal pain is superadded to the criminal's sufferings, nor yet any real infamy or dis- grace. The enactment in no way prevents the commission of crime, since no one who is insensible to the fear of pu- nishment in this world, as well as in that which is to come, can possibly be deterred from it by reflecting on an opera- tion which is of no sort of consequence to him. In what instance did it ever happen, that murder was prevented by the thought of dissection ? To us, we confess, the idea is unspeakably ridiculous, for he who is totally lost to all the better feelings of humanity, cannot, surely, be very delicate on this point. If the law operate in any way, it is by un- justly heaping an additional cause of grief on the guiltless fii'iends, who cannot possess themselves of the body in order to bestow on it, what they deem, a decent and becoming interment. Shall we then continue to perpetuate a law so useless in its intended effects, and so obviously hurtful to the advancement of the healing art ? A law, which indi- rectly countenances Anti-Christian doctrines? Which assigns an importance and sanctity to a dead body that have no real existence ? A law which on the very face of it exhibits the impress of that monster, superstition ? For what punishment can dissection be to a man who has been hung by the neck till he is dead !* If none; what does the • We are here reminded of an anecdote which Cicero relates of Diogenes. This celebrated philosopher ordered his body to be cast forth without burial; upon which his friends answered,—" Vnlucribusne etferis? minime vera, inquit; sed baciUum propter me quo ain'gam ponitote. Qui poteris ? illi; wow enim senties. Quid igilur mihi fcrarum laniaius oberit nihil sentienti ? Friends, Thrown