69 and but for the injudicious interference of some people, might be so amongst us.* In the present state of things, however, we cannot expect that our hospitals should be so ably and so economically managed, or that they should be rendered so subservient to the common good, as similar institutions in France, where the grand and broad principles of utility are consulted, and not individual caprice. The affairs of hospitals, in our own country, being regulated by a very lieterogeneous body of men, styled governors, we cannot be surprised to find the majority pretty nearly as conversant with the proper object and nature of such institutions, as honest Ralph was " deep sighted in intelligences." The adoption of the plan practised in France would immediately set the matter under discussion at rest; but as that is not to be expected, it remains to b&seen what the wisdom of parlia- ment will effect. Any enactment, however, on this subject, should not merely legalize the giving up of unclaimed bodies for dissection, but render it an act imperatively obligatory on the governors or officers of public charities. Otherwise, if it be left to the option of the latter, as in Mr. Warburton's bill, any petty driveller might thwart the intent of the law. At the same time it ought to be specified that the medical person receiving a body should incur no expense of any kind except that attendant on its removal. No money, under any pretence whatever, should be allowed to be given to an officer or servant of a charitable institution on such occasions. Moreover, full provision ought to be made for • Many, for example, gravely tell us, that the measure in question would depopulate our public charities. Nothing can be more erroneous than such an assertion. "We again repeat, that the greatest prejudices against anatomy do not exist amongst the lower classes. Why are not the hospitals of France, Germany, and Italy deserted ? These countries have made the experiment, without any detriment to their institutions. The prepossessions of people were found to subside very quickly ; and Englishmen, surely, would evince as much good sense in this respect as their neighbours. Of this, indeed, we have, in some measure, already practical proof, in the feeling manifested on this subject by the soldiery. See note, page 4<5. K