29 is privately wrought in this respect; let our public hospitals, our dispensaries, and asylums, be consulted; let them speak. There are very few such institutions, in which those who have the care of the soul are not adequately remunerated for their trouble; whilst, unwersallij, those who cure the body bestow their time and ability gratuitously. And yet, time is infinitely more precious to the latter, than to the former. Again, no body of men in the community can boast of brighter ornaments to science than are to be found amongst the members of the profession of physic. Where shall we find more truly liberal and enlightened philosophers? In- dividuals, that have more effectually contributed to dissi- pate error and superstition, or more zealously promoted the general good of mankind ? Where, in fine, shall we meet with men who have united higher cultivation of mind with a more truly virtuous nobility of character ? It is well known that there are no students at Edinburgh more in- dustrious or better informed than the medical. There is nothing in their lucubrations which exerts a restricting or confining influence on mind; nothing which demoralizes or obtunds the finer feelings of humanity. The frame of man presents a wide field for observation, in which all may freely expatiate, and on that frame the meditations of the medical philosopher are fixed; not on a system of doctrines calculated to cramp the sinews, or repress the energies of intellect. Medicine imposes no dogmas, requires subscrip- tion to no tenets, except such as are obviously written in the grand volume of nature herself. We repeat, then, neither in mental nor moral attributes does the profession of physic yield to that of theology. Let no one imagine we are instituting an invidious comparison, with the intention of exalting the merits of one body in the community, by depreciating those of another. We have no aim but that of evincing the general worth, industry, and acquirements of medical practitioners. We wish to show that the study of anatomy does not exert any baneful E