I Gl pronounces the solemn truth, as each corpse is cTfeposited in the erave;—"earth to earth, ashes to ashes, and dust to dust." What a coil do men raise about a few ashes, a liandful of dust! Yes ! the very men who will not allow the industrious anatomist, intent on aiding suffering hu- manity, to touch a hair of a dead carcase, will unite and march to the field of battle, there to deal forth death-doing blows, to hew their fellows into pieces, and scatter the mangled corpses to the beasts of the forest and the fowls of the air I And should the fate of war grant them a short interim of repose after their bloody labours, they calmly proceed to the last sad offices plunder and burial! Yes ! even here they must be decent. Heaping together the gory mass of windowed carcases and shivered- limbs, they throw over them a little earth, as if to hide such foul unpitying deeds from heaven ; and then retire with some feeling sen- timent, no doubt, in their breasts;—" requiescant in pace." Rest, warriors, rest! And all this men have enacted, and will again enact, from mere motives of revenge, of petty jealousy, and insatiate cupidity, or with the view of esta- blishing uniformity of religious faith I But enough of these inconsistent cruelties of a refined sensibility; we are not sanguine enough to hope for their speedy correction, being too well aware, that though reason may be convinced, the virtue, the hojiesty, to act accordingly, is rarely found. Every reasonable person, we apprehend, must be suffi- ciently convinced of the absolute necessity of anatomical pursuits. Unless, indeed, life is to be at the disposal of ignorance and presumption, unless we are reckless of the pain superinduced on humanity already borne down with suffering, we must allow dissection to be altogether indis- pensable. It is more; it is pregnant with blessings of no inconsiderable magnitude to every member of the commu- nity. To promote and facilitate the study of anatomy ought, consequently, to form a primary object of civil po- licy. But the question arises, how shall this object be best attained i Here the utmost diversity of opinion prevails,