45 oi the dead ; these are tiie daily and nightly marauders that violate those sacred precincts which man is at snch Fruitless pains to secure; these are the reckless beings that outrage 07ir notions of decency and humanity ! Neither, then, is nature in reality, nor yet revelation in its declarations, so very chary of the dead. We have seen, too, that the opprobrium attached to dissection is entirely of a fictitious character, originating in pagan superstitions, and perpetuated by an absurd law, which is both useless in its professed aim, and injurious to the interests of humanity. We cannot, therefore, too urgently insist on the abrogation of this law, which has no other effect than that of keeping alive hurtful and unfounded prejudices. These, it is true, time alone can totally banish ; nevertheless, it is our duty to shorten that time as much as possible. In some classes of society, the dawn of sounder views already peers through the mist of antiquated superstitions. Among the lower orders, particularly, the prepossessions against anatomical investigations are on the decline. When the object for which post mortem examinations are instituted, is "properly stated and enforced, there is seldom much reluctance in yielding assent to their performance.* Indeed, generally speaking, it is not from such kind of people that the greatest opposition to the progress of science is usually experienced; but from the pretenders themselves to learning and philo- sophy ; from men early imbued with a peculiar set of notions and principles beyond the magic circle of which they never step; from men, in a word, who search for truth in the vain lore and sterile systems of the schools, in- stead of looking for it in nature herself Such men have ever thrown the greatest obstacles in the way of human ira- * It is staled, on the authority of a medical man who passed many years in the service, that were a military surgeon to neghtt examinatioji of a body after death, he would be considered by the soldiers as failing in his duty, and would xpeedily lose their confidence and respect, under the suspicion that the case had not been properly treated.—mc(\. Gazette, Vol. 4, p. 336. G