77 sion of others for these studies, no rational man, we con- ceive, can for a moment suppose that any restrictive mea- sures regarding them are at all called for. To impose legal restraints in addition to those which already exist so nu- merously, so inseparably, and of such important magni- tude, would indeed be folly. It were to pursue a line of conduct not simply impolitic, but flagrantly unjust to the interests of society at large. To impede our study of the human frame, to limit our acquaintance with its nature, is to deprive us of a knowledge of the best means of preserv- ing health, and subduing disease; it is to rob us, in short, of that which we are all most anxiously desirous of pos- sessing. Whilst, however, we contend for this liberal and enlarged principle of legislation, in reference to anatomical pursuits, whilst we maintain that it is of the utmost moment for the in- terests of our profession, that every legal member of it should be permitted to cultivate an acquaintance with anatomy in his own dwelling; let no one suppose we advocate the in- discriminate authorization of any man to teach this science to others. Every one, no doubt, ought to be allowed to teach those who may choose to follow his instructions ; it is a natural right, and one which is acted on in every other branch of learning. In this respect, there ought to be no limitation of teaching. But whether or not the public bo- dies, which at present regulate medical education, may think fit to acknowledge the validity of any person's teach- ing, is a totally distinct question, and one which has no es- sential connection with the measures to be adopted for pro- curing an adequate supply of subjects for dissection. From misapprehension, however, this has been made a prominent part of Mr. Warburton's bill. The public, no doubt, ought to be protected from the evils which the presumption of ignorant pretenders might bring upon them; and it be- hoves the managers of every university, college, or publjc school, to appoint competent teachers. But what ordeal the latter shall undergo to prove their competency, or how they J.