48 anatomy; on the contrary, he incurs considerable expense. His investigations, too, exact the utmost diligence and per- severance ; they are tedious and uninviting, and cannot be made without the sacrifice of personal comforts and feelings. The anatomist is endowed with precisely the same senses as other people are, and the effects of natural decay in orga- nized matter are not a whit the less perceptible by him than by any other person. It is not hasty and occasional mo- ments, but long hours of patient labour that he must devote to the study of this organic matter, however unpleasant and disagreeable it may be to his senses. Dissection has no exteriour or meritricious allurements to captivate attention, its value and attractions are wholly intrinsic; and nothing, we may be assured, except imperious necessity would lead all those who embrace the profession of physic to commence their career by attending to practical anatomy. A few in- dividuals, from natural curiosity, might be tempted to search into the structure of the human frame; they might derive satisfaction from unfolding the secrets of its curious and complicated mechanism ; yet, were it not for the immediate relation which this knowledge bears to health and disease, and the entire ignorance they must remain in respecting the latter, if unacquainted with the former, the great mass of practitioners would inevitably neglect this part of medical education. Indeed, without compulsion, how could we expect to find men poring day after day with unwearied assiduity over objects naturally uninviting to sense ? The zeal of the anatomist must surmount these inseparable dis- couragements, as well as the obstacles presented by popular prepossessions. In proportion as the object of his studies is high and momentous, the consideration of personal in- convenience vanishes. It is the vital importance, the paramount interest of his occupations that carry him for- ward. He has a station in life to hold, an office to fill, and he must prepare himself for the faithful and conscien- tious discharge of the duties which thence devolve upon him. For this he can properly qualify himself in the dis-