10 The vulgar prejudices which are transmitted like heredi- tary heir-looms, from one generation to another, become at length darling objects of solicitude which seem Fated ever to obstruct the good of man. In all ages, influenced by similar feelings, men have run counter to their own inter- ests. Unacquainted as the majority of mankind really are with the nature of science and philosophy, which they have been unwisely led to regard as consisting in abstruse and profitless speculations, calculated to amuse and occupy the vacant hours of the curious and erudite enquirer, it is very natural they should little dream that every step made in the advancement of knowledge brings with it a correspond- ing addition to their personal comfort and happiness. Yet, so it is; and from this ignorance,y^^/zV?^ generally prevails over reasonthe former always points to an immediate gratification, the latter to a future benefit. Some excuse, some plausible ground or other is never wanting to justify the indulgence of feeling. It matters little how irrational the source may be whence certain prejudices originate, whenever time has thrown over them its revered and hal- lowing mantle, they continue to be cherished were it for no other reason than because others have cherished them before. In this manner prejudice falsifies the voice of na- ture, and not unfrequently causes even the learned to pros- trate themselves at its shrine. How amply do we find these truths illustrated in the case before us. In investigating the animal structure, with the highly useful aim of understanding its derange- ments, philosophers, as already stated, were obliged to restrict their studies to beings of an inferior order. Owing to the peculiar tenets of a religious belief^ it vras gene- rally considered a heinous crime to treat, or, indeed, to look at the dead body of a fellow mortal, except with a kind of sacred awe. Condign and inevitable punishment awaited that person who, from levity, or even dire necessity, should be guilty of disregarding this popular superstition. The notions of the Greeks coincided almost entirely with those