62 and though the legislative assembly of the country lately took the matter into consideration, they left it as they found it. Nothing whatever has been effected. The Commons, it is true, possessed sufficient common sense to perceive that something was requisite for the interests of society, but an equal degree of penetration does not seem to have been the lot of many of the Lords, either spiritual or temporal. To be sure, Mr. Warburton's bill was complicated, inju- dicious, and, in many respects, impracticable; not to say directly prejudicial to the attainment of the ends at which it ostensibly aimed. It was not, however, on this account that some of their Lordships opposed the bill, such an op- position would have reflected credit upon them; but they objected, it seems, to the principle of the bill,—the very point in question, which all sensible and well-informed men admit. At this distance from the legislative arena, it is impos- sible to conjecture into what hands the counselling and drawing up of Mr. Warburton's measures fell; but we can with safety affirm that they are not calculated to accom- plish the end desired. This, we think, has been misappre- hended. In framing an enactment of the nature in question, surely the advice and suggestions of the most enlightened and in- telligent members of the profession ought to have been con- sulted. Then, instead of being constructed on narrow, erroneous, and partial views, it would have proceeded on those broad and liberal principles which the progress of knowledge, and the interests of society, so urgently demand. There are clauses, indeed, in Mr. Warburton's bill, from which one might conclude that the framer never thought it worth his while to ask the opinion of a medical man on the subject; clauses which the most superannuated amongst us must obviously have rejected. In fact, the ignorance displayed in this production, respecting the manner in which anato- mical pursuits are carried on, is so gross, that we really feel some surprise at witnessing it in any person of decent cdu-