50 would really seem so. The reverend gentlemen in lawn appear not to have forgotten the epithet applied to Hero- philus by Tertullian. To account for their conduct, we are compelled lo suppose, that they regard practical anatomy as a sort of impious mangling of the dead; a species of butchery which, possibly, with a pious horror, they wish again to see banished from our universities.'* We would * A very fine specimen of this sort of feeling has lately been displayed by a Divine of the Scotch Church. Mr. Pollok, in his operose production on the " Course of Time," speaking of the resurrection at the last day, thus in- troduces the anatomist:— " And as the anatotnist, with all bis hand Of rude disciples, o'er the subject hung, And impoVlely (!) heived his way, through bones And muscles of the sacred human form, Exposing harharously to wanton gaze. The mysteries of nature, joint embraced His kindred joint, the wounded flesh grew up, And suddenly the injured man awoke. Among their hands, and stood array'd complete In immortality—forgiving scarce The iyisult offered to his clay in death." The preceding is one only of the numerous instances of wretched taste and ponderose diction with which this admired (!!!) writer abounds. But the taste of the multitude consists in having no taste at all. There never was, we will venture to affirm, a more complete example of the Bathos in writing than the one now cited. " The anatomist with his rude band impolitely hewing his way through bones and muscles :" aye! bones and muscles of the sacred human form ! Sic labor, hoc opus est! But to worms and other vermin it is quite a delightful and recreating amusement to find their way through these parts, sacred as they are in the poet's eye. And, then, to expose barbarously to wan- ton gaze the mysteries of nature ! Horror of horrors ! Execrable wretches ! What 1 strip nature naked, and expose her to the wanton gaze of a rude band of dissectors? Proh pudorem ! And again; only think, the poor injured man, after the resurrection, scarcely can forgive the insult offered to his clay in death ! What an elevated and sublime idea ! How truly Christian like ! ! Now, suppose he had found a thousand revelling worms at work ; or a huge fish tearing off a limb ; or a wild beast picking a bone ;—would he have for- given these creatures ? And, after all, we dare say the numerous readers of this Scotch Milton (! ! !) find a comfortable strengthening of their prejudices in perusing this pitiable nonsense ; for pitiable, indeed it is, when we recollect the concise and animated language of Paul. Yet, be it remembered, this