34 law more than teach the inviolable nature of a dead carcase i —that this said carcase is •violated by handling—that the soul is hurt by the indignity offered to the body—that it must NA'ander some (Heaven knows how many) years on the banks of the infernal river, or some such like nonsense ? This is absolutely what the law encourages; it is its chief tendency and effect. In short, it has been adopted from the Romans, with whose religious notions it perfectly co- incides. They, for reasons already stated, considered it the greatest misfortune to be deprived of funeral rites. Hence, 43y way punishinent, the bodies of executed criminals were not buried, but exposed before the prison, and afterwards dragged with a hook, and thrown into the Tiber. Do not we hang and expose criminals, and then refuse them burial ? And have we not imitated these heathens in attaching the bo- dies of capital offenders to a cross and then leaving them to birds of prey ?* And do we not follow their example in re- fusint; decent burial to the self-murderer ? Like the A theni- ans of old, have we not permitted dead bodies to be seized by a creditor ? And this, too, in spite of the reverential feelings which, in common with the Athenians, we share forthedead? forth ! whal, to T)e devoured hy birds and ieasts 9 Diog. O dear, no I place a stick near me that I may drive them away. Friends. But how can you 9 you will not perceive them. Diog. Then what does it matter if they tear me in pieces since I shall not perceive it!" Nothing surely can more clearly demonstrate that the fear of dissection does not operate in the way of deterring men from murder than the case of Burke and Hare, who actually supplied, by their murders, a dissecting room, to which they knew they themselves must be cairied, if detected. * Nec furtura feci neque fugi, si mihi dicit Servtis : habes pretium ; loris non ureris, aio, Non hominem occidi: nonpasees in cruce corvos. Horat. Epist. lib. I. Ep. 16, v. i6. Suppose a slave should say, I never steal, I never ran away—" nor do you fetl The flagrant lash"—no human blood I shed— " Nor on the cross the ravening crows have fed,"— Fkakcis.