53 drink at a pure fountain of enjoyment. Does not the theo- logian himself justify the appropriation of God's creatures to the good of man ? But wherefore do we not act on these principles in reference to the case before us ? Every man in peril seeks all possible means of escape; negligence, indeed, would here become criminal. Now existence is instinctively dear to us all; yet to render that existence tolerable it must be coupled with health. But health is liable to derangement from a thousand circumstances, many of which are beyond the reach of human control. Every organic being, vegetable or animal, is naturally sub- ject to disease; to the casual interruption of its functions, and which, unless removed, must inevitably terminate in death. This event every sane person considers it a duty to obviate by all possible means which he can justly command. But these means can be obtained only by a profound study of the structure and laws of the animal frame. No man would send his watch to be repaired by a person entirely ignorant of its machinery; and few reflecting people, we imagine, would place much confidence in the medical skill of an individual utterly unacquainted with the nature and construction of the animal body. Since, then, the machine of life is subject to derangements, and since it is both our duty and interest to remove these derangements; and since, lastly, this cannot properly be accomplished except we render ourselves as thoroughly masters as possible of the construction and actions of this machine, there can be no question as to the course which ought to be pursued. It is indeed sufficiently obvious, we apprehend, that the assidu- ous study of our own frame does not simply conduce to personal comfort and ease, but that it is a moral obligatioii which we cannot evade with impunity. We enjoy, more- over, ample means of arriving at the information we seek without inflicting the slightest pain or injury on any one. The sole obstacle in our way is the existence of certain feelings and prejudices which, we have before shown, are of a vain, unbecoming, and pagan nature. The entire tenour u