65 mains to have his feelings injured. And if, on the other hand, the law did principally, ifnot entirely, affect the poor and labouring classes, it ought at the same time to be borne in mind, that they are precisely the individuals who would profit most by the enactment. From the nature of their occupations, and the circumstances in which they live, they are infinitely more liable to serious accidents and diseases; they are more frequently the subjects of operations, and must, therefore, be more greatly benefited by a general diffusion of anatomical and medical knowledge. The rich, we should remember, can at all times command the atten- dance of a skilful physician or surgeon ; but the poor have not the means of doing this. They must resign themselves into the hands of the nearest practitioner, however ignorant or incapable of rendering the requisite assistance. The lower orders, therefore, it is clear, would enjoy a much higher degree of advantage from the better education of medical men, than the upper ranks of society. If, then,, they contributed more largely than the latter to the general diffusion and improvement of medical and surgical skill, by affording a greater number of subjects for anatomical pur- poses, where, we demand, can be the injustice of this ? But why do not the squeamish gentlemen who are so very tender of the 'welfare of others in this matter pursue their feeling cant to its legitimate extent ? Why do they not protest against the poor and destitute being compelled to enter a parish workhouse ? The respectable and wealthy merchant, without any want of foresight, without commit- ting any act of imprudence, may be suddenly reduced from affluence to beggary. Must he, too, live on parish bounty? Why do they not exclaim against the hardship and cruelty of the case ? Why do they suffer those who have known " The luscious sweets of plenty ; every niglit Have slept with soft content about their head, And never waked but to a joyful morning," now to languish on u scanty pittance; to stretch their