A slight perusal of past records will suffice to convince us that improvements in medicine and surgery have strictly kept pace with the progress of anatomy ; and that in pro- portion as knowledge generally has become more diffused, the latter has ever formed an object of increasing attention and cultivation. Wherever circumstances have proved fa- vourable to the prosecution of anatomical pursuits, there crude empiricism has yielded to a more rational and bene- ficial mode pf treating disease: in the same ratio, conse- quently, the sufferings of mankind have been diminished. The ancient Egyptians neither understood nor cultivated anatomical science, and accordingly we find both their medical doctrines and practices abounding in the most ri- diculous and incredible absurdities. It has, indeed, been imagined that the art of embalming must in some measure have contributed to promote a knowledge of anatomy ; but the mode in which that operation was performed, and the conduct of the bystanders towards the person who made the incision into the abdomen, at once indicate both the prejudices of the people, and the slender degree of infor- mation obtainable from this source. The anatomical know- ledge of the Greeks likewise was exceedingly partial and su- perficial. Some slight zootomicai information might, it is true, be afforded, by inspecting the viscera of animals offered up on the altars consecrated to the religion of that country; but this, in the hands of its priests, was converted to no use- ful purpose. The medical philosophers were the first to perceive the advantages which resulted from an acquaint- ance with anatomy; they confined their researches, how- ever, to animals alone. To this, indeed, during a long: series of years, they were compelled by the popular super- stitions of the times. Erroneous and delusive notions were thus introduced respecting the structure of the human body; and a nomenclature, also, at the same time adopted, alto- gether incorrect and inappropriate. It is easy to imagine how injuriously this operated upon the medical theories of the day; and, indeed, on those also, of later times.