63 cation. The bill, it is true, has universally encountered the disapprobation of the intelligent part of the profession, for the very plain and cogent reason, that it is not calculated to facilitate the cultivation of anatomy ; and, therefore, the progress of medical science, and the welfare of society. On the other hand, it tends obviously to obstruct practical anatomy; and is clearly inadequate to prevent the traffic in dead bodies. The positive enactments are not simply vicious, but on some important points there are manifest deficiencies. The three grand ends to be obtained are—Istly, The abo- lition of all secret traffic in dead bodies ; 2dly, The preven- tion of exhumation ; 3dly, The protection and encourage- ment of anatomical pursuits. The measures adopted ought to be efficient in securing the attainment of each of these ends; individual, as well as public, interest exacts these conditions. We are well aware that, properly speaking, to obtain the third end now mentioned, something more than a mere supply of subjects is requisite; but since this is all that can be legally or nominally effected, the whole difficulty resolves itself into that of obtaining an ample number of subjects without the intervention of resurrectionists, or others se- cretly dealing in dead bodies. Now dissection, it must be granted, affects the dead alone, yet all the clamour which is raised against it originates from certain feelings and pre- judices of the living. That these feelings and prejudices are in themselves idle and superstitious we have already shown. But in order to accomplish what is here desired without calling the latter at all into play, it has been pro- posed to consign to dissection such as have no survivors, whose feelings would be excited on the occasion. * Take,' it has been said, ' those who, after living at the public ex- pense, must also be buried by the public. Let all unclaimed bodies, without exception, be given up for anatomical pur- poses.' Even allowing people to retain their prepossessions, still, considering that subjects isoill, and in some way or