78 shall be selected, is of no consequence here; we have no- thing to do with the regulation of medical schools ; it is T)ot our object to determine how many, or how few there shall be; or in what manner the education of professional men may be best conducted; all these points remain for future consideration. Much reformation in the present system of medical education might, no doubt, be effected ; but that is a subject totally distinct from the one at present occupying our attention ; it involves questions and interests of a nature altogether different from those relating to anatomical pur- suits. Our present object is the removal of the prejudices against dissection ; the abolition of the traffic in dead bodies by the resurrectionist; and finally, the procuring of an ade- quate supply of subjects, in the least objectionable manner. This is every thing which a bill to facilitate the cultivation of anatomy has to embrace; the institution of schools is to- tally foreign to the purpose, and cannot be entered upon without remodelling the present system of medical education. For this reason, we cannot but feel some surprise at the protest against Mr. Warburton's bill, lately put forth by the Professor of Anatomy at Edinburgh. That the bill is ob- jectionable, we grant; but the grounds on which our objec- tions rest differ very materially from those stated in the memorial to which we allude. The tendency of this pro- duction, it has been insinuated, is but too obvious: it betrays too much anxiety about the emoluments of an indi- vidual teacher, and too little ardour in the cause of science generally. Whether or not the document was prompted by self-aggrandizing views and interests, we cannot pretend to determine; yet, at the same time, we must honestly con- fess, that it seems to savour of a spirit of monopoly, than which nothing is more to be deprecated in science. The professor who at present fills the anatomical chair, is too wealthy, we are assured, to think of increasing his income, by rendering the college an exclusive place for dissection. According to the protest, however, he wishes to restrict the number of dissecting rooms in Edinburgh to three at most.