41 new vegetative process ? If men thought the soul incapable of entering the blissful mansions bereft of its former tene- ment, there v^^ould be some plausible ground for their pre- tended anxiety about the dead. But since the volume of revelation itself teaches us to take little thought or care about this same body, even whilst living; and since we are informed from the like source, that it is of earthy and shall return to earth, what must we think of the frivolous solici- tude which men evince for its final disposal in this" world.* But further; it should be remembered that operations are frequently requisite when the patient is not in a state to use his own judgment; yet no one feels so deeply for him as to object to to their performance. What, however, still more strongly illustrates the nature of this boasted kindness and delicacy of feeling, is the manner in which the last requests * When Lysimachus threatened Theodorus, of Cyrena, with the cross; the magnanimous philosopheT answered, " threaten your purpled attendants with tortures, Theodorus cares not whether he rot below or above ground." Anaxarchus is said to have made a similar answer to Alexander on a like oc- casion. When Crito, a little before Socrates swallowed the fatal draught, inquired of him how he wished his body to be disposed of after death, So- crates chided him for his anxiety about a lifeless corpse, and turning to the rest of his friends, continued, Crito may dispose of my body as he chooses, but let him not mourn over it as if it were Socrates ! Cicero has ably exposed the folly of mankind in reverencing dead bodies. Sentiments, these, the fruit merely of an admirable philosophy : " Nam efficit hoc philosophia; medetur animis; inanes solicitudines detrahit; cupiditatibus liberat; ■pellit timo- res." Philosophy, however, like religion, to be productive of benefit, must be sown in a suitable soil, for the same elegant writer continues, " Sed haec ejus vis non idem potest apud omnes; turn valet multum, cum est idoneam com- plexa naturam." And Christians, with their elevated hopes and expectations, after reading such examples of magnanimity in heathens, do not blush ? Again; when the same philosopher cites the following lines as highly jejune : Neque sepulchrum quo recipiat habeat, portum corporis j Ubi remissa vita humana, corpus requiescat malis; and then observes, " Vides quanto hie in errore versetur : portum esse cor- poris et requiescere in sepulchro putat mortuura. Magna culpa Pelopis : qui non erudierit filium, nec docuerit, quatenus essel quidque curandum"—ought it not to incite us to teach our children at least more sane notions respecting the REST of the dead ? I