91 into the woods; and those who die of dropsy, into the water. The latter is, in reality, the most common mode of disposing of the dead in India. For, although the Hin- doos are said to hum their dead, combustion is, in truth, only half effected, " the dead^ half roasted over a scanty fire^^ being thrown into the waters of the sacred river. (Heber's Journal, Vol. I., p. 280, and Vol. III., p. 225.) At Benares, where fuel is scarce, the bodies of the dead are at once cast into the Ganges without any burning whatever in most cases. The Parsees (Bombay) expose the corpse to vultures in an open building constructed for the purpose. On the other hand, the Egyptians, as every one knows, embalmed their dead; and many of the Persians imitated this practice, in some measure, by smearing the body over with wax, previous to burial. Thus, some people burn their dead ; others give them to the beasts of the forest, or the monsters of the deep ; and others, again, like ourselves, to animals of a smaller, but not less predatory description. Nature, in fact, compels us, in some way or other, to get rid of the dead ; and Seneca justly conceives, we imagine, that burial arose from necessity^ rather than from any na- tural instinct. Hence we find Abraham burying Sarah *' out of his sight" in a cave of the field which he purchased of Ephron. This was the simplest and readiest of all modes of getting quit of the corpse. The Jews, however, seem to liave adopted, indiscriminately, the practice of other nations, according as they thought proper. Joseph, for example, commanded his servants, the physicians, to embalm his fa- ther, and after this process had been performed in the cus- tomary way, the body was deposited in the cave previously mentioned. Sometimes, the Jews burnt their dead; on other occasions, they simply made great burnings of per- fumes and other odoriferous substances, whilst the bodies themselves were buried. But of all customs, that of interring the dead in the midst of populous towns, is the most filthy and abominable. It is a practice which directly tends to counteract the very end