70 the transfer of bodies from one place to another ; a permit being granted for this purpose without any charge except that of registry. In this manner, by repealing that part of our present statute law which consigns the bodies of murderers to dis- section, and by enacting regulations of the preceding de- scription, the interests, both of the profession and the public would be effectually secured. Many, we observe, are ex- ceedingly vociferous and urgent in demanding the most condign punishment against the exhumers of bodies as well as against the receivers of the latter. But we have no he- sitation in affirming, that a law of the nature before men- tioned, would more certainly and promptly abolish the prac- tice of exhumation than all the pains and penalties which the spirit of the most vindictive legislator could invent. Aud the reason is sufficiently obvious; there would be no purchasers for the commodity of the resurrectionist, and consequently all inducement to pursue his vocation would at once cease. In every case, there is always some motive, some incentive for action ; and in the present, it is gain. When this becomes impracticable, the resurrectionist will cease to exist, and not till then. No man that lives by his wits will pursue an unprofitable calling. Where there is no temptation to crime it is useless to enact measures against its perpetration. Hence we do not perceive the slightest necessity for altering the law as it now stands on this sub- ject ; it will prove more than sufficient for the purposes at which it aims; indeed, it is difficult to imagine what law could be required under the supposed circumstances. Again, since the indifference of men to the last solemn requests of their friends renders such a measure necessary, if any person, either verbally, in the presence of compe- tent witnesses, or by written deed and testament, desire that after death his body shall be given to any surgeon or sur- geons, for the purposes to which they may think fit to apply it, compliance with this desire ought to be legally enforced. After our previous observations on this point, no additional