83 neither can he acquire anatomy properly by inspecting what others have dissected. He must go through the oper- ation itself, carefully, slowly, and repeatedly, with his own hands; this is the sure mode of completely mastering his subject, though not the most rapid. The scalpel cannot be used with rapidity by a mere student, nor indeed by any one advantageously; and after the parts have been exposed by the knife, they must be studied. And considering that a pupil can only devote a certain number of hours daily to dissection, he cannot possibly have many spare moments to inspect the labours of others. If there be two or three students dissecting parts similar to those on which he is occupied, an occasional attention to their progress is all that can be profitable to him; for if he aim at more he neglects his own work, acquires probably a confused and superficial notion of several parts, but a correct and precise idea of none. Every advantage, therefore, which a multi- plicity of subjects may seem capable of yielding, can be ob- tained where there are three or four dissecting tables, as effectually as if there were fifteen or twenty. In the former case, too, there is not one-tenth part of the distraction which prevails in the latter, arising from garrulity, idleness and folly, which of themselves would counterbalance the ad- vantages before mentioned, even supposing them to exist. And, then, as to surgical operations, they certainly may be performed as often in a small dissecting room as in a large one; for since parts that have been operated on become utterly useless to the dissector, no student would willingly give up his portion of a subject for surgical purposes. Hence, as most people are aware, bodies are procured expressly for this end; and, of course, this can be done quite as frequently in a small, as in a large establishment. Parts that have been dissected cannot be appropriated to the performance of operations; and those on which operations have been performed are useless for dissection; so that in regard to surgical operations it would make little difference whether the student were occupied in a room where there was one or a dozen bodies undergoing dissection.