19 Notwitlistanding these various adverse circumstances, it was impossible, as men became more enlightened, to pre- vent researches into the human body. The church itself, in fact, seems to have perceived and acknowledged its error; for, about the year 1376, the faculty of Montpellier* re- ceived permission from the see of Rome, io practise human dissections; and a similar favour was subsequently granted to the university at Tiibingen.f Men, however, were still very slow in reconciling themselves to the lawfulness of ana- tomy ; for even so late as the sixteenth century, Charles V. had a consultation of divines at Salamanca to know whether in good conscience, a human body might be dissected for the sake of comprehending its structure! Such were the first steps made towards the restoration of anatomical science. Paracelsus had already loudly impeached the authority of Galen in matters of theoretic medicine, when Vesalius, in 154)3, completed the total overthrow of Galenical despotism in respect to anatomy. Eustachius, Columbus, and Falop- pia, are bright names in the history of this science; and although France and Germany can boast of some excellent anatomists in these days; yet, from time the of Vesalius to that of the immortal Harvey, Italy maintained the first rank. Harvey had studied under the celebrated Fabricius ab Aquapendente; and though he began to teach the doctrine of the circulation of the blood in 1619, yet he did not ven- ture to publish it until after twenty-five years of experiments and dissections. This great discovery aroused the attention of his countrymen to anatomical pursuits, and from this period to that of the illustrious Frenchman, Winslow,:]: • Tlie University hero was established in 1150, A.D. ; the medical facultv in 12-20. ^ f Established A.D. 1475. \ A.D. 1732. Prior to his time, for example, flourished in Britain, Highmore, Glisson, Warthon, Willis, Lower, Collins, Ridley, Cowper, Douglas, Chcselden, Monro, primus. In Holland,—amongst others, Ruyseh, De Graaf, Diemerbrock, Swammerdam, Leeuwenhoek, Bidloo, Verheyen.