52 selves and the character of God who made us. This will be the inevitable result of discountenancing anatomical pur- suits. Our capital, like ancient Rome, must then one day become a mere emporium of empiricism. It is not a little singular that the reverend members of the bench, who, from the elevated nature of the doctrines which they profess, ought to be the last either to feel or express anxiety about their earthly remains, should be precisely those who betray the greatest fear of being molested after death; that they should be amongst the foremost to cherish vulgar prejudices, and to preach up the heathenish notion of pro- fanity attached to disturbing the repose of the dead; and that from such vain and idle considerations they should come for- ward as the most obstinate opposers of one of the most in- structive, edifying, and indispensable branches of human knowledge. How different were the sentiments and feelings of the early Christians in this respect! So little, indeed, were they careful about the body, that they often erred in theother extreme by voluntarily seeking mai'tyrdom. They thought very lightly of the indignity suffered from being devoured by wild beasts; nor, indeed, did they seem at all troubled at the idea of any indignant treatment which their bodies might undergo after death. We never find them giving pusillanimous directions as to the disposal of their remains ; nor yet expressing a distrustful fear that their repose might possibly be disturbed. But so great is modern supersti- tion, so high the value set upon that, which the early Chris- tians with cheerfulness threw away, that people are actually blind to their own interests and welfare. Man is nourished and fed by the liberal hand of nature; whatever he finds palatable in the animal or vegetable king- dom, he does not hesitate to convert it to his-own use. He walks abroad and expatiates on the works of creation; to close his eyes on, or turn from examining the harmonious dispo- sition and beauty of the universe, would argue something worse than senseless apathy. None but the cynic, or he whose moral appetite is morbidly depraved, would ever refuse to