72 should be presented to the medical gentleman, and consi- dered as authorizing him to receive such body or bodies, and on its or their reception, he in turn ought to notify to the nearest magistrate, or bench of magistrates, his having possession of the body or bodies specified. In this manner, the constituted authorities would always be acquainted with the places in which dissections were carried on, and possess a sufficient check upon all transactions relating to dead bodies. With respect to the penalties that ought to be at- tached to the infringement of any of these regulations, as we look upon them in a secondary point of view alone, we shall leave them for the determination of others. By these few simple enactments, then, we conceive that every thing which is desirable regarding anatomy would be abundantly obtained. There is no necessity for the crea- tion of any new authorities in the state; none for the ex- istence of commissioners empowered to grant and revoke licenses for teaching anatomy; or in other words for the nomination of a set of men to decide upon matters of which they have no correct knowledge. Mr. Warburton's bill is a sufficient proof of this. In that complicated, prolix, and yet defective production, the wants both of the profession and the public have been entirely misapprehended. The bill is not calculated to facilitate and promote the cultiva- tion of anatomy, but to obstruct and prevent it; it is a bill for the better punishing of resurrectiojiists, and the legal extortion of money from those "doho study or teach anatomy. Commissioners for the licensing of schools in troth I We repeat, the framers of that bill were ignorant of the real nature of the evil which they attempted to remedy. There is no call whatever for the establishment of this new power, whose authority must manifestly interfere with that of the universities and colleges already existing; and very soon most effectually impede the progress of medical science. Surely people are singularly forgetful, for ignorant they cannot altogether be, of the nature of education and study jn general. To some, it is true, we may possibly be about