22 knoLty point was ultimately settled by examining the body of a swine ! We cease to wonder, when we vencct on these circumstances, at the miserable state of niedical and surgical science in those days. Nothing, in fact, was so much dreaded by the surgeon as the performance of operations: these, consequently, fell to the lot of illiterate and strolling quacks. Life was thus placed in the hands of a number of unskilful and reckless fellows, who wandered from one town and vil- lage to another, committing the result of their operations to the care of Providence. No improvement could be made in surgery, without a corresponding one had previously been elFected in a knowledge of the human frame. Every step advanced by the surgical practitioner, requires the aid of anatomy; but being unacquainted with this, whenever dis- ease resisted his salves and plasters, the store of which, in former days, was infinite, the patient was resigned to his fate: the removal of diseased parts by the knife was never dreamt of. It is worthy of remark, that surgery seems to have made very considerable progress in Egypt at one period ; since bass-reliefs, representing limbs amputated with instruments pretty similar to those now in use, are still to be seen, ac- cording to Larrey, on the walls and ceilings of the temples at Thebes. The perfection of this branch of medical science in Egypt, most undoubtedly sprung from the circumstances already pointed out.* But after the fall of the Alexandrian school, and during the universal darkness which subse- quently reigned, surgery again declined. And greatly as the practice of medicine suffered from an ignorant and bigoted priesthood in the middle ages, surgery was treated still worse at their hands. The council of Tours, in 1163, denounced it as a profession unjit for priests and men of learning! In the same century, it was banishedfrom the * It is not a little interesting to observe, that within the last year or two, Mahmoud Ali has re-established the Medical School in Alexandria.