75 Anatomical discoveries arc the result of long and patient labour. And, we beg to ask, did the immortal Hunter content himself with the dissections of his pupilage ? Was his splendid museum filled with specimens of animal struc- ture that had been prepared during the two or three first years which he devoted to the study of his profession ? Did he acquire his anatomical knowledge by the inspection of plates and diagrams? Were his discoveries and im- provements in the healing art effected simply by meditation in the closet ? In brief, is it rational to suppose that science of any kind can be advanced by those who are just enter- ing on its study? And how is it possible for physic and surgery to be duly improved, so as to yield all that relief to suffering humanity, of which they are capable, so long as ninety-nine members out of a hundred in the profession, are prevented from duly prosecuting their studies ? And this must still continue to be the case, unless every legal member of the healing art can have opportunities of carry- ing on practical anatomy under his own roof. It was thus that Hunter passed his leisure moments at his own private establishment in the country. Should a practitioner wish to refresh his memory, to prosecute some point of practical inquiry, or should he be desirous of devoting his spare mo- ments to the further improvement of anatomical knowledge, must he run to and fro, to the ends of the world, must he resort to some metropolitan school for these purposes ? A notion so utterly absurd cannot for a moment be enter- tained. The avocations of a medical man are such that he cannot even assign any stated periods to his researches, and, consequently, he ought to possess the power of pursuing them at his own dwelling whenever opportunity may offer. Practical investigations into the nature of the animal frame, and of the laws by which it is governed, constitute the proper business of his life, and to which he ought continually to direct his thoughts and attention. In no other way can he expect to obtain a thorough knowledge of the art which he professes, or to render valuable services to his fellow crca-