36 fully apprized of the nature of anatomical pursuits. This is the sole method of undeceiving the credulous as to the meaning commonly attached to the appalling terms dissec- tion and anatomizing. There is here nothing to conceal from general knowledge; nothing to withhold from the eye of public scrutiny. The anatomist practises no arts of which he is ashamed; he carries on no system of abuse or deceit, from the examination of which he shrinks. He has no sinister motives in view, no secret and unworthy aim to compass ; he does not seek in any way to enrich himself by injuring others. The end of his labours and researches, is the ease and comfort of his suffering fellow-creatures; and the means he employs for this purpose, are not less honoui- able than necessary. It cannot, surely, be deemed a crime, to study any por- tion of the works of creation; much less, to institute a mi- nute examination of the great masterpiece of them all. Is it not rather our bounden duty, and ought it not to be an interesting occupation ? Is there any other mode of ad- vancing knowledge, except by practically investigating the objects of creation ? Is there any other philosophy but that which nature unfolds to us ? Can we expect to be taught that, about which we make no inquiries, no investigations? What, then, is dissection ? It is an inquiry into the nature of the animal frame; it is an investigation of the various parts, organs, or instruments, of which it is composed; it is a search into their mutual connexions, relations, and de- pendencies, in order to ascertain the various laws and proper- ties of the admirable machine of life. And shall we freely examine, with these views, every creature, from the crawling worm, up to the majestic lord of the forest, and yet exclude " the noblest work of God ?" Shall man, " the proper study of mankind," be neglected ? Is his frame alone un- worthy of study and admiration ? Is there something pol- luting, something unnatural; is there some moral tui-pitude in this study? In what does the stain affixed to dissection consist ? In nothing under the sun, but superstition, pre-