15 DUPLICITY. main arterial trunks. The heart consists of two left hearts united; there are no pulmonary hearts. Each ventricle gives off an aorta which crosses to the opposite side, so that the heart on the left side supplied the right inferior extremities, and that on the right the left. The carotids, two in number, are given off together from the arch of the right aorta. The trachea is single. The lungs are very small and imperfect; they probably consist of a single pair. The vessels of the right heart are injected. The palate is deeply cleft. Hunterian. 70. A similar foetal Pig with the skull and spinal canals laid open to show the brain and cords. The adjacent lateral tracts terminate by joining each other, the outer ones alone pass to the brain. Hunterian. 71. A similar but anencephalous foetal Pig. The base of the skull is exposed; the cerebral nerves are, however, quite distinct at their point of exit from the skull. Hunterian. 72. A foetal Mole with dichotomy of the whole spinal column. Hunterian. 73. A foetal Puppy with dichotomy of the spinal column. The median pair of anterior extremities are represented only by a tubercle. It is probable that the dichotomy does not extend into the upper part of the cervical region. Hunterian. 74s. A foetal Kitten with dichotomy of the axis and four complete anterior extremities. Hunterian. 75. A similar Kitten. Hunterian. 76. The skeleton of a similar Kitten, in which the occiput is slightly cleft, so that there are two exoccipitals. This specimen belongs strictly to the following subdivision, Schizocotis; it is probable, however, that some of the preceding specimens are similarly affected. It has therefore been thought expedient to separate those forms only as Schizocotis in which the cleft condition of the skull is apparent externally. These divisions are not separated by any distinct lines of demarcation and are purely artificial. The manner in which the median ribs are de- pressed and united in animals affected with dichotomy is well seen in this preparation. Presented by J. Burton, Esq.