32 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXES. " I have the authority of Lieut.-General Wood for stating that the trunk and neck measure 11 inches, and the longest limb 13 inches. " The attachment of the neck of the parasite admits of a semi- rotatory motion, and Ake shows that his brother's arms can be moved freely. The thighs and legs remain stiffly bent, the femora being ankylosed to the innominate bones and tibia. The genital organs are too perfect in the model, since no vestige of testes and very little scrotum can be seen in the original. The penis is, how- ever, large in proportion, with the glans about half covered by the prepuce; it was subject to occasional erections. The kidneys seem to perform their function perfectly; the anus is wanting. Ake is now about 4 feet 10 inches high, of feeble frame and sickly ap- pearance. Except in the incumbrance above described, he is in all respects perfectly formed. Ake's respiration is commonly labo- rious ; to relieve it, he frequently supports the parasite with his hands; his pulse is commonly quick and small. Mr. Gomez felt the pulsation of the carotids in the neck of the parasite di- stinctly ; he also felt feeble pulsation at the wrists." The condition of Ake, as far as can be judged from the model, seems precisely the same as that of the Kittens, Nos. 124 to 128. Presented by H. L. Thomas, Esq., 1822. b. Impaction between the facial arches. In such cases the palate is most frequently the seat of impac- tion, and the parasite is modified excessively. 131. The injected head of a Human foetus with a large lobulated vascular tumour, the remains of a second foetus, growing from the median fissure of the palate, which has been kept open by it. The tumour projects from the mouth, which it dilates considerably. It is adherent to the right commissure of the lips, and entirely invested the superior maxillary bone of the foetus, which has been removed and is seen in No. 133. The lobulated tumour presents a widely extended mouth in front. A piece of purple glass rod is placed in its cavity, extending be- tween the commissures of its hps. A long tongue-shaped projec- tion is seen in the mouth-cavity; but it is covered with lanugo, so that it does not probably represent the tongue. The lips and alveoli are very distinct; they are divided into two lateral por- tions by large lobules of fatty tumour. A single nostril, marked by a blue glass rod, appears above the left half of the upper lip ;