VARIATION. 73 articular surfaces and general form of the bone, although it has been unfortunately lost. 30-1. The skeleton of the right manus of a Horse, with an additional largely developed digit intercalated between the inner splint-bone and middle toe. The second row of carpal bones is fortunately preserved, and exhibits an additional bone, probably an os magnum. A great deal of irregularly ossified tissue surrounds both digits. The horse was shod on both toes. Presented by Lawson Tait, Esq., 1872. 305. The skeleton of the right manus and pes of a half-grown Cat. The manus possesses seven digits; there are also two trapezoid bones in the carpus, and the proximal ex- tremity of the metacarpal bone of an eighth digit is apparent. The pes has five digits. In the manus the digits are arranged in the following order, beginning from the inner side of the hand:—A preternaturally slender thumb and a second digit (index), having its ungual and median phalanges like those of a left digit, are articulated with the trapezium and inner trapezoid respectively; a second thumb, consisting of three phalanges, is attached to the outer side of the index by ligament: a second index with normal right charac- ters follows; its metacarpal bone does not reach the second trapezoid but ends in a point above and is joined by ankylosis to the head of a third metacarpal bone so intimately that it appears at first sight to be a portion of that bone; no other portion of an accessory third digit exists; the remaining digits are the normal third, fourth, and fifth. It appears as if the inner side of this manus has been doubled, the accessory toes being reversed and afterwards fused in obliquely behind and inside the normal digits. In the pes the second digit is supplemented by an additional reversed second digit. The middle cuneiform is also double. The inner cuneiform exists, but the normal rudiment of a hallux is absent. Presented by B. T. Lowne, Esq. 306. The left manus and pes of the same animal, exhibiting the same malformation, dissected to show the muscles. In the manus a distinct extensor muscle, proprius pollicis, goes to the accessory or inner thumb, and a second similar muscle goes to the phalanges of the accessory index. It has probably been de- tached from its proper thumb, which is extremely minute and has become united with the finger which bears it. There is a flexor brevis pollicis (?) to the same finger.