81 ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. and ulnar of both arms in an adult is preserved in the museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. 335. The right arm of the same foetus. The limb terminates just below the elbow in a stump like that of an amputa- tion. Tho arm has been divided vertically to show the condition of the internal parts. The humerus is perfect and articulates with a piece of cartilage, which represents the upper extremity of the ulna. The direction of this rudimentary olecranon is such that the forearm, if developed, would be flexed at right angles to the arm. The triceps and brachialis anticus are both seen in section. The skin is stretched tightly over this olecranal cartilage, but it forms a tubercle at its anterior extremity, an exceedingly rudimentary representative of the forearm and hand. 336. The left arm of the same foetus, in which the upper arm ends in a conical stump at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the humerus. A longitudinal section has been made through it, to show the rounded termination of the humerus and its relation to the integument. A minute cutaneous knot represents the more anterior parts of the limb. 337. The left inferior extremity of the same foetus. All the parts below the condyles of the femur are represented by a minute tubercle only on the.outer side of a rounded stump; and this is formed by the skin, which is stretched tightly over the inferior articular extremity of the femur. The limb has been divided vertically. 338. A Human full-time foetus, with the inferior extremities represented by button-shaped processes, and the position of the superior extremities indicated by minute depres- sions only. The left inferior extremity has been dis- sected ; it is seen to consist of ligamentous tissue, into which numerous irregular muscles arising from the pelvis are inserted. The testes are abdominal, and there is an excessive development of subcutaneous fat. Presented by C. J. White, Esq., 1870. c. Micromelia. This term has been applied to minute undeveloped limbs. Examples are exceedingly rare. Q