104 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OV TIIE GENERATIVE ORGANS. Hunter adds: " The animal had four teats, but the glandular part of the udder was small." Hunterian. 444. A similar but much smaller preparation, described as " Mr. Wells's Free Martin"*. The vesiculse and their ducts, as well as the terminal portion of the vasa deferentia, are normal. Cowper's glands are present, and there is a rudimentary penis retracted in sigmoid curves. The sexual cord is solid, as are likewise its cornua. There is only a trace of an epididymis on the left side ; but the cornua of the sexual cord ends in a large thick-walled cyst: the vas deferens on this side is deficient in several places. On the right side there is no trace of a vas or epididymis, and a small oval body, more like an ovary than a testis, exists in the place of the testis ; it consists of tissue, however, which, on microscopic examination, appears iden- tical with that of which the imperfect testes of these malfor- mations usually consist; there is no reason to regard it as other- wise than an imperfect testicle. There is much fat in the neigh- bourhood of these rudimentary sexual bodies. The animal from which fhis preparation was taken was a " Free Martin." The following history is given by Hunter in his 'Animal (Economy':— " It was between three and four years old, and had never been observed to show any signs of desire for the male, although it went constantly with one. It looked: more like a heifer than Free Martins usually do. The teats and udder were small, compared to those of a heifer." Hunterian. c. Oynandry. 445. A section of the pelvis of a Puppy, with a cloaca common to the rectum and urino-generative pouch. The sex is uncertain; but the appearance of the glands is more like that of ovaries than of testes. There is a large sinus with two cornua beyond the opening of the bladder, but no trace of vas deferens,, vesiculse, or penis. There is no uterus, properly so called, and no vagina. The mi- croscopic structure of the genital glands is more like that of an ovary than of an abnormal androgynous testis. In their immature state and extremely fibrous condition, however, it would be im- possible to assert with any degree of certainty that the animal was either a modified male or female. 'Animal GEconomy,' 2nd edit. p. 64, pi. xi.