ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 95 B. Of the anterior Abdominal wall and Bladder. Where there is arrested closure of the abdominal parietes below the umbilicus, and the deficient space is occupied by the urinary bladder. When closure is almost complete, epispadias results : in the more severe forms of this malformation the anterior wall of the bladder is absent, and the posterior portion of that viscus forms a part of the abdominal wall, and projects as a soft rounded tumour, upon the surface of which the ureters open. The symphysis pubis is either deficient or ligamentous, and the penis usually consists of little more than a glans. a. Epispadias. 420. The bladder and generative organs of a Man, aged 22' with extreme epispadias; the bladder is of small size, and opens by an infundibuliform passage above the root of the penis. The penis is shorter than is normal; it consists of a pair of cavernous bodies surmounted by a rudimentary glans; its upper surface is grooved and covered with mucous membrane. The symphysis pubis is imperfect and Hgamentous. Presented by R. Partridge, Esq., 1865. b. Ectopia vesicas. 421. The lower part of the trunk of a Human foetus at about the sixth month of gestation, with complete ectopia of the bladder, so that its posterior wall forms a soft rounded tumour, extending from the umbilicus to the root of the penis, which is rudimentary. The ureters open im- mediately above the root of the penis; their orifices are marked by bristles. The mother was a negress, aged 16 years. The foetus was one of twin birth and was still-born. Presented by Br. R. Sweeting, 1869. 422. The lower part of the trunk of a small Human foetus with complete ectopia of the bladder. The penis is repre- sented by a slight rounded eminence, apparently the glans, with a fold of skin beneath it united to it by a well-marked frenum. There is a slight vertical line im- mediately above the glans, on each side of which are the openings of the prostatic and seminal ducts. The ureters are marked by bristles. The scrotum is well formed;