MALFORMATIONS OF THE AXIS FROM DISEASE. 65 posterior aspect of the abdominal wall has a transverse ridge below the neck of the exomphalos; this corresponds to the pubic symphysis; below tho ridge the external abdominal wall looks backward and presonts a mucous surface of a triangular form. This surface may be looked upon as a kind of cloaca. The intes- tine opens at the apex of the triangle, where it is marked by a green glass rod; it has probably been cut at this point, as it en- tered the umbilical cord to form an umbilical hernia, a condition com- monly seen in such malformations when the bowel ends in a blind extremity in the cord. The ureters open by two minute openings marked by bristles at the base of the triangle. The vagina is situ- ated in the centre of the space ; it is marked by a purple rod: a papilla, with a blind foramen between it and the vagina, is seen above the latter and between it and the ureters ; its nature is un- certain, but it probably represents the blind rectum ; it is marked by a pale blue glass rod. The liver and intestine are voluminous. The kidneys have coalesced in the median line, and open externally by a single ureter, the other ureter ends in an impervious cord. A purple rod is passed under both ureters. There is a body on the left side which is not paired on the right, it appears to be a suprarenal capsule. The uterus is very large, and its cornua are widely separated. The diaphragm is imperfect, and the heart is much drawn down by the displacement of the abdominal viscera. 264. The bones of a foetal Calf with strong backward curvature of the spine, and doubling back of the ribs. The pelvic bones are closely approximated, and several of the ribs are fused together. There has evidently been complete ectopia of the viscera. No anterior extremities existed. This condition is nearly identical with, except in the ab- sence of the anterior extremities, that described by Gurlt under the term Schistozomus reflexus. Hunterian. Subclass IT. Dropsy of the axial canal of the cerebrospinal system. Dropsy of the axial canal of the brain and spinal cord is by far the most frequent disease of intra-uterine life. When con- fined to the cord, it gives rise to the condition known as spina bifida; the neural arches are open behind, although they are usually well developed. In extreme forms a lamina and spinous process is formed on each side of the vertebral column and lies parallel to the transverse process, the canal being completely v