XV DUPLICITY. Amongst the Vertebrata dichotomy of the axis is by no means unknown ; it may occur at either extremity, but the posterior extremity is most frequently affected. This con- dition originates in dichotomy of the primitive groove and notochord. Many discussions have been held and much difference of opinion exists as to its origin. That there is but a single germinal area is undoubted* ; but the question at issue is whether there were originally two grooves and two notochords arising from independent sources (i. e. possibly from two vesicles of Purkinje being present in a single ovumf or from the original fusion of two yelks) or from an originally simple ovum. The former hypothesis is unsubstantiated, since the occasional presence of two vesicles of Purkinje, or the fusion of two yelks in an ovum, which we do not know will produce a double embryo, cannot be regarded in the light of evidence; and the hypothesis entirely fails to account for the .presence of a single blastoderm, a single germinal area, or a dichotomous embryo: on the other hand, the view that excess of formative power or nutriment pro- duces a tendency to the complete or partial doubling of the embryo upon a single blastoderm, by the formation of two points of growth in the place of one, is borne out by numerous facts. The doubling of a single limb, although excessively rare, occurs at times (see No. 307), bearing out the view that a double axis is the result of dichotomy. The observations of Lereboullet on the ova of fishes points to the same conclusion. He says :— " Le bourrelet en effet constitue le veritable germe em- bryonnaire, germe toujours simple, unique comme le vitellus que le blastoderme recouvre, mais susceptible quand le developpemcnt se derange, de vegeter comme la substance dont se compose le corps des polypes, et de produire des formes variees qui montrent toujours une tendance manifeste * Vrolik, Allen Thomson, and others have placed this matter beyond doubt. t M. Coate, Comptes llendus, 1855, p. 931.