ARREST OP DEVELOPMENT. 61 tho noi'ta several sympathetic ganglia are apparent; and the pneu- mogastric nerve is seen in the neck lying upon tho bodies of the vertebrae. Presented by John King, Esq., 1868. 242. The other half of the same foetus, showing the left Wolffian body and its relation to the kidneys, which are seen in section. This presents one of the most remarkable in- stances in the permanence and extraordinary growth of a temporary structure yet observed. A slice has been made through the hypertrophied integuments in the region of the inferior extremity, and the imperfect bones of the extremity are exposed. Three small openings, pro- bably those of the mouth, orbit, and meatus auditorius, are indicated by bristles. Presented by John King, Esq., 1868. 243. The right half of the head and neck of an amorphous foetal Calf. The skull-cavity is excessively irregular and very small, consisting rather of several bony cysts than of the normal series of bones. The vertebrae of the neck con- stitute an enormous cancellous bony mass, traversed by a very much bent spinal canal and cord. The mouth forms a cavity that does not communicate with the oeso- phagus. There is an ill-shaped external ear. The ex- ternal form is very irregular, from the great hypertrophy of the subcutaneous fat and connective tissue. Hunterian. 244. The other half of the same. Hunterian. 245. The skeleton of an amorphous foetal Lamb from Trinidad. The foetus consisted of an almost spherical mass about 10 inches in diameter, with a pair of fairly developed posterior extremities growing from it. It was covered with thick black wool. It possessed a considerable body- cavity, which contained a coil of intestine, No. 246. The bones form two separate masses. The upper one consists of the ribs and vertebrae ; it was situated in the wall of the sphe- rical mass. The lower one consists of the innominate bones and the inferior extremities. The vertebra are ankyloscd by their laminae, and the spines form a single broad blade. The spinal canal is occluded, and there is considerable contortion of tho whole column. The ribs are anky- losed together, and are exceedingly broad.