30 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. Subclass IV. Heterologous union. A. By Impaction. Syn. Heterodidymus, Gurlt. A second embryo may become wedged in between the visceral arches or laminae of another before they unite. In such cases the impacted foetus usually exhibits great deficiency, and is called a parasite. Most frequently it has neither a heart nor a head; sometimes it becomes converted into a more or less amorphous tumour, with one or two organs only developed in a normal manner. The supporting foetus is called the autosite. a. Between the lateral halves of the sternum. Syn. Thoracopagus Heterodelphus, Geoff. The upper part of the parasite is wedged in between the thoracic laminae of the autosite, and lodged in the middle of a fissured ster- num. The parasite is usually very defective; the axis may be en- tirely wanting, the limbs only being developed. More frequently there is a rudimentary abdominal cavity in the parasite, commu- nicating with that of the autosite above the umbilicus, as in ordi- nary thoracopagus. The abdominal cavity of the parasite is some- times distinct from that of the autosite, and has a separate um- bilicus. A perfect series of transitional forms exist between this condition and ordinary thoracopagus; hence it has been called parasitic, or heterodelphous thoracopagus. 123. A female foetal Pig with a headless acardiac parasite united to the thorax and abdomen. The cervical region of the parasite is attached to the sternum of the autosite. The body-cavities of the two are continuous. The parasite has a single large kidney, a urinary bladder, and a pair of hypogastric arteries. There is also a small piece of intestine connected with that of the autosite by a long narrow gut. The abdominal cavities have been laid open to show their continuity. Hunterian. 124. A foetal Kitten with a similar parasite. Hunterian. 125. A foetal Kitten with a parasite attached to the sternal region. The body-cavity of the parasite is very small and distinct from that of the autosite. There are two distinct cords