ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 36 extremity only, and having a blind urethral pouch immediately beneath its root. There is no bladder. Presented by G. W. Young, Esq. 136. A cyst with a portion of the stomach aud jejunum from a lad between 15 and 16 years of age. The cyst contained the imperfect male foetus preserved in the next prepara- tion, No. 186. The case was described in a pamphlet by N. Highmore, Esq., in 1814. The cyst in this case is intimately and extensively connected with the duodenum and jejunum. A portion of the stomach, which is excessively elongated, is seen on the left of the preparation ; it has been filled with horsehair. The duodenum is seen opening on the left into the upper part of the cyst; from this point the intestine forms part of the wall of the cyst as far as the right extremity of the preparation, where the opening of the jejunum is seen; a piece of glass tube has been inserted into this opening. The intestine was below and not above the cyst when it was in situ. The interior of the wall of the cyst, except that portion of it which was formed by the intestine, is covered with ragged pro- cesses of membrane, so that it has a villous appearance. The funis arose from the posterior and upper part of the cyst (the lower part in the preparation). The whole was very vascular, and the lad died of haemorrhage into its interior. Presented by N. Highmore, Esq. 137. The foetus from the same. There is no head, but some slips of membrane unite the upper part of the vertebral column with the funis ; they represent the membranes of the brain. A quantity of long, thick, matted hair is seen growing from near the same point, probably from what should have been the frontal region. The limbs are very ill pro- portioned and are violently flexed. The hands are at right angles to the arms. The whole of the left leg has apparently been absorbed, a large denuded surface on the side of the pelvis being the only indication of its ever haviug existed. The right foot is bent inward as in ta- lipes varus. The sharp angles of the joints have under- gone absorption, the bones being denuded and partially removed at these points. The upper part of the body has a long fleshy papilla growing from it, enlarged and hol- low at its extremity ; it is undoubtedly a frontal pro- boscis. In Mr. Highmore's original description it has