68 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. b. Occipital deficiency. 278. The skull and vertebral column, with a portion of the ribs and the pelvis, of a hydrocephalic male foetus, with distortion of the vertebral column, defective development of the oc- cipital bone, and defective closure of the vertebral canal behind. The laminae of the cervical and first six dorsal vertebrae are widely separated behind; those of the right side are defective. There are apparently but five cervical vertebrae, and their laminae are fused together. The head was pressed back so that the edges of the enormously dilated foramen magnum rest on the edges of the laminae of the dorsal and cervical vertebrae, to which they were attached by ligament. The supraoccipital cartilage bones are very small. There -are, however, two scale-like bones representing the upper part of the supraoccipital bounding the foramen magnum above. The frontals and parietals are very large. There is spina bifida in the lumbar and sacral region. The pedicles and laminae are well developed, but they are spread out on either side, so that the spinal canal is open behind. There was talipes of both feet. Presented by J. Hutchinson, Esq., 1870. 279. An occipital bone with similar deficiency from a Human foetus. c. Epicephalocele. Syn. Monstres Exencephaliens, Geoff. 280. A Human female foetus with a large cyst-like tumour in the occipital region. The frontal bones are much depressed. The cyst has been opened behind; the posterior part of the cerebrum protrudes into it. 281. The head of a Human foetus with a large epicephalocele on the vertex. . Hunterian. Subclass III. Anencephalus. Syn. Monstres Pseudencephaliens et Acephaliens, Geoff. In anencephalus the roof of the skull is absent or consists of the membrane-bones pushed forward upon the forehead, where they form a narrow band or crest; the cartilaginous supraoccipital is always absent, and the whole base of the skull is widely exposed. The neural arches of the cervical vertebrae are more or less open,