92 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OV THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. the notice of the surgeon is atresia ani, or arrest of develop- ment of the lower extremity of the rectum. 397. A portion of the rectum of a Child born with an im- perforate anus. It has been considerably distended by the meconium. Presented by Sir W. Blizard. 398. A similar preparation. Presented by Sir W. Blizard. 399. The rectum of a female Child nearly two months old born with an imperforate anus, for which no operation was performed; it is much distended, and its muscular coats are hypertrophied. The following note is extracted from Hunter's Manuscript' Cases and Dissections :'—" Upon examination of the body the large intestines were found very much enlarged and distended, particularly towards the . rectum. The jejunum and ileum were slightly in- flamed ; the viscera in other respects appeared natural. The colon and rectum contained fluid faces." Hunter ian. 400. The rectum of a Child with imperforate anus ; the last inch of the bowel is represented by a fibrous cord only; it is much distended above, and its coats are thickened. 401. The rectum of a female Child which was born with im- perforate anus, in which the operation was performed; death took place a few hours after. Hunterian. 402. The rectum of a female Child born with an imperforate anus. The operation was performed more than a month before death. Presented by A. C. Hutchison, Esq., 1828. 403. The rectum of a male Child upon whom the operation for imperforate anus was performed with some success. In this instance the trochar had to be introduced three inches before it reached the intestine. The child survived more than ten months. The parts around the artificial opening are much contracted by the action of the spirit in which it is preserved, so that its length is reduced to little more than an mch. The child suffered much from constipa- tion, sometimes for three weeks at a time, and also from a small fistulous opening between the intestine and the urethra; the urine first became tinged with feces at the end of three months. The intestine above the structure is greatly dilated and hypertrophied. Presented by A. C. Hutchison, Esq., 1823.