DUPLICITY. 21 processes. The upper pair of limbs (in the present posi- tion of the preparation) belong to the upper and the lower pair to the lower foetus. Each foetus may be considered as having its pubic symphysis open and its pubic bones united with those of the other. The axial parts posterior to the point of union in the upper foetus turn to the right, those of the lower to the left side of the preparation. The upper foetus is well formed, except in the pelvic region. The lower foetus is very imperfect. Its. face is misshapen, and the upper cranial bones are altogether wanting. The superior extremities are thick and defec- tive, and the fingers are very short, owing to the imperfect condition of the terminal phalanges. The nails are scarcely perceptible. No history has been preserved. 100. The viscera and generative organs of the same. The viscera of the upper foetus are seen upon the right hand, those of the lower upon the left-hand side of the preparation. The heart, liver, and lungs of the upper foetus are nor- mal : the development of the intestines seems to have been somewhat arrested; they terminate in a very capacious thin-walled rectum, which was much stained with me- conium. There is a small anal opening marked by a white bristle; it is probable, however, that the dilation of the rectum arose from atresia at an earlier stage. The heart, lungs, and liver of the lower foetus are much smaller; the intestines are about equal in development to those of the upper one; there is much less enlargement of the lower part of the bowel, but it opens into the en- larged intestine of the upper foetus near the anal opening. The most remarkable character in these viscera is that they do not exhibit " situs mutatus." The kidneys in both foetuses exhibit the condition' known as horseshoe kidneys; they unite below with their fellows across the mesial line. The four ureters open into a single large urinary bladder, which is laid open; the openings of the ureters are marked by black bristles. The urethra is likewise laid open. The uteri are botli equally developed; both vaginae are well formed, but they both open with the urethra on the right (upperside in this preparation); their openings arc marked with black bristles. The labia majora, minora, and clitoris arc well formed on this side.