52 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF TIIE AXIS. bosces are either very rudimentary or wanting. When the ears only are present, the squamosal bones form a shield in front of the skull-case. The term nanocephalus has been applied to this form. The periotic bones always retain their normal position with regard to the axis, and the tympanic bones are usually removed from them. The pharynx always ends blindly above, but often communicates with the exterior by tympanic spiracles. The brain is either arrested in its development or, in nano- cephalus, is completely absent, the skull-cavity being occupied by a cyst surrounded by the anterior termination of the medulla. In cyclocephalus in the human subject the axis of the skull re- mains in the same line as that of the vertebral column. The most extreme form of cranial arrest produces entire ab- sence of the skull, or a cyst between the external ears terminates the axial canal in front. The term acephalus has been used to designate this malformation. a. Cyclocephalus. 200. The head of a male foetal Pig with a frontal proboscis and a pair of eyes fused as far as the cornea. The maxillae are represented by a papilla beneath the eyes. The mandible is absent. The tympanic cavities are united. The ex- ternal auditory meatuses are not fused together: a black bristle is passed through that on the left side into the pharynx. The pharynx has been laid open. The animal was otherwise normal. 201. A similar preparation in which the eyes are fused into a single globe. The ear, pharynx, and larynx are dissected. The hyoid arch is perfect. On the right side the anterior wall of the external meatus only has been removed, on the left side the tympanum has also been laid open. There was an external opening beneath the bulla? into two distinct passages which lead into the pharynx; these auditory spiracles are marked by two bristles. The median Eustachian tube is also marked by a bristle. The tympanic membranes were both perfect. 202. The head of a foetal Sow with similar deficiency. In this specimen the median eye appears as if it had been much damaged by inflammatory action. 203. A section through the head of a similar foetal Pig, showing