VARIATION. Xll animals, and is often so excessive in them that the whole maims or pes becomes doubled and usually exhibits the appearance of a right and left manus or pes united together. This condition is excessively rare in the Unguiculata; one case only is recorded in man *. Another kind of polydactylism, confined to animals with less than five toes, arises from the redevelopment of some of the absent digits: No. 302 exhibits this condition in the Horsef. A similar condition perhaps occurs in the domestic Dog, where the inner toe of the pes is frequently developed : it appears, however, to be abnormal in having three phalanges instead of two; at least if there are only two the metatarsal bone is removed from its normal and very constant position. In the St. Bernard Dog this inner toe is double, that is, six toes characterize the pes; so that in this case the supernu- merary toes may probably be looked upon as entirely addi- tional, as they are in the Dorking Fowl, where such digits characterize the breed (see Nos. 294 and 295). Lastly, sometimes a digit or a whole limb exhibits unmistakable dichotomy: No. 307 presents this condition, and the Musee Dupuytren contains a similar human foot. It is not possible, however, to distinguish dichotomy of a digit in all cases from mere addition ; it is probable, however, that the conditions are really very distinct. The theory that such additional parts originate from the fusion of twin embryos may be looked upon as entirely superseded J. 3. Variations in the lobulation of the spleen. The num- ber of transitional states between an entire spleen and one much lobulated or divided render it probable that the most marked cases of lobulation and division of that organ are properly considered as mere varieties. 4. Variations in the form and arrangement of muscles ; reversions to anterior types in the muscular and osseous systems. * J. J. Murray, Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xlvi. p. 2!). t Wood-Mason, Proc. Asiat. Soc. Beng. 1871, p. 24. t Schultze, Virchow's Archiv, Bd. xvii. p. 484.