72 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THL LIMBS. the second metacarpal bone, which bears a large accessory toe inside its normal digit. The accessory toe simulates the inner digits of the right manus. It cannot be iden- tified with any normal digit. Presented by Mr. E. Horniblow, 1872. 298. The skeleton of the right manus of a Pig, which is almost completely double. The accessory parts apparently belong to the left side of the body. The condition of this manus, as well as the succeeding, is appa- . reutly identical with that of a human hand described by Jardine Murray (Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xlvi. p. 29), a photograph of which is preserved in the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital. Hunterian. 299. A similar specimen. Hunterian. 300. Part of the skeleton of the left manus of a Calf with a supernumerary toe on its inner side. The epiphysis of the third metacarpal bone is very broad and is partially divided into two portions, and its shaft is correspondingly broad below. 301. The manus of a small Horse, with an accessory hoof and imperfect digit growing from the inner side of the distal extremity of the middle metacarpal bone. The splint- bones are normal, and there is no evidence to show that the hoof and digit represent the second. As in the above and some of the following cases, it has apparently the characters of a digit from the other manus. The epi- physis of the metacarpal bone is also partly doubled. This foot is described in the Osteological Catalogue as No. 3206. Purchased. 302. The left second and third metatarsal bones of a Horse, with excessive development of the second, which ends below in a trochlear extremity for articulation with a digit*. 303. The right and left third metacarpal bones of the same Horse, with a supernumerary second metacarpal of large size, having an inferior trochlear surface for a digit attached to each. An internal splint-bone, however, existed as usual, a fact which can readily be made out from the * A similar case of development of a splint-bone in the manus is figured and described by Wood-Mason in the Proc. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, 1871, p. 24.