ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 45 the brain. The cerebrum is very small; its anterior lobes are completely fused. The middle lobe of the cerebellum and the corpora quadrigemina are proportionately very large; the latter are not covered by the cerebrum. Hunterian. 107. The head of a similar foetal Pig. The roof of the skull has been removed. The cerebral lobes are completely fused in front. The whole brain scarcely fills a quarter of the cranial cavity. Hunterian. 168. A similar preparation, but the eye is apparently very de- fective. The cornea and lens seem to have been arrested in their growth. The cornea is conical. Hunterian. 169. A similar specimen with the side of the face dissected to show the form of the skull, the superior maxillary bone, and pterygoid processes. The zygoma and the ascending ramus of the mandible have been removed. The pro- longation of the frontal bones into the proboscis is well seen in this preparation. Mus. Brit. 170. The head of a foetal Pig with cyclopia, dissected, to show the condition of the brain and nerves. The distribution of the ophthalmic branch of the fifth to the proboscis, and the superior maxillary nerves to the maxillae, is well seen on the right side of the head. The brain is exposed on the left side. The small hemispheres are fused together. The corpora quadrigemina and the cerebellum are not covered by the cerebrum. 171. A dissection of the head of an Indian wild Boar with simi- lar deficiencies. The upper preparation consists of a section of the head. The cavity of the proboscis extends back to the cranial bones aud con- tains a cartilaginous fold, probably the inferior spongy bones. The lower preparation shows the maxilla and teeth, the pterygoid and styloid process, the middle ear and its ossicles, together with the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves. 172. A foetal Boar with similar deficiencies. There is consi- derable inequality of development on the two sides, with consequent dislocation of the eye. Hunterian. 173. A foetal Hare with similar deficiency. The frontal pro- boscis is comparatively small. Presented by A. Newton, Esq.