xxi ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. fusion results, with the absence of the parts which nor- mally intervene. The axis of the skull may fail to a greater or less extent, a condition accompanied by fusion of the eyes (cyclopia) and absence of the median structures of the nose, and usually accompanied by an arrested condition of the brain, in which, although growth has continued, evolu- tion has not; it probably arises from defective nutrition or atrophy of the axis of the skull, and may be considered as the result of very early embryonic disease. The various forms of facial fusion {Cyclopia, Ethmocepha- lus, &c), certain defective conditions of the limbs {Perome- lia), fusion of the limbs (Sympodia), and deficiencies of other parts are also probably of this kind. IV. In the fourth form of arrest, differentiation fails at an early period; this is seen most frequently in the intercostal spaces, a complete layer of bone being formed in the place of intercostal muscles between an adjacent pair of ribs. It usually accompanies severe forms of arrest in other parts. Sometimes no muscles exist, the whole body being formed of dense connective tissue, containing bones and cartilages. Other examples of this kind of arrest, which might fairly be called histological, occur. V. Lastly, the heart may undergo an arrest of develop- ment and atrophy at a very early period, so that an acardiac foetus results. Such malformations always exhibit great histological arrest; many of the organs remain in an em- bryonic condition, although they may increase in size. Some parts become so altered that they can scarcely be recognized. The head is usually completely absent, or it consists of a mere bony cyst. Functionally active organs always undergo considerable after modification whenever their development has been arrested: this is especially seen in the heart. Other parts exhibit the conditions in a less degree. The pelvis No. 424 is a good example of this phenomenon: the pubic bones have been arrested in their growth in consequence of their taking no part in the support of the body, and they have