ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. b. Nanocephalus. The skull of a foetal Lamb with deficiency of the entire axis in front of the basisphenoid region. The mandible and all the facial structures, except a shallow orbit, are absent. The squamosal bones are united beneath the skull. The bullae of the ears are not fused in this preparation. Presented by C. B. Rose, Esq., 1869. A foetal Puppy with a nanocephalous skull. There is a very imperfect Cyclops-eye, a soft imperforate frontal proboscis, and a similar structure representing the max- illae. The pharynx opens through the aural tract. The roof of the skull has been removed to show its base from within. The axis terminates in the basisphenoid region, immediately in front of the foramen magnum. All the bones of the skull except those of the ear-capsule are very small; these are of their normal magnitude, and occupy a very large part of the base of the skull. Mus. Brit. 212. A nanocephalous foetal Puppy with no eye or orbit; it is otherwise similar to the last. Hunterian. 213. A similar foetal Hare, but without any maxillary proboscis. 214. A similar nanocephalous foetal Kitten, but without any pro- boscis. There is a caeca! foramen representing the orbit. The tympanic bullae are united. The single meatus ex- ternus has been laid open to show the tympana; beneath these is a passage, marked by a bristle, leading into the pharynx. The thoracic cavity has been opened and the thymus removed to show the normal condition of the heart and lungs. Hunterian. 215. A microcephalous foetal Pig with fusion of the tympanic cavities. A small bifid tubercle on the face is the only remnant of the united and atrophied eyes. There are no other facial organs except a pair of external ears that are united by their bases. The neck and thorax have been laid open to show the perfect condition of the hyoid arch, larynx, trachea, and lungs. The calvarium has been re- moved to show the base of the skull. Hunterian. 216. The nanocephalous skull of a similar foetal Pig. The squa- mosal bones are fused together and form a square pro- jecting plate above the united tympanic bullae. The frontal bones are very defective. The basioccipital is the 54 210. 211.