60 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 2-10. The other half of the same. It exhibits similar characters, except that there is no arm on this side. 341. The right half of a Human amorphous microcephalous foetus with great hypertrophy of the connective tissue, so that the whole body has an elongated ovate form. There are no traces of limbs on this side, but a small tubercle represents the lower extremity on the other half (see No. 242). The anterior portion is separated from the rest by a slight constriction; it is covered with short soft brown hair. There was also a depression dividing that portion which represents the nates, and corresponding to the normal cleft between them. The spinal column has the usual flexures; but the spines are represented by a long continuous rod of cartilage, probably the remains of the unsegmented investing mass highly developed. Some of the laminae have been removed to show the spinal canal. There are numerous large cysts in the integument behind the spinal column. This foetus was one of twins; the other was well formed. The skull presents a very large occipital bone of considerable thickness; all the other parts of the cranium and face are so de- fective that they cannot be recognized. The tympanic cavities are marked by a blue glass rod; a black bristle below this marks the opening of the pharynx externally. Masses of cancellous bone above and below the opening probably represent tbe jaws. The thoracic cavity is filled with reticulated areolar tissue. The ab- dominal cavity is comparatively large. A small stomach is seen at its upper part: this communicates with the pharynx by a narrow pervious oesophagus. There is no pyloric orifice to the stomach, and no duodenum. A quarter of an inch of small intes- tine, blind at either extremity, lies below the stomach, but is in no way connected with it. The large intestine is blind above, makes a sigmoid curve, and terminates in a straight rectum, which opens externally by an anus. There is a considerable cavity in front of the intestine partially occupied by the kidneys (which are fused together into a single gland), the Wolffian body and its duct, and the uiinary bladder. For a further description of these see the account of the other half of the same foetus, No. 242. There is a long straight aorta in front of the spine, which ter- minates below in two umbilical arteries, and above by two caro- tids and subclavians. The right umbilical artery is marked by a blue glass rod; the right carotid is indicated by a bristle. Behind