102 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THIS GENERATIVE ORGANS. upper part of the Miillerian ducts, lie near the extremity of the cornua. The left cornu and part of the corresponding vas has been accidentally destroyed. The right testis is Been under the pubic arch: a section has been made through it to show its struc- ture. The left testis is elongated and atrophied considerably. The vas deferens of the right side is impervious throughout a great portion of its length. A clitoris-like fold at the orifice of the sinus encloses a very diminutive folded penis in a small cyst-like cavity. Hunterian. 440. A section of the pelvis of a Sheep, from the West Indies, in which the generative organs closely resemble those in the last preparation, except that the testes are both much elongated and the uterus masculinus (or upper part of the genital pouch) is perforated by two tubes, Miillerian ducts. There are no cysts of Morgagni, or at least they are not apparent *. Hunterian. 441. The generative organs of a very young Calf, described as a " Palmer's Free Martin." They exhibit a highly andro- gynous condition. The large urethral bulb is laid open from above to show the orifices of the urethra and sexual ducts. Just within the orifice of the bulb which forms the external opening, and closely resembling the vagina of the female, a slight depression is seen, and immediately beneath this, in the anterior wall of the bulb, is an exceedingly diminutive penis; it is retracted permanently in sigmoid curves. The neck of the bladder opens into the sinus of the bidb near its upper extremity, and just above it are the openings of the vasa deferentia ; the bidb is prolonged slightly above these, and ends in a thick solid cord, the sexual cord of the embryo. This terminates above in two solid cornua, an inch and a half in length; a pair of rudimentary testes are sus- pended in a peritoneal fold at their extremities. The epididymis is much larger than the gland, and this has given rise to the opinion that both ovaries and testes exist: sections have been made through these parts. The microscope shows that the testes con- sist of dense fibrous tissue with cells; their character is not that of an ovary, but closely resembles the testes usually found in these cases. The vasa deferentia are incorporated with the sexxial cord above, but are well formed below, as are also the vesiculae sem males f. Hunterian. * See Hunter's ' Animal (Economy,' p. 60. t Museum Drawings.