74 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIMBS. The pes has an additional extensor with a single tendon for the supernumerary toe. There is also an additional flexor profundus and a large abducens. It also receives a slip from the superficial flexor. The cat from which these specimens were taken* was one of a litter of five. All had five or six digits on the pes and six or seven on the manus, with one exception, where the hand was normal. The female parent was also the mother of the probable male parent; both had six or seven digits on the pes and manus respectively. The same peculiarity has been noticed in others of the breed. The mother is since said to have produced a perfectly normal litter. These animals were born at Kingswood, near Bath. Presented by B. T. Lowne, Esq., 1872. 307. The pelvis and posterior extremities of a small Monkey with doubling (dichotomy) of the whole inner side of the left limb. The obturator foramen is double and there are two ischial protu- berances. The femur is abnormally thick and has a double trochanter major. There are two tibise; the outer one, being very thin, resem- bles a fibula closely, but an examination of the tarsus at once reveals its true nature. All the bones of the tarsus except the os calcis and astragalus are double. The astragalus is very broad, and exhibits unmistakable marks of partial doubling; it articulates with two scaphoids, and each of these has its three cuneiforms. An addi- tional cuboid is seen between the two sets of cuneiform bones. All the toes are doubled, except the thumb, and occur in the following order, from within outwards,—1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th. The median thumb is evidently crowded out, as its cuneiform bone exists. The inner set of cuneiform bones are very much crowded together. All the toes are unmis- takably left digits, none are reversed. Hunterian. 308. The right hand of a new-born Infant, with a supernu- merary fifth finger springing from the fifth metacarpal bone. The specimen has been dissected to show the ar- rangement of the tendons. The accessory finger receives the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti, a slip from it going to the normal digit. The accessory finger also re- ceives a slip from the adductor. The infant from which this, together with the two following preparations, was made exhibited several other malformations. See No. 155. Presented by R. Partridge, Esq., 1864. 309. The left hand of the same Infant, dissected. It presents