DUPLICITY. 37 been mistaken for a nipple, and hence the foetus was er- roneously described as a female. The generative organs are those of an imperfect male, consisting of a rudimentary penis invested by a very voluminous circular prepuce. The funis is short and thick, and when recent the foetus was covered with sebaceous secretion. Presented by N. HigUmore, Esq. C. By Adhesion. This is a much less intimate mode of union, and probably takes place at a much later stage of development. It occasionally happens that bothfoetuses are well developed, especially when they adhere by the skulls, the brains and their membranes remaining separate; much more frequently one foetus is very defective; it often forms a mere tumour, especially when adherent to the nates of the other. a. Craniopagus. 138. The skull of a Bengalee child, with a second imperfect skull attached to the anterior fontanelle, which is widely ex- tended. The base of the second skull is much contracted, the foramen magnum being almost closed. All the bones of the face are much smaller than those of the supporting skull. The faces are turned in almost opposite directions, so that the left frontal bones of one skull articulate by suture with the right parietals of the other, and vice versd. The history of this skull and an account of the child are given in the Phil. Trans, vol. lxxx. p. 296, from which the following particulars are extracted :— The child was a male, it was more than four years old at the time of its death, which was caused by the bite of a cobra. It was very emaciated, a fact attributed to the parents having used it as a show, always keeping it covered up, except when payment was made for its exhibition. The woman who acted as midwife was terrified at the appearance of the additional head, and tried to de- stroy the child by throwing it on the fire: it was rescued after one eye and ear were considerably burnt. There was no trunk to tbo second head; but it was surmounted, by a short neck terminating in a rounded tumour, winch is staled by one observer to have been epiite soft at the ago of two, and by another to have been quite hard and cartilaginous at the ago of four. Its external ears were represented by mere folds of skin, and