VARIATION. xi individual differences ; sufch are variations in the number of organs : organs which are often repeated in an organism are extremely prone to vary in number, and such variations are clearly nearly allied to ordinary individual differences. The effect of altered conditions frequently produces varia- tion by a definite action, certain conditions always pro- ducing similar variation ; such variation is usually more considerable than ordinary individual differences. Varia- tions sometimes arise suddenly, it may be by reversion to an anterior type; but in most cases it is either extremely difficult or impossible to distinguish between reversions and well-marked variations produced by other causes. Variations are frequently transmitted from generation • to generation, and the abnormality sometimes increases, some- times diminishes in intensity in each succeeding generation. The more marked forms of variation are, however, rarer and less truly transmitted than those which exhibit less considerable deviation from the usual type. The following principal groups of malformations have been included under this Class :— 1. Variations in the position of parts. Situs mutatus, or transposition of the viscera, a condition already ad- verted to. 2. Variations in the number of parts which are normally repeated several times, such as cases of an additional or deficient rib, or pair of ribs, or vertebra; or, in plants, of additional or deficient carpels, stamens, &c. The various forms of polydactylism have also been in- cluded under this Class, although some are evidently very different to others in their nature. Any division founded on the few specimens which are available would, however, have been far too hazardous : it has therefore been thought best to place all the specimens in one group; and as the greater part may probably be looked upon as variations, the whole have been included in this Class. It is a well-known law that multiple organs are more prone to vary in number than those which are not repeated.