viii INTRODUCTION. common Fowl a change of position occurs, so that the left side of the embryo comes to be laid on the adjacent surface of the yelk. Von Baer had remarked, in very rare in- stances in the bird's egg, more frequently in the ovum of the Pig, the embryo lying with its right side towards the yelk; and he has ingeniously supposed that the re- version of the viscera is connected with this malposition of the embryo"*. If such be the case, transposition of the viscera may be fairly regarded as a mere variation of the developmental process. Again, the aortic arches are liable to vary somewhat in the manner and period of their obliteration. It may be fairly assumed that variation is liable to occur in the developmental process at any stage, and disease is undoubtedly liable to do so. When either occurs in the later stages, there is usually no difficulty in tracing the re- sulting malformation to its proximal cause; but when the first deviation arises from variation in the process of de- velopment or disease in the earlier stages of development, the resulting malformation is often exceedingly complex, so that it is only by a careful examination of a large series of allied malformations that we can obtain any clue to the nature of the original deviation. Whatever the causes of embryonic disease and variation may be, there can be no doubt that these conditions react upon each other. Variation is extremely liable to occur as an accompaniment to disease, probably because new conditions arise; and, on the other hand, disease fre- quently results from variation. Again, disease passes by insensible degrees into variation, and hence no definite line can be drawn between malformations and varieties on the one hand and diseases on the other. Ordinary varieties, as well as the more marked degrees, of variation may be fairly looked upon as the result of variations in the develop- mental process ; they have therefore been grouped together * Allen Thomson, Lond. & Edinb. Med. Journ. 1844.