DUPLICITY. 31 for a short distance at least from the umbilicus. The parasite appears to have no spinal column; but the pos- terior limbs are well developed, and the anterior limbs are small but clearly recognizable. Presented by E. Belfour, Esq. 126. A similar specimen, in which the anterior extremities of the parasite are fused with the left anterior extremity of the autosite. 127. A similar specimen, except that the anterior extremities of the parasite are wanting. 128. A specimen similar to No. 125, with the body-cavities laid open to show that they are quite distinct. That of the parasite contains a single large kidney and a urinary blad- der : it has no alimentary canal. Hunterian. 129. The skeleton of a similar Kitten and parasite. The ster- num of the autosite is divided by a wide oval fissure, in which the four limbs of the parasite are seen. The pa- rasite has no vestige of an axis, unless a band of ligament in the centre of the sternal fissure represent its remains. The anterior pair of parasitic limbs are fused as far as the carpus. The Kitten was one of a litter of three, the others were normal. 130. A clay model of the Chinese lad Ake, aged 16, with an acephalous parasite attached to the lower part of the ster- num. The model was made from memory by a Chinese artist. The following extracts from a letter from J. Li- vingstone, Esq., Surgeon to the British factory at Hong Kong in 1804, give the history of the case :— " Ake was born with another male child of nearly the same size united to the pit of his stomach by the neck, as if his brother had plunged its head into his breast. The mother died from the effects of the labour. "Since birth the parasite has not increased much in size. The shoulder-bones are remarkably prominent. Here the model is faulty, since it presents the roundness of infancy; but all the plumpness had disappeared from the original, and the bones seem only covered with skin. The manner in which tho thighs appear is quite happy; but the feet, particularly the left, are not sufficiently clubbed. In the original tho feet and toes are less perfect than in the model; the toes adhere, and one or two are wanting.