ARKEST OF DEVELOPMENT. 53 the total absence of the cranio-facial axis in front of the basisphenoid bone. A bristle marks the external opening of the pharynx. Presented by Sir E. Home, Bart. 204. The tympanic bulla and the labyrinth of the left ear from the same. 205. The head of a Human foetus about the end of the sixth month, with a single eye in the mesial line and conjoined tympanic bones. There is no vestige of the mandible or facial axis. A dissection from behind shows the cavity of the skull and pharynx. The eye and ears are in front of the axis of the skull, which is perpendicular instead of horizontal. The cranio-facial axis is entirely deficient iii front of the basisphenoid. The tongue is well formed, and occupies the Tipper part of the pharynx. The pharynx opens externally by spiracles communicating with the external auditory meatus. 206. The posterior portion of the skull and brain of the same. The section passes through the cerebellum, pons, corpora quadrigemina, and a portion of the medulla and the fourth ventricle. 207. The lateral half of the head of a Human female foetus with entire deficiency of the facial axis, fusion of the eyes, absence of the mandible, and approximation of the ears. The pharynx opens by the aural passage, through which a black bristle has been passed. A mass of cartilage and several small masses of bone are seen beneath the eye, representing in some degree the deficient facial bones j there is also slight curvature of the cranial axis forwards. Presented by W. Squire Ward, Esq., 1863. 208. A longitudinal vertical section of the head and neck of a foetal Lamb with complete fusion of the eyes and ears and absence of all the other parts of the face. The ce- rebral lobes are hollow, and all the axial structures of the brain were fused in the median line. The pharynx opens by the median external auditory meatus, which is entirely removed from the auditory capsule. The tympani are absent. A bent purple glass rod marks the passage. Hunterian. 209. The opposite half of the same. Hunterian,