22 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. The external generative organs of the other side are very ill-formed, and are only connected with the internal organs by the right round ligament of the uterus of the lower foetus. There is no indication of either urethra, vagina, or anus on this side. There is a small swelling, about as large as a pea, at the anterior extremity of the left labium. 101. Human female twins, about the sixth month of gestation, -united by opisthozygosis. The second foetus is exces- sively malformed, and possesses neither heart nor brain. The axes are united near the lower part of the dorsal vertebrae by ordinary intervertebral cartilage and liga- ments, exactly like those between the consecutive verte- brae. The remainder of both vertebral columns is want- ing as far as the sacral vertebra?. There is a large sacrum on the left side, placed at right angles to and behind the united vertebral columns. The sacrum on the right side is very defective, consisting of a mere ring of bone articu- lated with the base of the left sacrum by cartilage and ligament. The neural arches of the vertebrae are open behind at the point of union between the sacra and vertebral columns. The laminae of both columns form a conti- nuous series with those on the adjacent sides of the sacrum on the left side, and of the rudimentary sacrum on the right; a large lozenge-shaped opening is thus left in the neural canal. The neural canal of the sacrum is continuous with that of the vertebrae, and this makes a sharp bend backwards from either axis to meet the sacral neural canal. The following facts were recorded by Drs. Marcet, Roget, and Mr. Lawrence from an examination made when the foetus first arrived in England:—" The inter- val between the lamina of the vertebra was occupied by a strong membrane; on the division of this, the medulla spinalis was seen running across from one spine to the other, and distributing its nerves laterally to the two lateral pelves." From a careful consideration of the above conditions, it appears that the axes of tAVo embryos came into contact at a very early period of development, so that the neural cords and the proto-