67 MALFORMATIONS OF THE AXIS FROM DISEASE. of the lower portions of the vertebral column of a Child with spina bifida. There is a thin membranous cyst cor- responding to the intervertebral ligaments and membrane. The neck of the cyst is very narrow; but this appearance is much increased by the mode of preparation. Presented by Dr. Thurnam, 1871. 272. A vertical section of a large lumbar spina bifida from a Child. The tumour is divided by a vertical septum, which is perforated by a large oval opening. The integu- ment has been removed, but the tumour is covered by subcutaneous fat. Presented by R. Partridge, Esq., 1869. 273. A sacral spina bifida from a Child. The tumour is covered with thickened integument; it has been opened at the side. Its cavity is seen to be divided into loculi by im- perfect septa. 274. The six lower dorsals, the lumbar and sacral vertebrae of a new-born Child with spina bifida. The laminae of the four lower dorsal, lumbar, and sacral vertebrae have been widely separated by dropsy of the cord. The laminae are well formed and are abnormal only in having been opened out by the tumour. This specimen indicates very clearly that spina bifida does not arise from arrest of develop- ment, but from pressure from within. Presented by F. Kiernan, Esq., 1871. 275. A section of the sacrum of an Adult with spina bifida. Presented by Sir W. Blizard. 276. A portion of the head and neck of a Child which died three days after birth from the effects of a ligature applied to a cervical spina bifida. The peduncle of the tumour is marked by a bristle; it passes between the laminae of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, the spines of these bones being deficient. The laminae of the perfect ver- tebrae have unfortunately been removed to show the cord. Presented by A. White, Esq., 1827. 277. The skeleton of a Human hydrocephalic foetus with a spina bifida involving the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions. In this specimen the bodies of the vertebrae are also de- ficient, so that the spine is completely cleft as high as the cervical region. P 2