97 ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. in which the penis is contained in a sheath the abdominal in- tegument is united to the penis along the edges of this groove, and the usual retractor muscles are absent. In the most marked forms the scrotum is completely divided into two lateral organs, which in the human subject exactly simulate the labia of the female. The urethra opens at the base of the penis between the lateral halves of the scrotum. In Androgyny the penis is very rudimentary or absent, and the scrotum is cleft. The urethra and sexual orifice are distinct in the human subject; but in animals this is not usually the case. The sinus pocularis, or male homologue of the uterus, is largely developed and generally has two more or less developed cornua. The vasa deferentia are commonly impervious through- out a considerable portion of their length. The testes are abdominal or lie in the inguinal canal; they are usually much atrophied, and probably never exhibit their normal structure. The subjects of this malformation so closely resemble the female externally that it is impossible to determine the sex without dissection. Many forms of gynandrous females resemble normal males far more closely than even slightly androgynous males do. In most animals the penis is present, but permanently re- tracted in lateral sigmoid curves, and remains very diminutive; it is usually entirely concealed in a fold of integument, and strongly resembles a clitoris. In Bulls, where the bulb of the urethra is normally a capacious pouch, it forms the termina- tion of the urino-generative tract, and closely resembles the vagina of the female. Such animals are called " Free Martins " when, as is usually the case, they are twins with perfect males; they frequently have well-developed teats and much larger mam- mary glands than are normal in the male. The urethral bulb terminates in a solid sexual cord of enormous dimensions; this cord is always surmounted by a pair of cornua; sometimes it is perforated by the Miillerian ducts, which run through its entire length and terminate blindly in the cornua. It will be remembered that the Miillerian ducts normally disappear in the male at an early period, but that they persist in the female and form the uterus and Fallopian tubes. This structure is therefore the homologue of the female uterus largely developed. ii