ARllliST OF DEVELOl'M KNT. 3<J ment, giving rise to median fissures, or the cranio-facial axis fails and undergoes atrophy or absorption, and the lateral arches unite I no maturely, so that fusion of the lateral organs results. In the first case there is usually some shortening of the cranio- facial axis, at least in extreme cases. In the second form the axis becomes narrowed, or is absent in parts of the skull, and the corresponding nervous and facial structures fail to be developed. The presence of lateral parts corresponding to the several por- tions of the axial region affords a strong indication that the axial parts are not absent from the commencement of development, but that they fail to be developed and become atrophied at an early stage. The most common form originates in the absence or failure of the parts developed from the investing mass in front of the notochord, the olfactory lobes and nasal capsules are then deficient. When the investing mass fails more posteriorly the eyes and mesencephalon are found wanting. When the invest- ing mass fails in front of the ear-capsules, so that the basi- occipital ends in a point between them, the mandible is absent; and in extreme cases, when the structures normally developed in the investing mass in front of the ear-capsules all fail, the tympanic cavities are fused in front. It frequently happens that the mesencephalic or epencephalic region are deficient, whilst the anterior and posterior portions of the cranio-facial axis are developed. The changes which produce these abnormal condi- tions probably commence in the investing mass, and not in the subsequently formed bones, since failure as frequently occurs between the basioccipital and basisphenoid as in either of these bones. In this case the anterior part of the basioccipital and the posterior part of the basisphenoid are equally arrested. The nerve-centres appear to be always arrested at points correspond- ing to the deficient portions of the axis, so that it appears im- probable that the malformation originates in deficiency of the facial arches. Barely one lateral half only of a portion of the cranium is arrested, the other being normally developed. In Fishes. 140. The anterior portion of an eel with complete deficiency of the face in front of the eyes. The mandible extends be-