27 DUPLICITY. 113. Human thoracopagcms twins of small size, with the viscera removed to show the union of the thoracic and abdominal parietes from within. The disposition of the ribs is well seen in this preparation. 114. The heart and lungs of the same. The heart is formed of the united hearts of both foetuses; it is much elongated in the direction of a line joining the two spinal columns. There are two di- stinct ventricles, and a single auricle extending the whole length of the upper part of the ventricles. There is a rudimentary auricular septum. There are two auriculo- ventricular openings, each guarded by a bicuspid valve. The cavities of the heart have been laid open. The ventricle on the right-hand side of the preparation has two arterial openings at its base, an aorta and a pulmonary artery, the latter indicated by a blue glass rod. The ventricle on the left-hand side has. a single artery or aorta, which gives off three pulmonary arteries near its origin. This vessel is laid open to show the orifices of the pulmonary vessels. There are four lungs, two on each side of the preparation. Neither set exhibits situs mutatus. 115. The livers, stomachs, and duodena of the same. The livers are united along their whole anterior edges. The sto- machs and spleens are seen one on either side of the liver. The gall-bladder and the ducts of each liver are distinct. The duodena open into a common pouch just below the entrance of the gall-ducts. The intestine was single from the confluence of the duodena to the termination of the jejunum. 116. The lower portion of the small and the commencement of the large intestine of the same. The jejunum terminates in a large pouch, on the extreme left of the preparation, from which two ilea arise. There are two cseca, and each has a distinct vermiform appendix. The large intestine was completely double. 117. Human female thoracopagous twins about the end of the sixth month of gestation. One of the foetuses has syreni- form fusion of the posterior limbs, and there is complete ectopia of all the abdominal viscera. The thoracic cavities have been opened to show the hearts, which arc very ab- normal ; one is above the other. The upper heart consists