ARREST 01' DEVELOPMENT. 103 442. The generative organs of an androgynous Bull. The ani- mal was described as " Mr. Arbuthnot's Free Martin" *. This preparation is essentially similar to the preceding, except that it is much larger, and the genital cord is perforated by Midler's ducts ; these have been laid open through their entire length ; they are seen to terminate blindly near the extremity of the cornua. The vesicute seminales arc normal, and the vasa defcrentia are developed; they pass up in front of the genital cord for a short distance, and then He as convoluted tubes along its outer borders, to the extremity of the cornua ; they terminate in the epididymis. The testes he close to the extremity of the cornua; they are very small in proportion to the epididymis, and hence they might easily be mistaken for ovaries. The openings of Cowper's ducts and of the vasa deferentia are marked with purple, and the urethra with a green glass rod. Hunterian. 4 13. A similar but much larger preparation, from " Mr. Wright's Free Martin/' which was five years old t- In this preparation a portion of the bladder has been removed and the spermatic arteries injected. The orifice of the bladder is marked by a blue glass rod; the openings of the vasa deferentia and Cowper's glands are marked with green rods. The sexual cord in this preparation is quite solid. The testes are situated at the extremity of its cornua; one is seen in section. Hunter said of them:—" I call these bodies testicles, first, because they are twenty times the size of the ovaries of the cow, and nearly the size of the testicles of the bull, or rather those of the ' ridgil,' the bull in which testicles never come down; secondly, the spermatic arteries are similar to those of the bull, especially of the ' ridgil'; thirdly, the cremaster muscle passed up from the rings of the abdominal muscles as it does in the £ ridgil.' Although I call these bodies testes, for the reasons given, yet when cut into they had nothing of the structure of the testicle, not being similar to any thing in nature ; they had more the appearance of disease." On microscopic examination they are found to abound in fibrous tissue enclosing cells, with here and there what appear to be seminal tubes. * Hunter's ' Animal (Economy,' 1st edit. p. 57, pi. i., 2nd edit. p. 71, pi. ix,; and Museum Drawings. The descriptions of plates ix. and x. in the second edition of the ' Animal (Economy' are transposed and wrongly numbered. t Hunter's ' Animal (Economy,' 1st edit. p. 5i), pi. ii., 2nd edit, pp. 64 & 71, pis. viii. & x.; and Museum Drawings.