INTRODUCTION. Xll At an early stage of development the digits may fairly be looked upon as multiple organs, as they differ in no way from each other; it is not therefore surprising that the number should frequently vary. As development proceeds, however, and each digit becomes differentiated to its peculiar characters, there is apparently a stronger and stronger tendency for supernumerary digits to disappear. The disappearance of these abnormal digits takes place according to a well-defined law, which appertains not only in all such cases, but also occurs normally in the Mammalia, where the typical number of digits is less than five and rudiments of the absent digits remain. 'The metacarpal or metatarsal bone is the first to dis- appear, and the phalanges remain loosely attached to the skin and neighbouring bones by ligamentous tissue; the basal and median phalanges are lost next in order, and the ungual phalanx in a rudimentary condition, or the ex- tremity of the digit or nail, only remains to mark the former existence of a digit. Sometimes, but very rarely, a normal functional digit disappears in the same manner (see No. 327). Many ruminants exhibit this condition in rudimentary outer and inner digits. Additional digits are occasionally developed, and usually exhibit the characters of the next normal digit more or less closely, oftener, however, resembling that of the opposite hand or foot than the corresponding digit of the same limb. It occasionally, but very rarely, happens that the number of digits in the opposite limb is deficient; and this has given rise to the erroneous belief in compensation of growth, hi de balancement (Geoffroy), between the two extremities. . It is by no means rare in such cases for an additional carpal bone to be intercalated between the normal bones ; it usually resembles the trapezoid bone in the hand and the second cuneiform bone in the foot. It is worthy of careful consideration that the addition of digits is far more frequent in hoofed than in unguiculate