26 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. the above description of thoracopagus. Naturally the foetuses would face each other in this and in the preparations Nos. 109 and 110. Presented by W. Parry, M.D., 1870. 108. A Human female thoracopagous twin-birth, 8 inches long (probably about the end of the fourth month of gesta- tion). Presented by Sir W. Blizard, Bart., 1811. 109. A Human female thoracopagous twin-birth, about 10^ inches long (probably at the end of the fifth month). Presented by Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., 1819. 110. A Human female thoracopagous twin-birth, about 12 inches long (about the end of the sixth month of gestation). Hunter ian. 111. Human female thoracopagous twins about full time of ges- tation. The deficiency of the anterior abdominal wall above the umbilicus is very considerable, the viscera being covered by membrane only. Hunterian. 112. A similar twin-birth, with the visceral cavities laid open to show the disposition of the viscera. The diaphragmata and pericardia are united. The hearts are quite distinct. The livers are completely fused: there are, however, two transverse fissures and two ductse venosas. The in- testines of the two communicate by a short capacious gut near the lower part of the ileum. The single cord has been laid open, and is seen to contain two distinct umbilical veins (injected) and five umbilical arteries, one foetus having a small additional one. The foetus on the left-hand side of the preparation has the disposition of the viscera reversed. The following is the history of the birth:—The first foetus pre- sented by the face and the head was not expelled until about four and twenty hours after the commencement of labour; the abdomen of the second child was then discovered. The feet of the first and afterwards those of the second child were then brought down, and so the mother was delivered, but not without considerable difficulty. In five labours this woman had malformed births three times,— these twins, a child with the feet growing from the nates, and a child with undeveloped forearms, so that the hands appeared as if growing from the extremity of the humerus; all were still-born. The above particulars are extracted from a letter from Mr. G. W. Friend to the Curator of the Hunterian Museum. Presented by G. W. Friend, Esq., 1815.