56 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. them. The pharynx is laid open from the side, and a quill is passed into it through each external auditory meatus. Presented by the Prince de Conde. 225. The anterior portion of a foetal Lamb, in which the head is represented by a pair of ears only at the anterior ex- tremity of the axis. The skin has been reflected to show the tympanic bullae, and the auditory meatus has been opened on one side to show the membrana tympani. The pharyngeal cavity has been laid open. Presented by Sir W. Blizard. 226. An injected foetal Pig, in which the axis terminates in the same manner. The pharynx is laid open, and bristles are passed on each side from the external meatus of the ear into its cavity. A circular fold of mucous membrane divides the cavity of the pharynx into two portions. The upper probably represents that portion which is normally above the soft palate. The ring seems to represent the soft palate ; it has been slit up in front. The right lung and the liver were removed, it is stated, to show more clearly the position of the remaining viscera. The intestine terminates in a blind sac in the umbilical cord. There is no anus, and the kidneys have coalesced in the median line. The lateral toes of the hind feet are abnormally developed. 227. A male foetal Pig with a pair of ill-developed external ears, and a long thin proboscis with an irregular mass of cartilage in its extremity, as the only representatives of the head and face. The right side of the back has been dissected to show that the spinal column is truncated above. A minute fistula nearly an inch below the ears communicated with the pharynx, but it has been laid open in front with that cavity. The thoracic and abdominal cavities have been exposed to show the viscera. Hunterian. Subclass II. Posterior axial arrest. Syn. Monstra Syreniformia, Monopodia, et Symeliens, Geoff. Just as fusion of the lateral organs of the face results from arrest of the facial axis, so arrest of the posterior extremity of the spine gives rise to fusion of the posterior limbs, unless their growth is likewise arrested (see No. 328). In posterior axial arrest the development of the viscera of the lower part of the