xvu DUI'LICITY. throughout their entire length, but proceeds most rapidly in the dorsal region, so that they appear to grow forwards. The so-called affinity of " soi pour soi" of Geoffroy is probably quite imaginary ■ for organs, when differentiated before union, probably in no case become united to homo- logous parts. This is well seen in preparations Mos. 120 and 123 to 130, 138, &c. It may be said to be a well-defined law that structures which are united before differentiation become double by the development of homologous structures in continuity with each other, a symmetrical double organ being formed ; whilst structures which are first developed and then united become fused irregularly with each other, giving rise to deformed and unsymmetrical structures. In such cases bone usually unites with bone, from the absorption of all intermediate tissues being effected by the pressure to which they are subjected between the two growing bones. Large portions of structures so united are com- monly deficient from absorption or atrophy. III. Cases of Heterologous union form the third sub- class. In these the parts of the two embryos are irregu- larly united, the adhesion resulting from the union of un- like structures. In most cases, at least, these malforma- tions result, like those in the two previous subclasses, from the formation of a double embryo on a single yelk. Several extremely complicated results occur from heterologous union; but they are best studied in individual cases. In some few instances of heterologous union it is possible that the second embryo may result from a second ovum, impregnated at a later date, finding its way into the cavity of the mem- branes of an earlier impregnation. No evidence can, however, be adduced in support of this view. Twins united in a common choronic or amniotic cavity are probably the normal result of the formation of a double embryo upon one yelk. There is a continuous and unbroken series of forms commencing with dichotomous and double monsters, passing through twins with a common cord and b