96 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. but the testes have not descended. One kidney is pre- served ; it is much lobulated from arrest of development. Presented by L. J. Beale, Esq., 1829. 423. The lower part of the trunk of a Human foetus at about the sixth month of gestation, with complete ectopia of the bladder. The penis is similar to that of the last prepara- tion. The kidneys and ureters are preserved ; they are much atrophied. The orifices of the latter are marked by bristles. 424. A Human female pelvis from an adult, aged 39 years. The pubic bones are separated from each other to the extent of five inches, and the interval is occupied by a ligamentous band. The woman from which this pelvis was taken was the subject of complete ectopia of the bladder (see next preparation). The pelvis has evidently been much modified by the manner in which the weight of the body is thrown upon the sacrum, the pubic bones being reduced by atrophy and their symphysis widely separated. Presented by C. Mayo, Esq. 425. A plaster cast of the bladder and external generative organs of the same individual. This cast is in the cast-room. Presented by C. Mayo, Esq. C. Of the Urino-generative Tract. The conditions commonly known as hermaphrodism are chiefly dependent on various forms of arrested development of the urino-generative tract. Those which affect the male are classified in the following pages under the terms hypospadias and androgyny, and those which affect the female under the term gynandry. Hypospadias is the slightest form of arrest in the urino- generative tract in the male, but no definite line can be drawn anywhere between the slightest degree of hypospadias and the most highly abnormal form of androgyny; a series of perfectly transitional malformations exist between these extremes. Simple hypospadias consists in the defective closure of the anterior part of the urethral canal below, so that the urethra opens at a dis- tance from the extremity of the penis, although it is continued as an open groove to its normal termination. In those animals