69 MALFORMATIONS OK THE AXIS FROM DISEASE. they are rarely closed. The brain is usually absent; it is some- times represented by a cyst filled with fluid which protrudes from the occipital region. The condition arises, probably, sometimes at least, from ulceration of the vertex in the embryo. (See No. 282.) 282. A Human male foetus at six weeks, with the brain exposed in the occipital region; a large circular ulcer occupies the occiput. When recent the edges of the ulcer were vas- cular and eroded. The spinal cord and vertebral laminae are deficient in the cervical and upper dorsal region. Presented by B. T. Lowne, Esq., 1871. 283. A Human anencephalous foetus about 2 inches long, with entire deficiency of the brain and spinal cord. The bodies of the vertebrae are exposed behind as far as the sacrum. There is curvature of the spine and ectopia of the viscera. Presented by F. Kiernan, Esq., 1871. 284. A vertical section of the head of a Human female anen- cephalous foetus. The roof of the skull and the laminae of the cervical vertebrae are entirely wanting. The brain- membranes, containing some brain-substance and a large clot, form a tumour which projects behind the head. Presented by W. Copeland, Esq. 285. A vertical section of the head of a Human female anence- phalous foetus, injected. The roof of the skull is wanting; the laminae of the first three cervical vertebrae are open. There is no trace of brain, but the base of the skull is covered by a thin vascular membrane. Hunterian. 286. The other half of the same. Hunterian. 287. The abdomen of the same opened in front, with the prin- cipal viscera removed, to show the much lobulated kid- neys, a condition of arrested development. Hunterian. 288. A preparation similar to No. 285. Presented by Sir W. Blizard. 289. The skull and vertebral column of a Human anencephalous foetus. The frontals, parietals, and the upper part of the squama occipitalis are very narrow from before back- wards, and these bones are much depressed, so that they lie upon the anterior part of the base of the skull. The supraoccipital is absent, so that the opening is an