79 ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 3.28. A foetal Pig, in which the development of the posterior limbs and pelvic girdle has been considerably arrested. The femora are deficient from atrophy, so that the limbs are only attached to the trunk by skin and ligamentous tissue. The abdomen has been opened below to show the extremely diminutive condition of the pelvis and pelvic viscera. The hind legs terminate in blunt points, and each has a very imperfect hoof. Hunterian. 329. A foetal Puppy, in which the development of all four limbs has been arrested. The specimen has been much altered by having been dried previously to being placed in spirit, but is of extreme interest, as it exhibits a very rare con- dition, a patagium extending from the flank to the elbow on either side. Mus. Brit. 330. The skeleton of a Human foetus, at about the sixth month of gestation, with the radii and thumbs wanting. The head is slightly hydrocephalic. All the bones are ab- normally slender, especially the clavicles, which are con- siderably bent. The ossification of the sternum is very irregular and imperfect, as is also that of the pubic sym- physis. Presented by Erasmus Wilson, Esq., 1869. 331. The skeleton of a Human seven-months' foetus, with total deficiency of the right arm. The scapula and clavicle are, however, present. The left arm is represented by a cartilaginous humerus, a slender ulnar, and a single digit, which consists of a metacarpal bone and three phalanges united by cartilage and ligament. Presented by Sir W. Blizard, 1811. 332. A Human male foetus, 7 inches in length, about the fifth month of gestation, with the left arm arrested and atro- phied. The arm consists entirely of soft tissues, and has a three-lobed extremity; one of the lobes terminates in a slender thread-like process. The remains of the limb are attached to the glenoid cavity by connective tissue. The great pectoral muscle ends in the connective tissue of the limb. A portion of the integument has been re- moved to show the conditions described above. Mus. Brookes.