28 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. of an auricle and ventricle. The ventricle gives an aorta to either foetus, and is fused with the base of the ventricle of the lower heart. The lower heart has two auricles. The apices of both ventricles are turned towards the front of the preparation. The specimen was so brittle that the exact distribution of the vessels could not be made out. c. Pleuropagus, Forster. Syn. Dicephalus, Gurlt. Honstres doubles Sysomiens, Geoff'. In Pleuropagus two axes are adherent side by side. Such ab- normal twins have hitherto been called dicephalus, from their external resemblance to dichotomous conditions of the anterior extremity of the axis. In these forms, however, the whole axis is double. They are transitional between anterior dichotomy and parazygosis. The median limbs are frequently fused toge- ther, and are sometimes reduced to mere tubercles. 118. A Human pleuropagous twin-birth, about the end of the third month (length 4£ inches), with the mesial (posterior) arms and legs fused together as far as the carpus and tarsus. It is apparently female, but the organs of generation are very imperfectly formed. This specimen is transitional between thoracopagus and the more marked forms of pleuropagus. Purchased, 1870. 119. Human male pleuropagous twins. The median (posterior) arms form a mere tubercle upon the back. There are no median legs, although there are two axes even to the ex- tremity of the sacrum. The median innominate bones are absent. 120. The bones and ligaments of the united mesial arms of an exactly similar foetus. A small portion of the broad sternum, formed by the union of two sterna, supports a pair of clavicles closely pressed together; distinct and flattened in front, but united behind. These articulate with the two acromia of a very remarkable double scapula, and are also united with the glenoid cavity by ligament, a piece of cartilage intervening. The scapula is symmetrical, and presents two spines and two acromia; one of the latter has been cut through and turned back to show the maimer in which