80 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE LIMBS. b. Peromelia, Gurlt. Syn. Perochirus and Achirus, Gurlt. Hemimele and Ectromele, Oeoff. When the development of a limb, or a portion of a limb, is arrested and the arrested portion undergoes atrophy a stump is frequently left like that of an amputated limb. The process is apparently the same as that which is seen in a less complete stage in No. 309, 327, and 328. The remains of the atrophied limb are usually apparent as a papilla upon the stump, showing that the ordinary view, that such conditions arise from intra- uterine amputation, is fallacious. Those who suppose the am- putation to arise from ligature by the umbilical cord seem to forget that the cord is a growing structure, and that it is so fre- quently wound around the neck and body that amputations, not only of the limbs hut of the head, would be frequent, and slighter effects of such constriction would occur in numerous cases. No definite line can be drawn between the conditions classed under the terms ischnomelia, peromelia, and amelia. Transitional con- ditions are of frequent occurrence. 333. A Human female foetus, about the fifth month of gestation. The left leg is deficient from the knee. It presents the appearance of the stump of an amputation. There is also defective development of the face and left anterior ex- tremity. The left hand at first sight appears to have but three digits, but on closer inspection two of these are seen to be double. The manner in which these fingers are flexed and adhere together throws considerable light upon the condition exhibited by Nos. 352 and, 353. 334. The right leg of a foetus, of which the other three extre- mities exhibit the condition known as intra-uterine am- putation (see Nos. 335, 336, 337). Only a single toe is developed. The tibia is represented by a large mass of cartilage, and a small cartilaginous nodule represents the bones of the foot. The leg is much shortened and bent. A section has been made to show the cartilages. Arrest of differentiation of the same kind, affecting only a portion of a segment in the limb, would give rise to fusion of the upper part of the bones in the forearm or leg, either above or below. A very interesting specimen of fusion of the upper part of the radius