59 AK11EST OF DEVELOPMENT. The tissues are all abnormal; great hypertrophy of the connec- tive tissue is frequent. The neural canal is seldom normal; it is more frequently absent or open, or its cavity communicates with large cysts. Parts of the skeleton may be tolerably well formed; sometimes there are four imperfect limbs, or there may be one or two more or less well-formed limbs only. The alimentary canal is always in a very imperfect condition from obvious arrest. They appear to be always twins to perfect foetuses. Nos. 135 and 137, examples of encysted foetuses, exhibit precisely similar conditions. 238. A Human male foetus without any head or heart. The whole body is very oedematous, and has been much dis- torted by the manner in-which it was originally suspended. Three extremities are better formed than the remainder of the body; the left anterior extremity is, however, a mere shapeless mass. The spine has been exposed behind, and its laminae removed on one side to show the cord. It has a single curve with its convexity backwards, and consists almost entirely of cartilage, but is otherwise normal. 239. The right half of an acephalous acardiac foetus, which has been divided longitudinally in the median line. The ver- tebral column is truncated at either extremity, and con- sists of twenty-two segments, with a large spheroidal bony nucleus in each segment, except the first three. The neural canal is closed in by laminae; it contains a cord, and its upper extremity is filled up and closed by a fibrous mass contain- ing a small cyst. A proboscis ending in an ovate knob terminates the axis in front externally. The thoracic and abdominal cavities are not separated from each other. The upper and back part of the body-cavity is filled with a dense mass of connective tissue closely united to the spine, and probably representing the lungs, with an empty cavity in front bounded anteriorly by a small sternum, pro- bably pericardial. The lower part contains one great median kid- ney, a pair of ureters, and a urinary bladder. The external sexual organs are too imperfect to denote the sex. There are apparently no internal generative organs. There is no liver. The intestine com- mences blindly in a sac in the cord and terminates in a rectum, which is impervious. The integument is much hypcrtrophicd. The arm is very imperfect, and is terminated by a single nail. The posterior extremity is furnished with thrco toes, and is much more normal in form than the arm. The polvis is apparently fairly developed. 4