63 ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT, 250. A female Human fetus, probably at about the seventh month, with deficiency of the abdominal parietes. There is a large visceral tumour covered by transparent mem- branous walls. The tumour contains the liver and the greater part of the intestinal canal. There is also arrested development of the forearms. The hands are placed at right angles to the limb. There are but three fingers on the left and four on the right hand. The left leg is shortened. There is curvature of the spine and spina bifida in the lumbar region. Hunterian. 251. A portion of the trunk of a female Human fetus, with dis- placement of the viscera and deficiency of the anterior abdominal wall. The liver and kidneys are dispropor- tionately large. The abdominal parietes immediately above the umbilicus are very thick and loaded with fat, but over the liver they are thin and membranous. Presented by Dr. C. H. Bennett, 1868. c. Deficiency of the diaphragm. 252. The trunk of a full-time male fetus with deficiency of the left half of the diaphragm. The anterior wall of the thorax and abdomen has been removed. The thoracic viscera have been pushed over to the right side by the intrusion of the abdominal viscera into the thorax. 253. A male Human fetus with deficiency of the left side of the diaphragm and hernia of the intestines into the thorax, with consequent displacement of the thoracic viscera. The thoracic and abdominal cavities are laid open. The abdominal wall was deficient in front. Presented by T. Blizard, Esq. 254. The thorax and viscera of a full-time Human fetus exhibit- ing a similar condition. 255. A male Human fetus at about the fourth month of gesta- tion, with deficiency of the diaphragm and anterior ab- dominal wall, and considerable arrest of growth of the left lower extremity. The thoracic viscera are depressed on the left side, and there is lateral curvature of the spine. The case is described in the ' London Medical and Phy- sical Journal/ vol. lii. p. 367. Presented by J. C. Yeatman, Esq.