DUPLICITY. 33 at the inner side of the nostril is a deep Assure, probably the re- mains of the nasal cavity; this fissure is marked by a purple glass rod. The left upper alveolus has been exposed by the removal of tho gum, and is very distinct. One of the largest of tho fatty lobes, which make up the bulk of the tumour, has been cut through to show its structure. It consists of firm vascular fat with an atheromatous centre. A small cyst appears at its upper part. On the right side there is a piece of adherent placenta, and just below it is a loose, pendent, lobulated mass about an inch and a half in diameter. As one of its lobes felt very hard it was opened, and was found to contain a compact mass of bones, fifty-nine in number (see No. 132). The skin of the tumour is soft, vascular, and covered with lanugo. The lobe which contained the bones presents three indistinctly separate hard white papilla?, something like aborted digits. The most remarkable point in this specimen is that lips and alveoli only are well developed upon the tumour, as if its position had determined the nature of the part developed. There can be no reasonable doubt that the tumour consists of the remains of a second embryo. 132. Fifty-nine ossicles from the tumour in the last preparation. They are most complex in form, and were closely packed together. There is but one which resembles any normal bone, the first of the series; it appears like the lamina of one of the cervical vertebrae. 133. The superior maxillary bone and a portion of the malar bone from the same, taken from the right side of the tumour. These belonged to the foetus and not to the pa- rasite growth. It is normal, although it supported a por- tion of the tumour. B. By Inclusion. Syn. Cryptodidymus, Gurlt. Foetus in Fcetu. Sometimes instead of a second embryo becoming impacted in the visceral arches of another, it becomes enclosed within its ab- dominal cavity. The included embryo in these cases is contained in a cyst, and connected with it by an imperfect funis. Under these circumstances it may live and grow for many years. It is always excessively defective and much deformed. Both the including subject and foetus are usually male. D