57 ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. abdomen is very defective; the rectum is usually absent, and the colon is greatly enlarged and terminates in a blind extremity. The posterior extremity of the axis is curved back, and has marked indications of arrested growth. The innominate bones are fused below as far as the acetabula, and the femora, when present, are rotated outwards until the knees look backwards; hence the limbs are fused by their external aspect. The lower extremities of the femora may be united into a single symmetrical bone; the tibiae are usually fused into a single bone, which may either terminate in a blunt stump or support a compound foot, consisting of more or less of the normal pair united by their outer sides, with the heels turned forward. The united limbs are usually curved, so that they are concave in front. The term sympodia has been used to designate this condition; foetuses so malformed are said to be syreniform. Sometimes one limb is entirely or partially wanting. When it is wanting or inconspicuous, the term mo- nopodia has been used; the developed limb is usually rotated as in sympodia. a. Sympodia. 228. A Human male foetus at about the seventh month of ges- tation, with defective development of the posterior ex- tremity of the axis, with rotation and fusion of the lower limbs. The foot is formed of the inner portion of both feet, and presents four toes, the two inner toes of each foot. The external sexual organs are extremely defective. The abdominal cavity has been laid open to show the di- lated condition of the colon. 229. A similar foetus in which the fused posterior extremities terminate in a frvto-lobed stump. One lobe is turned back laterally; it is considerably longer than the other. Presented by J. Stringfield, Esq. 230. A similar foetus in which the fused limbs ended in a single rounded stump. The limb has been dissected to show the arrangement of the muscles. The external vasti form a single muscle behind; the sartorii are straight, and run down the outer sides of the stump. The two long ad- ductors are close together in front. The tibia terminates in a long blunt cartilaginous point.