ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. 11 the intermaxillaries, which are separated by a fissure on either side from the maxillae. Presented by Sir W. Feryusson, Bart., 1865. 146. A portion of the skull of a new-born child, with considerable divergence of the pterygoid process and palate-bones. There is entire deficiency of the bony palate, and the maxillae are widely separated from each other and from the premaxillaries. Presented by Sir W. Fergusson, Bart. 147. A portion of an adult skull in which there is a cleft nearly an inch wide between the lateral halves of the bony palate. The vomer is bent over to the left side, and is united to the left half of the palate. The alveoli are very defective. There are only two teeth on the left side. Presented by Sir W. Fergusson, Bart. 148. The intermaxillary bones from eight cases- of cleft palate in infants. Presented by Sir W. Fergusson, Bart. 149. The intermaxillary bones from two cases of cleft palate in children. Presented by Sir W. Fergusson, Bart. 150. The intermaxillary bones from a case of cleft palate in an adult. Presented by Sir W. Fergusson, Bart. 151. A dissection of the tensor and levator palati muscles and the neighbouring parts in a case of cleft palate in the adult. The soft palate only is apparently cleft in this case, but the bones are implicated slightly, although to a much less extent than in the foregoing preparations. The preparation is of special in- terest because it shows the manner in which the levator palati and palato-pharyngei muscles keep the edges of the soft palate apart. The upper fibres of the superior constrictor, which act as their antagonist, are unusually well developed. This is the original dissection on which Sir W. Fergusson founded his operation of Staphylorophy, which consists in dividing the fibres of the levator palati, palato-pharyngei, and palato-glossi. The preparation is minutely described in his original description of the operation, published in 1845, ' Trans. Med.-Chir. Soc' vol. xviii. p. 273-301. Presented by Sir W. Fergusson, Bart. 152. The head of a young Lion born in the Zoological Gardens, March 1862, with cleft palate and arrested growth of the septum narium. The litter consisted of two, this and another in the same condition. The alveoli of both jaws