42 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. are arrested also. Several other Lion-cubs bom in the Gardens have been similarly affected. Purchased. 153. The skull of a new-born Calf with a cleft between the max- illary bones, and defect of the palate-bones and pterygoid processes. The whole skull is shorter and broader than the normal type. There is considerable shortening and deformity of the mandible. Hunterian. 154. The skull of a similar Calf with more considerable shorten- ing of the whole axis, and extreme curvature of the rami of the mandible. Presented by T. Wormald, Esq. 155. A portion of the head of a Human infant, with arrested development of the ethmoid bone, absence of foramina in the cribriform plate, of the nasal septum and premax- illaries. There is a single median nostril and a deep cleft between the lateral halves of the upper lip. In this case the foramen ovale of the heart was patent, the testes had not descended, and there were six digits on each hand and one foot. (See Nos. 308-310.) Presented by R. Partridge, Esq. 156. The head of a female Human foetus, with a broad cleft in the upper lip continuous with the nostrils, arrest of the septum narium, and entire deficiency of the bony palate. There is also apparently considerable deficiency of the skull in the occipital region, similar to that exhibited in No. 279. Hunterian. 157. The head of a Human foetus with arrest of the ethmoid bone and nasal septum. The eyes are approximated. There is no palate. The nostrils are absent, and the upper lip is deeply cleft in the mesial line. A section has been made through the mandible and tongue to exhibit the condition of the roof of the mouth and the nasal cavity. Presented by Sir W. Blizard. 158. A portion of the head of a Human foetus with shortening of the whole cranio-facial axis. The right eye is abnor- mally small, and the left is deficient: its eyelids are wanting, and a mere depression marks the position of the orbit. The palate and the upper lip are entirely wanting. The maxillary and naso-frontal processes remain distinct. The external ears present numerous abnormal lobules. The base of the skull has been dissected to show the