ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 50 bent at right angles to the cranial axis, and the cribriform plate forms part of the floor of the brain-case, the whole brain being pressed forward by the contraction of the posterior portion of the skull. In cases of this character the ethmoid bone and nasal capsule are also often deficient. These form a connecting link between epencephalic and prostho-epencephalic arrest. 194. A longitudinal vertical section of ^he head of a foetal Lamb, with deficiency of the lower jaw and mouth. The bullae of the ears and malar bones are fused beneath. The facial and cranial axis are in the same line. The median struc- tures of the brain are all more or less defective behind, and the lateral halves are fused in the median line. The cerebral hemispheres, corpus callosum, and fornix are normal. The eyes were approximated and directed down- wards. The pharynx has not been preserved, but was probably similar to that in the following preparations. Presented by Sir E. Home, Bart. 195. The skeleton of the other half of the same head. The fusion of the squamosal bones, zygoma, malar, and superior max- illary bones across the mesial line below is well seen. The basisphenoid and presphenoid bones are absent, and the basioccipital is narrowed in front. Presented by Sir E. Home, Bart. 196. The head and neck of a foetal Lamb, with deficiency of the mandible and fusion of the ears. The facial is at right angles to the cranial axis, so that the ethmoid forms part of the floor of the skull-case. The side of the skull has been partially removed to show the base from within. A section has been made through the nasal cavity, and the pharynx has been laid open. A purple glass rod marks each of the following:—The optic foramina, foramina ro- tunda, and the tongue, a hollow organ situated above the anterior part of the pharynx. The only external opening of the pharynx is by the Eustachian tubes and external auditory meatuses. The membrana tympani were absent. Blue glass rods mark the sphe- noidal fissure, the foramen ovale, the external auditory meatus, and the anterior condyloid foramen. A white rod has been placed in the jugular foramen. Hunterian.