ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 14 innominate bones are less developed, so that the median leg was probably either rudimentary or wanting. The accessory innominate bones consist chiefly of the tuberosities and posterior rami of the ischia; these are united below by os- sified fascia, which extends to the arch of the pubis. There are two penes, urethra, and bladders, and but two testes. Each blad- der has a single ureter opening into its outer side. The right kidney is reduced to a hard fibrous button-shaped mass, about three quarters of an inch in diameter ; the right bladder is much thinner than the left, and its cavity is occupied by a fungous mass of granulations. The muscles of the bulbs of the urethra? arise partly from the additional and partly from the normal pelvic bones. The right prostate is very small, and the urethra of this side is im- pervious where it passes between the pelvic bones. b. Schizorhachis. Under this term all cases of posterior dichotomy of the spinal column have been included, except those in which the mal- formation extends to the head and appears externally, and those already described as dipygus. Dichotomy almost always extends to the occiput, and usually affects the basioccipital bone slightly. A single preparation shows dichotomy of the lumbar region only. a. Unsymmetrical Schizorhachis. 68. The posterior portion of a foetal Pig, with posterior dicho- tomy of the spinal column commencing in the lumbar region. The right half of the double axis and its limbs are much smaller than the left. This preparation has been dissected to show the viscera. The intestine and stomach are drawn up. There are two uri- nary bladders ; that belonging to the accessory axis has two ureters and two minute kidneys. There is a large suprarenal capsule on the right side. The left axis has only a single, much elongated kidney on its left side. The aorta bifurcates to supply the second axis. /3. Symmetrical Schizorhachis. 69. A foetal Pig with dichotomy of the whole spinal column and four distinct anterior extremities. The thoracic and ab- dominal cavities have been opened to show the heart and