98 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS 01' THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. The whole structure of the generative organs of these " Free Martins " is such that, even after dissection, Hunter believed them to be Cows with testes instead of ovaries f. This is not the case; but cysts (cysts of Morgagni) frequently occur in the peri- toneal fold which embraces the upper extremity of the cornua of the hypertrophied Miillerian ducts, and the epididymis is sometimes separated from the extremely atrophied testis, giving rise to this appearance. The occurrence of these imperfect twin males has given rise to the belief that all female cattle born as twins with males are imperfect: this, however, is not so, as a perfect female is sometimes produced with a male at a birth. There is not, however, any evidence of the existence of andro- gynous Bulls which are not f' Free Martins;" but attention has probably not been paid to this subject. Gynandry includes those cases in which the female organs appear like those of the male; it frequently occurs in the human female, and the extent of the malformation is considerably less than in Androgyny. The vagina almost always remains as a narrow canal; but the uterus is commonly well developed. The clitoris attains a very large size and strongly resembles the male penis. In infants it is impossible to distinguish between a hypospadiac male in which the malformation is extreme and a gynandrous female without examining the internal organs. Atresia of the anus sometimes accompanies this malformation, and occasionally the rectum opens into the urino-genital sac, giving rise to a cloaca. * In the Human subject %. a. Hypospadias. 426. A lateral section of a pelvis of a Human male six months' foetus with extreme hypospadias. The urethra opens at the root of the penis; it is marked by a bristle. The scrotum is deeply cleft; the left testis is seen in the in- f See ' The Works of John Hunter,' by J. F. Palmer, vol. iv. p. 34; and Hunter's ' Animal (Economy.' + In this Series the malformations of the Human subject have been placed first because they are more readily comprehended by the student, and throw much light on similar conditions in animals.