INTRODUCTION. XVI a revenir au type primitif de l'espece" *. Lereboullet states that this condition of the germinal disk gives rise to the formation of a more or less completely double primitive groove and notochord, although the tendency to revert to the primitive type often causes the two grooves to coalesce at one or both extremities, or throughout their entire length. II. The second Subclass, Homologous union, consists of monsters formed by the union of two distinct embryos adherent by the fusion of homologous parts ; each rib of the one, for instance, becomes fused with the corresponding rib of the other, and the other organs are all similarly united. The fact that such embryos originate in all cases upon a single yelk has been strongly insisted upon by most teratologists since the time of Vrolik, and double embryos on one yelk have been observed in numerous instances. Whenever the structures formed from the inner layer of the blastoderm, the intestinal canal and liver, are continuous, as they are in every case in the collection as well as in nearly if not in all the cases on record, it is impossible to conceive that the embryos could have originated in any other manner, since the adhesion of the parietes of the embryos by their external surfaces could not account for the continuity of the alimentary canal. M. Camille Dareste believes, however, that cases of homologous union occur between embryos formed on separate yelks, oc- casionally at least. In homologous union the dorsal groove, instead of being only partially double, as in dichotomy, is completely double, and the two embryos are formed so close to each other that the visceral laminae become united. As union takes place before the differentiation of distinct organs oc- curs, these are formed in continuity with each other. The differentiation is probably gradual; the ribs, for instance, instead of growing forwards from the spine and meeting in the mesial line, are probably gradually evolved from the cells of the visceral laminae. This evolution is continuous * Comptes Rendus, 1855, pp. 885 and 1029.