ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. 66 opened out by the pressure of the tumour. The tumour consists of the membrana reuniens superior, skin, connective tissue, and the substance of the cord spread out into a cyst, and almost converted into fibrous tissue by hypertrophy of its connective elements. Sometimes the tumour becomes pedunculated by pressure, which the perfect laminae above and below exert upon it during its rapid increase. It is common in the lumbo-sacral region, but extremely rare in the back and neck, except when ac- companied by internal hydrocephalus and considerable malforma- tion of the skull. In the latter case the occipital bone exhibits considerable deficiency. When dropsy occurs at a later period of development, it gives rise to the formation of an enormous cyst on the occiput or vertex, epicephalocele; and when it occurs to- wards the close of intra-uterine life it produces distention of the skull and great enlargement of its neural arch, hydrocephalus. a. Spina bifida. 265. A portion of the lumbar and sacral region of a new-born Child affected with spina bifida. The surface of the tumour is ulcerated. From Sir A. Cooper's Museum. 266. A vertical section of the lower part of the back and sacrum of a new-born Child with spina bifida. In this specimen the chorda equina is incorporated with the walls of the tumour. From Sir A. Cooper's Museum. 267. A similar specimen with the spinal canal opened from behind. Hunterian. 268. A vertical section of the lumbar and sacral region of a Child affected with spina bifida. The lower extremity of the cord is incorporated with the walls of the tumour, from which the lumbar nerves appear to arise. This pre- paration and the last, No. 267, were taken from children born of the same parents. Hunterian. 269. A sacral spina bifida opened from behind; the sacral nerves have been cut through at their junction with the wall of the cyst. 270. The lumbar vertebras and sacrum of a new-born Child with spina bifida, showing the defective condition of the neural arches. Hunterian. 271. A dried preparation, consisting of the bones and ligaments