24 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE AXIS. The following viscera are seen in this preparation :—The stomach of the superior foetus is displayed at the upper part of the mica, with the duodenum, the remains of the liver, the jejunum, and ileum. Near the middle of the latter, and connected with it by about three quarters of an inch of intestine, is a portion of the large cloacal sac from the inferior foetus. The accompanying description of the liver occurs in M. Maunoir's paper (I.e.):—" An enormous liver covers the whole intestinal mass, and appears through the transparent membranous abdominal wall, between the laminae of which a single umbilical cord [probably the umbilical vein only is here alluded to] passes in a serpentine course and enters the liver." The liver, anterior abdominal wall, and cord have unfortunately not been preserved. The ileum bifurcates about an inch from its inferior extremity and opens into two distinct caeca, each having a short vermiform appendix. The large intestines are double : that on the right side of the preparation belongs to the right side of the monster ; it is opened to show its blind termination above the uterus. The left large intestine belonged to the left inferior portion; it termi- nates in an anus. The kidneys of the right side are preserved; they are adherent throughout their entire length. The left kidneys are wanting, but are stated to have had but one ureter between them. The blad- ders, urethras, and external sexual organs on both sides are normal. There is a uterus on each side J the right one being considerably larger than the normal foetal uterus. Presented by the Medico-Chirurgical Society. 103. The skeleton of a half-grown female Cat, with an imperfect accessory pair of innominate bones occupying the pubic symphysis; an accessory pair of limbs are attached to them. Although the axial parts of this pelvis and all the remainder of a second animal are absent, there can be little doubt but that these bones were developed from a second embryo. If the axis had been developed an opisthozygous twin monster would have resulted. The second pair of limbs are short, distorted, and ankylosed to the pelvis, probably from disuse. Their patellae are absent. The Cat was caught in a trap in a wood, where it had been living in a wild state. Presented by W. B. Tegetmeier, Esq., 1867. 104. The bones of the pelvis and inferior extremities of a Sheep, with the pelvic bones and posterior extremities of an im-