49 ARREST OF DEVELOPMENT. ear-capsulcs is sometimes arrested. In the less marked forms (agnathia) only the mandibular arch fails, but the posterior por- tion of the cranial cavity is contracted. In the more marked forms (synotia) the tympanic cavities coalesce, the hyoid arch is constantly present, and the mandibular is always wanting. a. Agnathia. The brain-case is slightly contracted behind, especially im- mediately in front of tlit ear-capsules, the mandible is absent. The eyes and ears are approximated below, but the mouth and pharyngeal cavities are continuous. 192. The head of a foetal Pig with total deficiency of the mandi- ble. The eyes and ears are slightly approximated below. Presented by R. Semple, Esq., 1820. 193. A similar specimen. The roof of the skull has been re- moved to show the reduced size of the brain-case and cranial axis behind. b. Synotia. Syn. Monstrea Otocephalies, Geoff. The tympanic cavities are united below, the tympanic and squa- mosal bones being fused together, although the periotic capsules retain their normal position. This condition is explained by the view that the tympanic and squamosal bones are integumental ossifications, as has been pointed out by Mr. W. K. Parker. Their position is most variable in malformations, whilst the primitive ear always retains its normal relations with the axis. The external ears arc more or less fused together a little above the hyoid bone; there is usually only a single meatus exteruus, and this communicates with the pharynx by an open spiracle. The mouth is always completely separated from the pharynx by the downward growth of the suborbital (maxil- lary) arches. The lungs are commonly well formed, and are inflated at birth by the passage of air through the spiracle or spiracles, for there are two when the external meatus is double. Sometimes the cranial and facial axes remain in their normal relation with each other in animals, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid remaining nearly vertical; but sometimes the facial is