11 DUPLICITY. There is a single median eye situated behind a triangular opening formed by the fusion of two pair of eyelids. Hunterian. 56. The skull of a similar Calf, in which the fission has extended somewhat further back, so that there are two distinct median orbits. The median malar bones are fused into a single bone; they support a small mass of bone, which articulates by a very imperfect joint with the median rami of the mandibles. The median rami of the mandi- bles are united by suture, and are much thickened and distorted. The base of the skull exhibits a single basi- occipital and a bifurcated basis phenoid with its two median alisphenoids united. The exoccipitals, supraoc- cipital, and temporals are single, except that there are traces of median squamosals. The other bones of the head and face are completely double. 57. A similar skull, in which, however, dichotomy extends as far back as the basioccipital. In this skull there are two supraoccipital and a median external auditory meatus; the periotic bones of the median ear are double; both faces are distinct and well formed. Hunterian. 58. The brain of a Calf with anterior dichotomy, probably from No. 55. All the parts in front of the pons are double. The pons, medulla, and cerebellum are single. Hunterian. 59. A portion of the brain of a Calf double as far back as the foramen magnum, probably from the same animal as No. 57. It is stated in Hunter's MS. dissections that all the cerebral nerves were double, that the eighth pair were double at their origin, but that the median eighth pair became fused and terminated in their passage through the skull in connective tissue. Hunterian. 60. A portion of the skull and the brain of the Sheep with di- chotomy extending as far back as the basioccipital bone. 61. The tongues, hyoid bones, larynx, trachea, and oesophagus of a double-faced Calf, probably from the same animal as Nos. 55 and 58, dissected. The double hyoid arch has its median cornua distinct, close together, and cartila- ginous. - The median pair of tonsils are seen fused to- gether between the two tongues. It is stated in Hunter's