DUPLICITY. 35 show its internal structure. It has no head, its trunk is very much curved, and possesses four misshapen limbs. It was connected with the cyst by a large funnel-shaped umbilical cord, which contains a coil of intestine. Mr. Young states that " when the foetus was taken from the cyst it was covered with sebaceous matter, and when this was re- moved, it appeared as rosy and healthy as if it were alive." At the uppor extremity of the trunk a fibrous mass is seen with a portion of the cyst adherent to it; this is said by Mr. Young to have been " of a dark-red colour when first taken from the cyst, and abundantly supplied with blood." It is exactly similar to the mass usually representing the brain in anen cephalous foetuses. That part of the foetus which corresponds to the frontal region bears a narrow line of fine hair upon it; this forms a long lock on either side. The vertebral column consists of eleven blocks of bone, re- presenting as many vertebral centres. The posterior aspect of these is covered by a membrane; there are no remains of the spinal cord, and no traces of laminae. The skin on either side of the vertebras is covered with short fine black hairs. The sacrum is rudimentary, and entirely formed of cartilage. One of the ver- tebral bodies in the dorsal region seems also to be entirely formed of cartilage. The vertebral column is surmounted by several masses of bone and cartilage, which probably represent the base of the skull and facial bones. The axis is doubled almost at right angles in the dorsal and lumbar regions. A small openiug, in which a bristle is inserted, is seen in the mesial line at the most anterior part of the foetus ; it is apparently a vessel, probably a median carotid. In front of the hair, at the anterior part of the foetus, is a frontn) < proboscis, considerably enlarged and perforated at its free extre- mity : it is extremely similar to the same structure in cases of cranial arrest. (See Nos. 162 et seq.) The body-cavity is not divided by any diaphragm, and is almost filled by a saccular dilatation of the intestine, which forms a blind sac in front of the sacrum ; there is no anus. A blind coil of intes- tine fills the cavity of the umbilical cord and communicates with the main intestinal cavity at the umbilicus. The whole was filled, according to Mr. Young, with a dark fluid resembling meconium, although there is apparently no vestige of a liver. In the upper part of the trunk the lungs may be distinctly seen, compressed against the vertebral column. No other internal organs have been developed. The external generative organs are probably those of an imperfect male. The penis is rudimentary, perforated at its l) 2