83 MALFORMATIONS FROM DISEASE. subject is discussed at length in Mr. W. Adams's Jacksonian Prize Essay on Club-foot, chapter xii. p. 195. 343. The right leg and foot of a Human infant at birth, with talipes varus, dissected to show the muscles. Presented by W. Adams, Esq., 1864. 344. A similar preparation. Presented by W. Adams, Esq., 1864. 345. A similar preparation. Presented by W. Adams, Esq., 1864. 345 a. Two Human foetal left astragali. The upper specimen is deformed, and was taken from the foot of a new-born in- fant with talipes varus. The other specimen is normal. Presented by W. Adams, Esq., 1864. 345 b. The tendo Achillis, tibialis posticus, flexor longns, and tibialis anticus tendons of a Child, a year old, that had been operated on successfully for club-foot at six weeks. The line of junction between the old and new tendon could only be traced with difficulty, especially in the tibialis anticus and posticus tendons. In the former there seemed to be about half an inch, and in the latter three eighths of an inch of new tendon. In the tendo Achillis rather more than half an inch of new tendon could be recognized. The flexor longus does not appear to have been divided. Presented by W. Adams, Esq., 1864. 3 16. The right leg and foot of an adult Human subject, with extreme talipes varus, injected and dissected to show the muscles, vessels, and nerves. The contracted condition of the plantar fascia is well seen. 347. The right leg and foot of a Human adult with congenital talipes varus, dissected. Presented by R. Partridge, Esq., 1866. 348. The left leg and foot of the same subject, dissected, to show the bones and ligaments. Presented by R. Partridge, Esq., 1866. 349. The right leg and foot of a Woman, aged 30, with talipes varus, dissected and dried. This specimen is minutely described in Mr. W. Adams's Prize Essay, p. 1G3. It is of oxtremo interest, becauso there is no doubt about its having been congenital in its origin. The oblique position of the os calcis, the vertical deviation of the u 2