ARREST 01' DEVELOPMENT. 43 imperfect condition of the middle ear and tympanic bones. The right Eustachian tube is marked by a black bristle; it is a mere groove open below. 159. A vertical section of the head of a Human foetus in which the palate is entirely deficient. A groove above the mouth, marked by a bristle, represents the nasal cavity. The cribriform plate of the ethmoid is very small, its vertical plate is absent. The palato-pterygoid and max- illary process (suborbital arch) are absent. The eye is abnormally small. The external ear is represented by a small lobule; there is no meatus. The cavity of the skull occupied by the middle cerebral lobe is much enlarged; the remainder of the cranial cavity is correspondingly contracted. B. Prosencephala arrest. Syn. Cyclops, Ourlt. Rhinocephalus, Cyclocephalus, Ethmocephalus, Geoff. W. Vrolik* first ascribed the origin of the following forms to arrest of development of the anterior portion of the investing cartilage of the notochord; and there can be little doubt that this is the most satisfactory explanation yet arrived at. The trabecular arch and the structures arising from it are always absent or defective. The nasal septum is either entirely absent, or is represented by a defective vomer. The whole ethmoid bone is usually wanting. There are traces of inferior spongy bones in the frontal proboscis, a process arising from the union of the naso-frontal processes. There is sometimes a single nostril, sometimes a pair beneath the eyes, between the united sub- ocular arches, when a defective nasal cavity exists between the maxillae. More frequently the proboscis is perforated by a nostril, and contains a cavity extending back to the skull, in which a pair of cartilaginous spongy bones are situated. In such cases the maxillary bones are very massive and are fused in the median line. The orbits are united into a single cavity, and the eyes .are more or less perfectly fused, sometimes forming a single globe. The brain exhibits unmistakable signs of arrest. * Over dun Aard on Oorsprong dor Cyclopie: Auiatcrd. 1834. MuUer's Arch. 1836.