XVIU INTRODUCTION. placenta, or a common amnion and distinct cords, to those which have separate amniotic sacs but a common chorion. It is almost as difficult to conceive that two amniotic sacs from distinct yelks should unite by their edges as it is that two embryos should unite by their visceral laminae when enclosed in distinct amnia. Moreover, the yelk-cap- sule is probably persistent, and a seam at least would be apparent if the amnia were fused at a later period of deve- lopment by the absorption of those portions by which they are in contact. M. Dareste believes that the amniotic sacs produced from distinct yelks become fused together occa- sionally by their edges, and M. Broca has recorded several cases in which two amnia formed from distinct yelks com- municate or form a single amnion *. It would be of extreme importance to discover whether, in such cases, some traces at least of the primitive septum do not remain. The formation of double monsters may probably be looked upon, therefore, as an arrested attempt at something very like zooid reproduction, perhaps due to the germinal disk in its earliest state undergoing division, analogous to that which occurs as a normal mode of reproduction amongst the lower forms of life by a kind of reversion to a primitive type. This view will doubtless commend itself to some minds on mature consideration, although it may perhaps appear improbable to others. If two complete primitive grooves occur, any. arrest in the growth of the blastoderm between them, or their too close approximation at their first formation, would obviously give rise to the subsequent union of the resulting embryos. These views are ably expounded by Dr. B. Schultze, in his essay ' Ueber anomale Duplicitat der Axenorgane'f, where he proposes a subdivision of double malformations on theoretical grounds, which is essentially the same as that adopted in the following pages. * C. Dareste, "Sur les ceufs a double germe," Ann. Sc. Nat. 1862, t. xvii. pp. 48 & 49. t Virchow's Archiv, Bd. xvii. p. 479.