DISEASES OF THE GUMS. 583 membrane from the gums to the cheek, and point about the angle of the jaw or on the cheek, and after opening leave an intractable sinus. In the upper jaw it some- times also tracks along the hard palate and may lead to necrosis of the bone. It is attended with severe throbbing pain, deep-seated swelling, and often great oedema of the face and eyelid. Treatment,—The o:ffending tooth should be extracted, hot fomentations and bread-poultices applied inside the mouth, and the sinus divided transversely from within the mouth to prevent an external opening being formed. If a sinus exists the carious tooth or dead bone must be removed before it will heal; scraping the sinus will then facilitate the healing. Epulis.—This term, though formerly employed to sig- nify any tumour growing upon the gums, is now usually restricted to the variety that was then distinguished as the fibrous or common epulis. Epulides consist principally of fibrous tissue, but may sometimes contain a few mye- loid cells. They frequently appear to depend upon the irritation ol carious stumps, and spring from the peri- odontal membrane lining an alveolus. Beginning as a swelling of the little tongue-like process of gum between the teeth, as they increase in size they appear as hard, fleshy, circumscribed, smooth or slightly lobulated, elastic growths, covered by mucous membrane. When they have existed some time ulceration of the surface may occur and the teeth become loosened or fall out. Treatment.—^They should be excised with bone forceps or a small saw, taking care to cut away a small piece of the bone beneath, as otherwise they are apt to return. When quite small they may be shaved off and the bone at their base slightly gouged away, and the o:ffending tooth or teeth removed. Myeloid saecoma [myeloid epulis) is occasionally met with in the gums as a rapidly-growing vascular tumour of a purplish-red colour and soft spongy con- sistency. It should be very freely removed, as other- wise it will return. The haemorrhage during removal is generally free, and may require the actual cautery to restrain it. Epithelioma {malignant epulis) of the gums is rare. In the upper jaw it has a marked tendency to creep up into the antrum {creeping epithelioma) and to simulate caries or necrosis of the jaw. Eree excision, with re- moval of the upper jaw if the antrum is involved, should