CIIOLECYSTOTOMY. 673 the patient becomes faint, or if violent cough comes on. Otherwise continue the- aspiration till the cyst is emptied. On the removal of the needle place an antiseptic pad over the wound. The operation is not free from danger, several patients having died suddenly on the in- troduction of the needle, apparently in some cases from . plugging of the pulmonary vein by a portion of a hydatid that has escaped into the circulation through a ^ wound of one of the hepatic veins. Incisiois" oe the liter may be required for evacuating a hydatid cyst, or abscess. Make an incision over the most prominent part of the swelling, and having divided the abdominal parietes and stopped all bleeding, open the abdominal cavity. If the liver is adherent to the abdominal walls carefully incise it, first introducing an aspirating-needle to determine the situation of the pus. If non-adherent the liver may be stitched to the abdominal wall and an aspirator introduced to determine the situa- tion of the cyst or abscess, and the liver substance then incised. Or the opening of the cyst or abscess may be delayed till the liver has become adherent to the parietes. Great care should be taken, if the cyst or abscess is ' opened at once, to prevent any fl.uid or pus escaping into the peritoneal cavity, and the strictest antiseptic pre- cautions should of course be observed. Place a drain tube in the wound and ai)ply antiseptic dressings. Tapping the abdomen eoe, ascites should be done in the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and the pubes (Fig. 253, a). The bladder having been emptied, a I small incision should be made through the skin; and the trocar and cannula, with a tube attached to convey the fluid into a vessel, should be thrust into the abdomen. The fluid should be drawn off slowly, and a many- tailed bandage, previously passed round the body, gradually tightened as the fluid flows, in order to keep up pressure on the abdominal vessels, and so prevent syncope. Oholecystotomy is the opening and draining of the gall-bladder, consequent upon the impaction of a calculus in the cystic duct. Make a vertical incision in the linea semilunaris, beginning just below the ninth costal carti- lage, or over the tumour when the gall-bladder is dis- tended (Fig. 253, f). Having divided the abdominal parietes and stopped all bleeding, open the peritoneum. Search for the gall-bladder with the finger beneath the W. X X