ULCERATION OF THE TONGUE. 569 round, oval or irregular, painful ulcer. The edges are slightly raised, vertical, inverted, or undermined, some- times slightly thickened, l^ut never everted or greatly indurated. The base is uneven or nodular, and covered with coarse, pinkish-grey granulations, or with a grey or yellow shreddy slough. Sometimes several smaller ulcers appear around the one first formed, and coalesce with it. The ulceration usually progresses in spite of treatment, the patient dying of phthisis or other tuber- cular affection. The absence of glandular enlargement, of induration, and of signs of syphilis, along with the presence of tubercle elsewhere, and the characters given above should serve to distinguish it from syphilitic and epitheliomatous ulceration. Treatment has hitherto been of little service. The ulcer, however, may be soothed by Ferrier's snuff or cocaine; or if the constitutional state does not forbid, it may be scraped with a Yolkmann's spoon and dusted with iodoform, cauterized with nitrate of silver, or cut out. The usual constitutional treatment for tubercle should, of course, at the same time be em- ployed. {Syphilitic ulceration may be divided for practical pur- poses into the superficial and deep; the former commonly occurring in the early, the latter in the later stages of syphilis, [a) The superficial ulcers affect the side of the tongue, and are frequently associated with similar ulcers on the lips, cheeks, palate, gums, and fauces. They are usually of an oval or irregular shape and have sharply cut edges, an ash-grey base, and a surrounding areola of inflammation. They readily disappear under the influence of mercury, and the local application of a lotion of nitrate of silver or chromic acid. These ulcers are sometimes associated with a heaping-up of epithelium similar to that which occurs in mucous tubercles, {b) The deep ulcers are due to the breaking down of syphilitic gummata. They generally occur in the centre of the dorsum of the tongue as deep irregular excavations, with raised, slightly concave or undermined edges, and a base covered with a yellow slough and debris of breaking-down tissue. They are usually surrounded with a red areola. On healing, they leave characteristic, cracked, or stellate- looking scars. Their situation at or near the middle of the tongue, the absence of induration and of glandular enlargement, the history of the previous gummatous swellings and of syphilis, and their amenability to anti-