SP^A BIFIDA. 649 the back of the pharynx (post-vharyngeal) or at the side of the neck. Treatment.—Absolute rest on the back, with the head between sand-bags, is imperative, as there is danger of fatal compression of the cord from the odon- toid process or the transverse ligament giving way during some sudden movement of the patient. In some cases attended with paralysis below the disease, continuous extension and counter-extension, with the patient in the recumbent position, has been successful in removing the pressure from the cord. When the acute symptoms have subsided, a moulded collar of leather or poroplastic felt, or an inflating india-rubber collar, will be required. Should an abscess form it should be opened in the neck if possible rather than through the mouth. Spina bifida " is a congenital malformation of the vertebral canal with protrusion of some of its contents in the form of a fluid tumour." It is nearly always met with in the middle line of the back, but very exception- ally the protrusion has occurred through the bodies of the vertebrae instead of posteriorly through the cleft spines. It is due to an arrest of development of the laminae of the vertebrae (mesohlastic elements)^ and their consequent failure to unite in the middle line to form the spinous processes. This non-union may possibly be sometimes owing to an excess of cerebro-spinal fluid. A spina bifida may occur in any part of the spine, but is most common in the lumbo-sacral region, where the laminae are the latest to unite. It may be associated with other deformi- ties, especially club-foot. Pathology.—Three chief forms of spina bifida are de- scribed :—1, spinal meningocele, 2, meningo-myelocele, 3, syringo-myelocele. 1. In spinal meningocele the sac (I^ig. 248) consists of dura mater and arachnoid blended to- together, and consequently communicates with the sub- arachnoid space and contains cerebro-spinal fluid. The cord and nerves remain in the spinal canal. Yery rarely the sac is said to consist of dura mater only, i.e., dura mater and so-called parietal layer of arachnoid; it would then communicate with the subdural space and contain arach- noid fluid. 2. In the meningo-myelocele (Fig. 249), the most common form, the sac also consists of dura mater and arachnoid, but contains in addition to cerebro-spinal fluid the spinal cord and nerves, which are often spread out over and intimately blended with the posterior part of the wall of the sac. As the cord passes through the