284 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. cases may become fixed in contact with. it. The skin being adherent to the fascia, is thrown thereby into transverse puckers. The affection may be distinguished from a contracted tendon by the latter forming a tight cord, which can be traced under the annular ligament, and by the skin in the case of the contracted tendon being free. In contraction of the fascia, moreover, two tense bands can generally be traced to the sides of the finger, whereas a contracted tendon is centrally placed. Treatment.—Except in the early stages, when steps should be taken to prevent further contraction by suitable splints, elastic tension, &c., subcutaneous division of the affected portions of the fascia, followed by extension, or the excision of the contracted band through an open aseptic incision [Thiersch's method) is requisite. Sub- cutaneous division may be done by single or by multiple puncture. The latter is, in my opinion, preferable if the subcutaneous method is adopted. The punctures should be made opposite the puckers in the skin, not in the creases, to prevent the wounds from gaping when the fascia is stretched. An apparatus should be worn for many months to prevent recontraction. In severe cases I have obtained excellent results by the open incision. After this method, moreover, there is less liability to re-contraction. DISEASES OP BIJES^. BuRS^, wherever situated, and whether existing naturally or formed adventitiously, are liable to become acutely or chronically inflamed. Acute bursitis may occur spontaneously, but is generally excited by injury, or undue pressure as from constant kneeling. The inflammation comes on ra,ther suddenly, the part appearing red, hot and swollen. It is apt to terminate in suppuration, which if timely incisions are not made may become diffuse and phlegmonous. Evaporating lotions, an ice-bag or a few leeches, may, if applied early, check the inflammation; but a free incision must be made as soon as there are signs of suppuration. Chronic bursitis is very apt to occur in bursee that are subjected to continued pressure or irritation, and may lead to several distinct conditions. Thus, 1. Bur see may become simply enlarged and distended with bursal secretion, In this state they form globular, fluctuating,