138 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. called for. Cold or hot water, however, may be used to more quickly cause its cessation; and firm pressure on bringing the wound together will also check it. CONSTITUTIONAL EFEECTS OF INJURY. Shock is a general lowering of the vital powers induced by a severe impression made directly on the nerve-centres, or indirectly through the peripheral nerves. The causes of shock may be divided into the predis- posing and the exciting. Certain conditions prior to an injury or an operation tend to make the shock more severe, and may therefore be regarded as predisposing causes. Such are Bright's disease, hepatic and cardiac mischief, a highly nervous and hysterical temperament, enfeeblement from old age, sedentary occupation, exces- sive fear of the operation, &c. Among the exciting causes may be mentioned mechanical injuries, especially of important parts or organs, as the abdomen, testicle, &c,, burns and scalds, especially when extensive and involving the trunk, serious operations, particularly when prolonged, undue exposure of the body to cold as during a long operation, bites of venomous reptiles, the action of some irritant poisons, the sudden emptying of an overdistended bladder, &c. Powerful mental emotions, as sudden fright, grief, or joy, are sometimes sufficient of themselves to produce severe and even fatal shock. In fatal cases of shock from such causes, however, some visceral disease has generally been discovered. Fright, moreover, adds to the shock produced by mechanical injury, as seen for example in railway accidents, burns from the clothes taking fire, &c. Pathology.—But little is found post mortem in fatal cases of shock. The right side of the heart and the venous system generally, especially the abdominal veins, may be engorged with blood, and the nerve-centres anaemic. Sometimes the heart has been found empty, and if the shock has been combined with severe haemorrhage there may be a general deficiency of blood in the body. The impression produced by the injury, operation, or mental emotion on the nervous centres, is believed either, —1, to lead to paralysis of the heart directly through the pneumpgastric neryes; or 2, to induce through th?