l36 GENERAL PAffiOLOGY OF mjtJRlES. 1. Cold is only applicable to stopping hsemorrliage from small vessels. It acts by causing the ^Aiscularjoat fo^ontract, thus promoting the coagulation of the blood in the arterioles and capillaries. It is frequently employed in the form of cold water or ice to arrest bleeding from the toaller vessels in operation wounds, and is a well-known domestic remedy for checking epistaxis, &c. 2. Seat in the form of hot water is now often em- j)lciye(r m place of cold water in large operation wounds, as cold applied to a large surface tends to increa^se the shock of the operation. The water muit be'TTot (110° to 120°) ; warm water merely encourages the haemorrhage by washing away the coagula blocking the vessels. Heat, like cold, acts by stimulating the muscular fibres of the vessel to contract. 3. PeE^SURE as a temporary means of arresting haemor- rhage has already been mentioned. Firmly applied to the flaps covering a wound, it is an efficient method of con- trolling the bleeding from the numerous small vessels necessarily divided in operations. In the form of a plug or tampon it is the best means at our command in certain situations where the artery cannot be secured by more reliable methods, as the rectum, vagina, tonsil, nose, socket of a tooth, interior of bone, &c. It is, moreover, frequently employed to stop haemorrhage from a moderate- sized artery where such can be pressed against a bone, as in the scalp ; whilst in the form of a graduated compress it is especially applicable to wounds of the palmar arch. Pressure acts mechanically by closing the vessel. 4. Styptics arrest haemorrhage by inducing_the co- agulatioh of the blood. Those most in use ai-e percEloride of iron, hamamelis, and nitrate of silver. Of the per- chloride of iron, the strong liquor and the solid form are the most efficient preparations. Styptics may be most usefully employed in conjunction with pressure in cases where the latter alone has proved ineffectual. The ob- jection to their use is that they are apt to cause inflam- mation and sloughing of the tissues, and consequently secondary haemorrhage is liable to occur on the separa- tion of the slough. A case has recently come under the care of a colleague in which two inches of the median nerve were destroyed by the sloughing following the appli- cation of perchloride of iron to a wound of the brachial artery. Styptics should never be used where more efficient and safer means of arresting haemorrhage can be