29 suppuratiojV and abscess. a-ffection, as spinal caries, that is known to be often associated with abscess. Before a chronic abscess is opened there are usually no constitutional symptoms; but subsequently saprophytic bacteria or pyogenic micro- cocci may gain admission, and long continued suppuration attended by hectic fever or lardaceous disease of the viscera is very liable to ensue and terminate fatally from exhaustion, renal disease, diarrhoea, or hepatic mischief. Diagnosis, A small chronic abscess in the subcutaneous tissue may be mistaken for a fatty tumour, a hydatid or other cyst, a blood-extravasation, or a soft solid tumour, and it may be quite impossible to arrive at a correct diagnosis without puncture with a grooved needle. The diagnosis of chronic abscess connected with the spine, joints, &c., will be further alluded to in the section on diseases of regions. Terminations.—A chronic abscess, after remaining quiescent for a long period, may take on increased action, and burst either externally, or into a mucous canal, a serous cavitj^, &p., or the watery portions of the pus may be absorbed, leaving behind a caseous mass, which may either dry up or undergo calcification; or it may remain in its caseous state for years, and then break down, and set up fresh inflammation around, and produce what is called a residual abscess. Treatment.— Small chronic abscesses unconnected with diseased bone, joints, &c., may be treated like other abscesses by free incision, drainage, and prevention of putrefaction. Large abscesses, especially when the result of spinal disease, require very careful management. If free drainage and antiseptic precautions are neglected, and the pus is allowed to undergo putrefaction or fermentation, or pyogenic micrococci gain admission, long, continued suppuration and attending hectic generally follow and frequently terminate fatally. Hence, many advise that the opening of a chronic abscess should be delayed as long as pos- sible—i,e., until it is evident from the reddening of the skin, and its near approach to the surface, that it will, if left longer, burst spontaneously. The objections to this plan are, that the evil day is only postponed, and that in the meantime extensive destruction of the tissues is taking place as the abscess is allowed to enlarge. The best plan would appear to be to aspirate the abscess frequently so as to reduce its size, and then to open it freely with anti- septic precautions, and ensure thorough drainage sub- sequently. Aspiration alone, however, and especially