329 DISEASES OF THE VEINS. iliacs to tiie femoral. 2. Gangrene occasionally occurs after the plugging of a large vein where the collateral circulation is insufficient to relieve the engorgement of the part, and is necessarily of the moist variety. 3. Fhle- hitis, or inflammation of the vein-walls, may ensue, and will take a simple or a spreading and suppurative form, according as the thrombus is of a simple or of a septic or infective nature. 4. Emholism, owing to a portion of a thrombus being swept away by the blood-stream and becoming lodged in a distant vessel. The way in which this detachment may take place is shown in Fig. 37, p. 161. If the thrombus is of a simple character, no harm may ensue; but if septic or infective, the embolus will also be septic or infective, and set up a like inflam- mation in the part where it becomes arrested. (See Pycemia, p. 158.) Signs.—When the deep veins are plugged, the^ only evidence of the thrombosis will be signs of obstruction to the circulation in the veins below, such as oedema or dilatation of the superficial veins. When, however, a superficial vein, as one of the saphenas, is affected, there will be a hard cord-like swelling in the situation of the vein, and some tenderness on pressure and feeling of stiffness on movement. Should inflammation of the vein follow from the presence of the thrombus, there will be in addition some heat and redness of the skin. (See Phlehitis.) Treatment.—Absolute rest in the recumbent position is essential, lest a portion of the clot should become detached and lodged in an important organ, as the brain, or plug the pulmonary artery, and sudden death ensue. Where there is much oedema, the part should at first be elevated, and subsequently evenly and firmly bandaged. Phlebitis, or inflammation of veins, may be divided into the simple, and the septic or spreading. Simple phlebitis, formerly known as adhesive phlehitis, is a simple local inflammation of the vein-wall, and may terminate in resolution, obliteration of the vein, or more rarely in the formation of a localized abscess. Causes.— 1. Injury of the vein-walls. 2. Simple inflammation of the surrounding tissues. 3. The formation of a non- infective thrombus in a vein. 4. Gout or the gouty dia- thesis. 5. Certain conditions of the system the exact nature of which is not known, the phlebitis being then spoken of as idiopathic.