364 INJURIES OF REGIONS. septic dressing. It is true that even when this is done a way still remains open to the tympanum by the Eustachian tube; but it is thought that the cilia prevent the access of micro-organisms by this channel. Should intra-cranial inflammation supervene, it must be treated in the way indicated under that head (p. 375). Injuries of the Brain and its Memhranes. CoNCUSSioiS' OF THE BRAIN.—This term is applied to a collection of symptoms supposed to depend on a shaking or commotion of the brain substance. It is popularly spoken of as ' stunning.'' Pathology.—The exact condition of the brain that gives rise to the symptoms which go by the name of concussion is not known. By some it is believed that they depend on the mere shock to the brain—that there is some vibration or molecular disturbance of its particles, or anaemia of its substance induced by spasm of the small arteries, and that the shock may prove fatal in this way without any lesion being discovered after death. Generally, however, a slight contusion or laceration of the brain, or puncti- form extravasations of blood in its substance have been found, and to such some attribute the symptoms of con- cussion. In the few cases that have been immediately fatal after a blow on the head without any obvious lesion having been discovered in the brain, the post-mortem examination has been unfortunately incomplete. Henc it is maintained by those who hold that there is always an obvious lesion, that death in these cases might have resulted from other mischief, such as fracture of the cervical spine. Symptoms.—Concussion may be divided into two stages: 1. Insensibility; 2, Eeaction. 1. The first stage comes on immediately on the receipt of injury; it may be quite transitory, the patient merely losing consciousness for a few minutes, and then recovering completely; or it may last for a few hours or a few days or even longer. The patient lies in an unconscious condition, but can be roused momentarily on shaking him, or shouting in his ear There is loss of all power of motion; the pulse is feeble, fluttering, often frequent; the respirations are shallow, and quiet or sighing; and the surface is cold, often clammy, the temperature sometimes being as low as 97 or 96. The