TREATMENT OE WOUNDS. 113 For the treatment of these see Shock and Hc^imorrhage. For the wound to do well it is important that the patient should be placed under the best possible hygienic condi- tions. He should have an abundant supply of fresh air, the secretions should be regulated, and the diet care- fully supervised. Thus, he should have at least fifteen hundred cubic feet of air, and this should be changed by efficient ventilation once every hour. The windows, in addition, except in very severe weather, should be opened at regular intervals, in order to thoroughly flush out the room; but draughts must be avoided, and the tempera- ture of the room maintained at a uniform degree of about 60° F. A horsehair mattress should be employed, and a draw-sheet placed on the bed. The room or ward should be scrupulously clean; there should be no curtains to the bed and windows, or carpet on the floor, and nothing under the bed to interfere with the free circu- lation of air. The bowels should be kept regular by small doses of confection of senna or of the compound liquorice powder, or by one of the laxative mineral waters; the secretion of the skin promoted by washing, which may be done without unduly exposing or wetting the patient; and sleep induced, if necessary, by bromide of potas- sium, urethane, chloral, sulphonal, or opium, or by sub- cutaneous injections of morphia. The patient must be kept cheerful by books, newspapers, etc. The diet for the first few days should be limited to milk, weak beef- tea, or chicken-broth, and gradually increased if the temperature remains normal and as the digestive func- tions regain their power. Where the strength has been much reduced previous to the operation, or the operation has been severe, or the shock marked, or haemorrhage free, or suppuration has ensued, stimulants, varying in amount according to the state of the pulse, temperature, and tongue are indicated. The treatment necessary for the various complications, that may attend the healing of wounds are given under Inflammation, Suppuration, Erysipelas, etc. As regards the preparation for operation^ where this is not one of emergency the patient should be placed at rest for a few days, and kept cheerful and in good spirits, and put on nourishing but unstimulating diet. In the meantime his digestive, alvine, renal, and cutaneous functions must be regulated by appropriate means, the bowels being cleared the day before the operation by a dose of castor-oil or other mild purgative. I