DISEASES OF REGIONS. 624 ulceration of the anterior wall of the trachea, on which from its curve it must necessarily impinge; it has even been known to perforate the wall and to enter the in- nominate artery. This can be prevented by the improved- shaped cannula invented by Mr. E. W. Parker (Fig. 239). Should the breathing cease during the operation, the trachea should still be opened, the obstructing membranes removed, and artificial respiration persevered in for some time. Bangers and difficulties of the operation,—Where the operation can be done deliberately, and on a patient with a thin neck, it is attended with no great difficulty; but where, as is frequently the case, it has to be undertaken on an emergency, possibly with insufficient light and with no skilled assistant at hand, or on a young child or infant with a fat neck, and has to be completed rapidly to pre- vent death from suffocation, it is perhaps one of the most trying that the Surgeon is called upon to per- FiG. 239.—Parker's form. The dangers into which the cannula. inexperienced and unwary may then fall are the following :— 1. The liyoid hone or the thyroid cartilage may be mis- taken for the cricoid cartilage, and the incision made through the thyro-hyoid membrane or into the thyroid cartilage. This mistake could hardly occur except in a fat-necked child, and then only through carelessness in not determining the position of the cricoid cartilage before beginning the operation. 2. The interval hetioeen the sterno-hyoid muscles may he missed, and the dissection carried to one or other side of the trachea. The thyroid body and even the carotid artery has in this way been wounded. To avoid such, a disaster the head should be held perfectly straight and the incision made accurately in the middle line; one side of the wound should not be retracted more than the other; and the index finger should be used from time to time to make sure that the dissection is being made over the trachea. 3. Too short an incision may he made, and consequently be a source of embarrassment in drawing down the thyroid isthmus, and in defining the trachea before it is opened. The incision should never be less than an inch and a half long even in a child.