HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 153 sipelas. Incisions should be inade early, and stimulating treatment is generally required from the first. Hospital Gangrene or Sloughing Phagedena is a rapidly spreading, infective inflammation accompanied by extensive sloughing and ulceration. It most commonly aftects an open wound, but has been known to follow injuries where there has been no break in the skin. It is seldom seen at the present day owing to improved hygiene, better hospital management, and the more scientific treatment of wounds. The virus, probably the pyogenic micrococci, may be conveyed to the wound by the air, the hands of the surgeon or nurse, instruments, sponges, &c. The micrococci [streptococci and staphylo- cocci) are found in chains and masses as well as singly, both in the slough and in the inflamed tissues around. (See also Fhagedcenic Ulcers, p, 38.) Symptoms.—When an open wound is attacked a pulta- ceous, ash-grey, adherent slough forms on the surface, and the sloughing rapidly spreads both deeply and widely. The edges of the wound are dusky-red, oedematous, sharp- cut, and rapidly melt away as the gangrene proceeds. The discharge is thin and greenish or blood-stained, and exhales a horrible foetor. Although a local infective dis- ease, severe constitutional symptoms of blood-poisoning, rapidly assuming a typhoid character, are set up by the absorption of the septic products (ptomaines), and fre- quently terminate fatally in a few hours. No micro- organisms have been found in the blood. Treatment.—The patient should be isolated, and where the disease occurs in military practice as an epidemic, the whole of the patients in the infected building should be removed to huts or tents. Stimulants, opium, and quinine should be given internally; whilst locally, the slough must be completely removed, the ulcerated surface thoroughly destroyed by strong nitric acid or chloride of zinc, and the wound sprinkled with iodoform and dressed- antiseptically. Wound-Diphtheria is rare in this country. It is thought by some to be a mild form of hospital gangrene due to the ordinary microbes of suppuration, by others to be a distinct affection depending upon a specific form of micrococcus and the result of bad hygiene and want of cleanliness in the treatment of the wound. When a wound is so attacked, the surface, previously granulating, becomes covered with a greyish-white, opaque, tenacious