586 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Tumours oe the upper jaw may be cystic or solid, and the latter innocent or malignant; whilst cysts may likewise occur in the malignant solid tumours. Cystic tumours may be produced : 1. In connection with the fang of a carious tooth. 2. By an error in develop- ment of the enamel sac covering the crown of a tooth {dentigerous cysts); and 3. By obstruction of a mucous follicle in the lining membrane of the antrum. These cysts usually contain a serous, gelatinous, or a brownish fluid in which cholesterine is often found. The condition known as dropsy of the antrum, and formerly believed to depend merely upon an accumulation of fluid in that cavity owing to the occlusion of the opening into the nose, would appear to be due to one of these mucous cysts completely filling the antrum; Dentigerous cysts, which may also occur in the lower jaw, are due to an error in the development of the enamel sac usually of the permanent teeth. They differ from the ordinary dental cyst depending upon the irritation of a decayed fang, in that in the latter the fang will gene- rally be found projecting into the cyst, whereas in the den- tigerous variety, the crown alone, which has not been cut, or in some cases the whole tooth, will be found in the cyst. Solid tumours may spring from the periosteum covering the exterior of the bone, or from the mucous or the periosteal lining of the antrum. They may have a fibrous, cartilaginous, osseous, myxomatous, adenomatous, sar- comatous or carcinomatous structure; but fibrous and sarcomatous tumours are the most common, whilst car- tilaginous are very rare. Ossification of the sarcomatous growths is of occasional occurrence. They may be closely simulated by tumours of a like diversitj^ of structure growing from the malar bone, the spheno-maxillary fossa, or the base of the skull. Symptoms and diagnosis.—Clinically, it is not always possible to determine the exact structure of these tumours, nor is it essential, the Surgeon's aim being rather to distinguish the solid from the fluid, and the innocent from the malignant', and to make out their origin and present attachments. When the tumour, whether cystic or solid, innocent or malignant, begins in the antrum, it sooner or later fills that cavity, and then in its further growth causes its walls to bulge in various directions. Thus, the protrusion of the anterior wall