LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 319 of its course for—1, axillary aneurysm ; 2, aneurysm at the root of the neck (distal ligature); 3, ruptured axillary artery; 4, secondary haemorrhage after amputation at the shoulder-joint; and 5, as a preliminary to the latter operation. The head having been drawn well back, the face turned to the 0]3posite side and the shoulder depressed, draw^ down the skin over the clavicle, make an incision along the middle third of that bone through the integuments and platysma, so as to avoid injuring the external jugular vein, and let the tissues slip up again (Fig. 242, f). Next divide the deep fascia on a director, and the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid will be exposed. Hold aside or divide if necessary the external jugular or any other vein that may be in the way, but do not injure the suprascapular artery, as this is one of the chief vessels by which the collateral circulation will subsequently be carried on. Search with the finger and director for the scalene tubercle in the triangle bounded by. the omo-hyoid above, the clavicle below, and the scalenus anticus on the inner side; the artery will be felt pulsating behind the tubercle. It has the vein in front of it, but on a lower plane, and the brachial plexus above it. Pass the needle from above downwards. The artery, if necessary, may be tied in the second part of its course by extending the incision inwards and partially dividing the scalenus anticus. Ligature of the first part has been so uniformly fatal hitherto that it will not be described. The principal accidents that may occur during ligature of the subclavian in the third ^ part of its course are—1, injury of the external jugular vein or other veins, and profuse venous haemorrhage; 2, wound of the sac of the aneurysm; 3, puncture of the pleura; 4, inclusion of a cord of the brachial plexus ; 5, injury of the phrenic nerve. The chief dangers after liga- ture are pleurisy, secondary haemorrhage, and suppuration of the sac. The collateral circulation (Fig. 88) after liga- ture of the third portion is carried on by—1, the supra- scapular and posterior scapular arteries anastomosing with the infra-scapular, subscapular, and dorsalis scapulae arteries; 2, the internal mammary, superior intercostal and aortic intercostal arteries anastomosing with the long and short thoracic arteries. The axillary artery can seldom require ligature except for wound or rupture (p. 203). In its continuity it may be tied in the first, second, and third part of its course. In the third part it can be readily secured by