Ill STRICTURE OF THE UHETHRA. especially the glans, being swollen, turgid, and dusky red in colour. It may terminate in suppuration of tlie inguinal glands, or even in blood-poisoning. In the ordinary gonorrhcaal hubo, inflamed lymphatics are not as a rule visible on the penis, and the inflammation which may occur both in and around the gland generally termi- nates without suppuration. Treatjtient.—Eest, and atten- tion to the bowels, is all that is usually required. If, however, suppuration threatens, hot linseed poultices and fomentations must be applied, and a free incision in a vertical direction made as soon as pus forms. Stricture of the Urethra, True, or organic stricture of the urethra is a cicatricial narrowing of the canal at one or more spots due to disease, injury, or congenital defect. A temporary narrowing of the urethra may also occur from spasm of the muscular tissue surrounding it, or from congestion of its lining membrane, conditions to which the terms spasmodic and congestive stricture are sometimes applied. Such, however, seldom occur without the co-existence of organic stricture. Obstruction of the urethra by a calculus, an enlarged prostate, or by pressure from without, as from an abscess or fractured pelvic bone, should not be spoken of as stricture. Cause and formation of stricture.—A stricture is generally the result of chronic inflammation, such as a neglected gonorrhoea or gleet, or more rarely, a simple urethritis in a gouty subject. In such cases the mucous and sub- mucous tissue become infiltrated with inflammatory pro- ducts, which are ultimately organized into fibrous tissue ; and this again slowly contracts, narrowing the canal. More rarely a stricture may be caused by the contraction of a cicatrix following laceration or rupture of the urethra, produced by injury inflicted either from within by the careless passage of instruments or the use of too strong injections, or from without by kicks, falls, &c., on the perineum. Occasionally it may be due to the contraction of the cicatrix following a urethral chancre. In some instances no cause can be ascribed. A few cases are congenital. Varieties.—Organic strictures have been divided (1) according to their cause, into idiopathic and traumatic; 3 D 2