601 DISEASES OE THE SEPTUM NASI. Eonge's operation of turning up the upper lip and tlie I cartilaginous portion of the nose after division _ of the I septum, and the operation of Langenbeck of turning the maxillary bone outwards on the cheek, and then re- j placing it after removal of the growth, have their advo- I cates. My experience of these last-mentioned procedures i is not very favourable. , The exposure obtained by the ; former is no better than that gained by turning back the ala; and the shock and haemorrhage attending the latter renders it very dangerous. Many other methods and \ modifications of the above have been proposed, but for an account of these a larger work on Surgery must be consulted. 3. Malignant pol2/pi. — Sarcomatous and cancerous tumours may arise both in the nasal cavities and naso- pharynx, and then constitute what are called malignant polypi. They give rise to symptoms similar _ to those of the fibrous polypi already described, but their growth is more rapid, and they quickly infiltrate surrounding parts and involve the neighbouring glands. They may occur both in the young and in the old. If a small piece can be removed, the microscope will reveal its nature. Treat- ment.—When the growth can be got completely away, early and free extirpation by one of the methods above I described is the only treatment. Oz^NA is a term which has been used very loosely by authors. By some it has been applied to all diseases^ of the nose attended with a foul-smelling discharge, whilst by others it has been restricted to the foetid form of atrophic nasal catarrh. The term, therefore, as desig- I nating a disease, is misleading, and should be discon- tinued in this sense. For purposes of diagnosis it may be mentioned that it is a prominent symptom in the fol- lowing affections of the nose : 1, atrophic nasal catarrh ; I 2, necrosis and caries, whether of syphilitic or other I origin ; 3, tuberculous, syphilitic and lupoid ulceration of the mucous membrane; 4, foreign bodies and rhinoliths in the nasal cavities; 5, some forms of new growth. Diseases of the septum nasi.—Blood tumoicrs are occasionally met with as the result of injury. The blood j is extravasated between the cartilage and the soft tissues, \ generally on both sides of the septum, causing in both I nostrils a fluctuating circumscribed swelling which may I be readily distinguished from abscess by its coming on immediately after the injury and by the absence of signs