ANEURYSM AT ROOT OF NECK. 309 solidation occurs very slowly. Our experience of this method is at present very limited. In a case of aneurysm at the root of the neck in which I tried it the results were such as to lead me to think it has a future. GrALVANO-PUNCTURE, INJECTIONS OF PERCHLORIDE OF IRON, TANNIN, and the like, and the introduction of FOREIGN BODIES as HORSEHAIR or IRON WIRE, which have all for their object the coagulation of the blood in the sac, are highly dangerous procedures, and have not hitherto been attended with much success. SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. Internal aneurysms falling as they do under the care of the Physician rather than of the Surgeon, will be referred to only in as far as an aneurysm of the arch of the aorta, of the innominate, of the first portion of the subclavian, and of the portion of the left common carotid within the chest may present as a pulsating tumour at the root of the neck, and as such may call for surgical treatment. Aneurysm at the root of the neck.—-The dif- ferential diagnosis of aneurysm in this situation is always difiicult, at times impossible. Indeed the aneurysm may involve more than one artery, perhaps all three of the main branches of the aortic arch, and even the arch itself as well. The sign common to all forms, whatever the artery implicated, is a pulsating tumour at the root of the neck, in whicn a loud bruit can generally be heard. When the aneurysm involves the aorta, it generally presents just above the suprasternal notch, and there are symptoms within the chest of the aorta being affected. When the innominate is implicated, the aneurysm pro- jects between the two heads of origin of the sterno- mastoid muscle; and the pulse in the temporal and radial arteries is smaller on the right than on the left side, and is aneurysmal in character. (See p. 296.) When the aneurysm involves the common carotid, it presents beneath the inner head of the sterno-mastoid, and tends to extend upwards in the neck by the side of the trachea; the bruit is transmitted up the carotid, and the pulse in the tem- poral is smaller on the affected than on the sound side and is aneurysmal; but the pulse in the radial is the same on both sides. When the subclavian is involved the tumour is external to the sterno-mastoid; it extends in