GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJUKIES. 146 are subjected to mechanical tension in consequence of the insufficiency of the external opening. Pathology,—The poison, notwithstanding its virulence, is productive of very little in the way of post-mortem change which can be said to be characteristic. The parts on which its effects are more especially manifested are the blood, the gastro-intestinal canal, the nerve-centres, and the kidneys. Thus, the red blood-corpuscles undergo rapid disintegration, causing a staining of the tissues and vessels, and are found aggregated in little masses blocking the capillaries, and, probably in consequence, producing the capillary hjemorrhages (petechice) which are found more or less over the whole body, and especially beneath the serous membranes. No micro-organisms are found in the blood. The gastro-intestinal canal, the nerve centres, and the viscera generally are congested; the congestion of the kidneys, by which organs the poison is principally eliminated, being especially marked. De- composition occurs very rapidly after death. The Symptoms, of which headache, vomiting, and de- lirium are the chief, usually come on about the second day after the infliction of the wound, and may be ushered in by a slight chill or even a severe rigor. The tempera- ture suddenly rises to 103° or 104°; the skin becomes clammy ; the tongue dry and furred; nausea or vomiting, and sometimes diarrhoea set in; the patient becomes delirious, and if the dose of the poison has been large or its continuous absorption is not prevented, rapidly sinks into a state of collapse; the temperature falls possibly below normal whilst the pulse continues rapid. The patient becomes unconscious, then comatose, and then dies. Where the dose absorbed has been less, the progress of the disease is less rapid, the patient becomes anaemic, and perhaps jaundiced, the urine albuminous, the spleen enlarged, the vomiting and diarrhoea continue, and death may occur from exhaustion. The Treatment must be directed to the removal of the decomposing discharges from the wound or cavity. If this is promptly and effectually done, the disease will generally be arrested. Thus, wounds must be washed out with antiseptic lotions, serous cavities drained, joints laid freely open, and tension in abscesses removed by giving free vent to the pent up and decomposing pus. The patient's strength in the meanwhile must be supported by fluid