INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 194 ness of the ligaments surrounding the joint from previous dislocation or disease; 2, the' shape of the joint—ball- and-socket joints from their extensive range of movement being more easily dislocated than hinge joints; 3, middle life—the bones being then strong and capable of resisting fracture and the muscles powerful; 4, the male sex—men being more continually exposed to violence than women. The exciting causes are usually, 1, external violence, either direct or indirect, and sometimes, 2, muscular action. Examples of each will be met with in the section on special dislocations. The Signs common to all dislocations are:—1. Altera- tion in the shape of the joint. 2. Inability to move the limb on the part of the patient, and more or less fixidity to the efforts of the Surgeon. 3. An alteration in the relations of points of bone about the joint. 4. An ab- normal position of the end of the displaced bone; and 5. Shortening or lengthening of the limb, or an alteration of its axis. The signs are frequently obscured by swelling, in and about the joint, due to extravasation of blood or effusion of synovial fluid. Hence the importance of accu- rately ascertaining the nature of the injury immediately after the accident, as when swelling has supervened it may not be possible to make a diagnosis till it has sub- sided. The state of the parts will be more especially referred to under each special dislocation. Here it may be briefly stated that the head of the bone is generally forced through the capsular ligament; whilst other of the ligaments, surrounding tendons, and muscles, may be ruptured or tightly stretched, and the arteries and nerves displaced, pressed upon, or torn. In the ball-and-socket joints the end of the bone will be found either opposite the rent in the capsule, or drawn to some distance from it by muscular contraction. If reduction is effected early, the damaged ligaments and muscles are soon repaired; but they remain for some time weakened and stretched, and thus predispose to re-dislocation. Hence the impor- tance of keeping the parts at rest until firm union of the ruptured capsular and other ligaments has occurred. After reduction a moderate amount of inflammation and serous effusion in and about the joint generally ensues, but usually subsides in a few days if the parts are kept at rest, the joint becoming gradually restored to its normal condition. If rest is neglected, however, the rent in the