DISEASES OF REGIONS. 656 or on carcinoma of the omentum or mesentery. It is more common in the small than in the large intestine, and not only narrows the calibre of the bowel, but also obstructs the peristaltic action by gluing the coils of in- testine to one another and causing contraction of the mesentery. 7. Acute peritonitis and enteritis are not un- common causes of intestinal obstruction. Peritonitis is a frequent termination of the other conditions that cause obstruction, but is perhaps most often due to inflammation spreading from the region of the caecum [peri-typhlitis), or the bursting of a peri-typhlitic abscess into the peritoneal cavity. This inflammation about the caecum is not infrequently started by the impaction of a foreign body, as a fruit or gall stone or little mass of hardened faeces, in the vermiform appendix, and is apt to recur from time to time [recurrent typhlitis, appendicitis). In such cases, moreover, ulceration or gangrene of the appendix may take place. The peritonitis may then remain localized and terminate in a peri-typhlitic abscess, or it may spread to the general peritoneal cavity and be- come diffuse. Enteritis is most common in the caecum [typhlitis). 8. Congenital malformation of the intestine.—- Amongst the chief of these may be mentioned imper- forate anus, deficiency of the rectum, absence of the colon, termination of the colon in the bladder, &c. Ob- structions from such and like causes are only met with in the infant (see Diseases of Eectum, p. 709). 9. External hernia.—All forms of external herniae when strangulated, and generally when incarcerated or inflamed, are productive of intestinal obstruction [see Hernia, p. 676). Terminations of intestinal obstruction,—Whatever the cause of the obstruction, the intestine above becomes sooner or later enormously distended with faecal matter and flatus, and if the obstruction be not removed the case will terminate fatally from exhaustion, peritonitis, or ulceration or rupture of the intestine followed by collapse and peritonitis. The SYMPTOMS of intestinal obstruction vary according to the pathological conditions upon which the obstruction depends. The symptoms common to all may be said generally to be pain, vomiting, constipation, and more or less distension of the abdomen. When the obstruction