354 INJURIES OF REGIONS. are raised above the level of tlie surrounding bone, as may be detected by passing the finger along the scalp; while on pressing upon them with the finger-nail the blood may be displaced and the bone be felt beneath. As a rule, the blood becomes absorbed, but ossification at times occurs in the angle where the pericranium is raised from the bone. Treatment,—Under the use of evaporat- ing lotions the more superficial hsematomata will usually subside. It may sometimes be necessary, however, to aspirate those, more deeply situated. If suppuration occurs a free incision should be made. Wounds of the scalp vary in extent from a mere scratch to an extensive denudation of the bone, and, like other wounds, may be incised, lacerated, punctured, or contused. Though large portions of the scalp may be torn up from the bone, sloughing is very rare, as the arteries which supply the scalp run between the skin and the aponeurosis, and hence are contained in the flap. Scalp-wounds are frequently attended with sharp haemor- rhage ; they are also often associated with fracture of the skull, search for which should always be made by passing the finger into the wound. Moreover, they are apt to be complicated by erysipelas or cellulitis, with the formation of pus between the aponeurosis and the pericranium, and, where the bone has been much contused^ by suppuration beneath the pericranium, in the diploe, or between the bone and dura mater. Suppuration in any of these three situations may be followed by necrosis of the bone, by septicaemia or pyaemia, or by inflammation of the brain and its membranes. When a flap of the scalp has been completely detached, and even when the pericranium has also been lost, necrosis need not necessarily occur, since granulations may spring up from the bone, and cicatriza- tion follow. Treatment.—The scalp should be shaved around the wound, and the latter cleansed with antiseptics, and, if small and incised, closed with adhesive strapping over a pad of sal alembroth gauze and supported by a capeline or other form of bandage. When large portions of the scalp have been stripped up but not detached, the flaps should be carefully replaced, and secured by silver sutures. Haemorrhage is usually readily controlled by pressure, though occasionally it may be necessary to completely divide a partially torn artery or to apply a ligature. If the wound is extensive the patient should be kept at rest