INJURIES OF REGIONS. 374 of the bone; concussion, contusions, lacerations, and penetrating wounds of the brain. Pathology.—It may be acute or chronic; septic and diffuse, or simple and circumscribed. Acute inflammation may begin in the dura mater, and remain confined to that membrane [pacliymeningitis) or spread inwards to the other membranes and the brain; or it may begin in the brain, but then seldom spreads further outwards than the arachnoid {leptomeningitis). When it begins in the bone or in the dura mater it is at first circumscribed, the inflammatory products, and, should suppuration occur, the pus, being confined between the bone and dura mater. Later, the inflammation may spread to the arachnoid, and thence to the pia mater and surface of the brain, diffusing itself widely through the subdural space and over the cerebral cortex. When it begins in the brain it is generally the result of a contusion or laceration of the cerebral substance, and may remain circumscribed, and eventually end in a cerebral abscess, or spread to the pia mater and then become diffuse. It seldom, however, in- volves the free surface of the arachnoid. The post-mortem appearances commonly observed are increased vascularity of the brain and its membranes, an exudation of greenish- yellow lymph and distension of the ventricles with a serous blood-stained fluid ; whilst the grey-matter is of a reddish hue, soft and diffluent, and the white more abun- dantly dotted over with puncta vasculosa than natural. In the chronic form, which is generally due to inflamma- tion, caries or necrosis of the bone, or more rarely to a brain-in jury, the dura mater becomes thickened and adherent to the bone, the arachnoid thickened, and the pia mater opaque and indurated, so that when removed its prolongations, which dip between the convolutions, can be pulled out without tearing. The symptoms vary according as the inflammation is acute or chronic, diffuse or circumscribed; according as it begins in the dura mater or in the brain and pia mater; and according as it involves the vertex or base of the brain. The general symptoms in acute cases are in the early stages, fever, pain in the head, generally on the same side as the wound if one is present, intolerance of light and sound, retching with probably a clean tongue, a quick, full pulse, flushed face, contracted pupils, violent beating of the carotids, restlessness, sleeplessness, and at times violent delirium. Later the symptoms pass into