2 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. been done in animals, they would be seen to be trans- mitting more lymph than nnder normal conditions. The inflammation may now terminate, leaving the tissues apparently normal {resolution)^ or it may lead to certain changes producing irreparable damage to, or total de- struction of the part. Thus the process may become chronic and the tissues thickened and indurated [fibroid thickening); or the tissues in the centre of the inflamed spot may soften and break down, forming a creamy fluid called pus [suppuration and abscess); or the more super- ficial tissues may undergo molecular destruction, leaving a raw surface [ulceration); whilst again the whole of the tissues in the inflamed area may lose their vitality and die "en masse" [gangrene). When the inflammatory process is at all severe, constitutional symptoms will also be present. Thus, the temperature will be more or less raised, the skin dry, the pulse increased in rapidity, the tongue furred, the appetite lost, the bowels confined, and the urine scanty and high-coloured—a condition known as inflammatory fever. Under some circumstances the constitutional symptoms may be of a more serious character, and secondary inflammations may be set up in internal organs or in other parts of the body : the patient is then said to be suffering from septic or from infective poisoning, conditions which, as will be pointed out hereafter, are probably due to poisonous products entering the general blood-stream at the primary seat of inflammation. The minute changes which occur in the above-described phenomena have of late years been very accurately studied in the transparent parts of the mesentery of the frog, rabbit, and dog; and in sections of the cornea and tongue of the frog. They are divisible into (1) the changes occurring in the blood-vessels and their con- tents, and (2) the changes in the fixed tissue elements. The following is a brief summary of what is observed. 1. Changes in the blood-vessels and their contents.—After, in some instances, a momentary contraction, the vessels become dilated, the arteries first and then the capillaries and veins, and the blood in them flows with greater rapidity [determination of blood or active hypercemia), whilst smaller vessels which were previously invisible are now seen transmitting blood. Hence the redness of the part. Now, after a longer or shorter period, according to the kind of irritant used to set up the inflammation, the