COMPLICATIOlSrS OF GONORRHOEA. 769 discharge becomes thin and watery, and there is no longer pain on urination. The treatment varies according to the stage of the dis- ease. Generally it may be said that at the onset a smart purge should be given, and the bowels subsequently kept slightly relaxed by saline aperients; whilst, throughout its course, stimulants of all kinds must be withheld, demulcent drinks freely taken to dilute the urine, the parts kept scrupulously clean, the testicles supported in a suspensory bandage, and active exercise and exposure to cold and wet avoided. In the first stage the so-called abortive treatment is often successful. It consists in the use of astringent injections, and the internal administra- tion of such drugs as copaiva, cubebs, or sandal oil. An excellent plan is that suggested by Mr. Cheyne of passing a bougie composed of iodoform, oil of eucalyptus, and oil of theobroma, into the urethra after the patient has passed water, and allowing it to dissolve there, and sub- sequently injecting freely with a lotion of sulpho-car- bolate of zinc. The bougie should be repeated if neces- sary. In this way the disease may often be cured in a few days. In the second stage most Surgeons recommend a soothing plan of treatment, merely keeping the bowels relaxed, and giving such medicines as hyoscyamus, bicarbonate of potash, &c. Unless, however, the inflam- mation is very intense, injections of sulpho-carbolate or sulphate of zinc, or of tannic acid, may be safely used and will greatly lessen the duration of the disease. In the third stage, astringent injections, combined with the internal use of copaiva, cubebs, or sandal oil are indi- cated. This stage is often very difficult to cure, and where one remedy or injection fails, another must be tried. The passage of a full-sized bougie is at times of much service. Spring bougies coated with thallin have been lately highly recommended. Complications of Gonorrhcea. — Complications of some kind frequently occur during an acute attack of gonorrhoea. They may be conveniently classified accord- ing as they depend upon :—A. The local inflammation of the urethra—1, balanitis; 2, chordee; 3, phimosis; 4, paraphimosis ; 5, lacunar and perineal abscess; 6, reten- tion of urine; 7, warts; 8, stricture; 9, induration of the penis (rare). B. The extension of the inflammation along the genito-urinary mucous membrane—1, prostatitis; 2, cystitis; 3, Cowperitis ; 4, vesiculitis ; 5, epididymitis ; w. 3 b