481 STJBASTRAGALOID DISLOCATION. lateral varieties being compound, the nature of the injury is obvious. Treatment.—In the simple form attempts should always be made to push back the displaced bone into its socket, by making pressure in the proper direction, the calf-muscles being relaxed by position, the foot extended, and the tendo Achillis, or any other tendon or ligament that is felt tense, divided if necessary. An ansesthetic is generally required. If reduction is then found impossible, the rule is to leave the displaced bone alone, and only to excise it if sloughing threatens or has actually occurred. Seeing, however, how successful are the results of excision of the astragalus for intractable cases of club-foot, I should myself, if I failed to reduce the bone, remove it at once. In a compound dislocation the bone should, as a rule, be excised. The STJBASTRAGALOID DISLOCATION is one in which the bones of the foot are displaced from the astragalus, which itself retains its natural connections with the tibia and fibula. The foot is generally displaced either back- wards and inwards, or backwards and outwards; more rarely in the opposite directions. In the backward and inward variety (Fig. 160) the foot is inverted, the sole looks inwards, the external malleolus is prominent, the in- ternal malleolus is buried by the projection of the oscalcis beyond it, and the head of the astragalus forms a distinct prominence on the outer side of the instep, over which prominence the skin is tightly stretched. In the back- Xv^ard and outward variety the foot is everted instead of inverted, the internal malleolus is prominent, the external buried, and the astragalus projects on the inner side of the instep. The forward varieties are too rare to require description. The normal relations of the head of the astragalus to the malleoli, together with the signs above given, will serve to distinguish it from dislocation of the astragalus alone, the injury with which it is most liable to be confounded. Treatment. — In the back- - ward varieties the foot should be drawn forwards, whilst the leg is forced backwards, the tendo Achillis and the tibialis anticus and posticus being divided if necessary, and the patient put under an anaesthetic. Eeduction is sometimes very difficult or even im- possible in consequence of the tibial tendons hooking round the head of the astragalus, or of the mutual interlocking of the bones. After reduction the foot should be placed on a splint, and an ice-bag applied. If w. II