SEPTICEMIA. 157 it has also been met with in the upper j aw, the tongue, the respiratory and alimentary tracts, and in the subcutaneous and intermuscular tissues. It was formerly included under the names of osteo-sarcoma, wooden tongue, bone cancer, tubercle, &c. Symptoms,—In the lower jaw it is commonly met with about the socket of a carious tooth. A great deal of thickening occurs in the surrounding bone, and abscesses are formed in the neighbouring connective tissue. On the opening of the abscesses sinuses are left leading to the swelling, which is found to consist in part of tough fibrous tissue and in part of soft vascular granulation-tissue filling cavities in the bone. The escaping pus contains the grain- like masses of the fungus which are characteristic of the disease. When the disease occurs in bones other than the jaw, it gives rise to a growth with characters similar to those mentioned above. When it begins in the lung it may spread to the pleura and then extend widely in the chest walls. From the intestine it may invade the peri- toneum and abdominal walls. In whatever situation it begins, however, it steadily spreads until it kills either by exhaustion or by involving some vital organ. Diagnosis,—The disease perhaps most resembles tuber- culous ulceration or a fibre- or myxo-sarcoma attended by profuse suppuration. The presence of the parasite in the pus will clear up any doubt as to the nature of the disease. Treatment.—The only efficient treatment is the complete removal of the growth, whilst it is still local, by excision and scraping. In the lower jaw this has been attended with complete success. When the disease is too extensive to admit of removal, free drainage and antiseptics should be used as palliatives. General Infective Diseases. Septicemia or septic infection.—The term septi- caemia is here restricted to the condition known as septic infection; septic intoxication, which has hitherto been included under the term septicaemia, has been already described under the head of sapraemia. Septicaemia, in this sense, is an infectious disease due to inoculation with a specific virus which multiplies in the blood and is pro- bably of the nature of a micro-organism. Cause.—The essential cause is the introduction of the