PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OP THE EYE. 525 the anterior chamber, and the iris as to its colour, polish and pupillary aperture. The normal pupil is from 3*5 to 5 mm. in diameter, circular, regular, slightly to the nasal side of the centre of the cornea, and equal to and varying with its fellow under different degrees of illumination. The pupil should con- tract:—on light being thrown into the same eye [direct light reflex)^ on light being thrown into the opposite eye [consensual light reflex)^ and on accommodation or on the convergent movements of the eye associated with accom- modation (accommodation reflex). It should dilate on one or both eyes being shaded, and also on stimulation of a sensory nerve [sensory reflex). Atropine, homatropine, &c. produce a dilated pupil [mydriasis) inactive to any of the reflexes; cocaine causes mydriasis, but the pupil still acts to the contraction reflexes; eserine, pilocarpine, &c. produce a contracted pupil [miosis) always dilating slightly on shading or on relaxation of accommodation. The pupil is influenced by the blood supply, and if there is congestion of the iris it is contracted [congestion miosis). (2.) Examination loith the ophthalmoscope. —The ophthal- moscope in its simplest form consists of a silvered glass concave mirror, of about 20 centimetres focal length, with a central aperture (sight hole) of 3 millimetres diameter, fitted on a suitable handle. If required for estimating refraction, lenses are arranged to pass be- hind the sight hole. The methods of usmg it are divided into (a), direct and (5), indirect, and are much easier with a dilated pupil; for this object homatropine or ' homatropine and cocaine should be used if possible. [a). To use the direct method the patient should be sitting with the light at first just above and behind the head, the observer being about four feet away. Throw the reflection of the light from the ophthalmoscope-mirror through the pupil, and observe through the sight hole the pupillary area as a red colour [red reflex). On now slowly rotating the mirror horizontally and vertically a shadow is seen if the refraction is abnormal (ametropic), and this shadow moves in the same direction as the mirror in myopia, and in the opposite direction in hypermetropia and in myopia of less than one dioptre, [lietinoscopy.) Approaching closer to the patient examine the media, and observe if any objects other than retinal vessels and the optic disk are seen. If so, on telling the patient to move his eye in different directions, these objects, which