810 DISEASES OF BEGtOKS. or other cHange in the vessels or chronic inflammation of the tunica vaginalis. Pathology.—The effused blood may be absorbed, or it may clot and be deposited on the walls of the sac, giving the hsematocele an appearance like an aneurysm (Fig. 315) ; or the central portions of the clot may break down into a chocolate-coloured fluid, which under the microscope is seen to consist of disintegrating blood-corpuscles and hsematin and cholesterin crystals. At times suppura- tion may take place, the fluid in the sac then consisting of a mixture of broken-down blood and pus. Calcification of the walls in old-standing cases may occur. Signs and diagnosis,—Hsematocele comes on suddenly, appearing as a smooth, tense or semi-fluctuating, oval or globular, non-translucent swelling in the scrotum. At first there may be considerable pain in the testicle and ecchymosis of the scrotum; but later, neither as a rule will be present. Testicular sensation is generally dis- covered behind the swelling. The freedom of the cord and absence of impulse on coughing should at once serve to diagnose it from a hernia, and its non-translucency from a hydrocele. But from malignant or other growths it is often difficult to distinguish it; and, indeed, in some cases it is only after puncture with a grooved needle or even after an exploratory incision, that this can be done. The history of its sudden onset, its shape, the absence of the varying consistency noted in malignant disease, the non-involvement of the glands or of the cord, and the presence of testicular sensation posteriorly, should help in the diagnosis. On puncture a chocolate-coloured fluid escapes in the one case; arterial blood, or nothing at all, in the other. Treatment.—When the hsematocele is recent, rest in bed, the application of cold or of evaporating lotions, and the elevation of the part on a pillow, may lead to the absorp- tion of the blood. If this fails, the blood may be with- drawn with a trocar and cannula. When such is done, however, the sac in my experience generally refills, and I believe time is gained in the end by at once making a free incision into the sac, turning out the clots, securing any bleeding vessel that may be seen, and allowing the wound to heal by granulations. In long-standing cases, and especially when the walls are much thickened, this treatment is clearly indicated, but if, on laying the sac open, the walls are found of cartilaginous consistency,