DISEASES OE REGIOI^S. 802 removal of the inguinal glands if enlarged and hard. If the testicle is involved it should be excised at the same time. The skin of the part is very lax, and although the testicle may be denuded it rapidly becomes covered in. QEdema oe the scrotum, owing to the laxity of the tissues, is common. It may occur in kidney and heart disease as part of the general dropsy, or it may be caused by inflammation of the neighbouring parts, as the tes- ticle. It is also met with in extravasation of urine, and may occur after an operation for hernia, varicocele, &c. Erysipelas oe the scrotum may be the result of slight injuries, abrasions, &c., or may occur idiopathi- cally. It is attended with great swelling, redness and oedema, and is very liable to terminate in extensive sloughing and gangrene. The same general and local treatment should be adopted as described under Ery- sipelas, with free and early incisions should suppuration threaten. Eczema and prurigo of the scrotum require no special mention. Elephantiasis scroti is an enormously hypertrophied condition of the skin and connective tissue of the scrotum, and probably depends (like a somewhat similar condition known as lymjph-scrotum^ in which a milky fluid exudes from the skin), on the presence in the blood of the filaria sanguinis hominis. The disease is common in the East, but is seldom met with in this country, and then hardly ever except in those who have lived in the East. The penis is sometimes a:ffected in a similar manner. Treatment,—The hypertrophied mass may be dissected o& the testicle and penis, after elevating it for some hours before the operation in order to drain it as much as possible of blood. The base of the mass during the opera- should be constricted by an elastic band. Hydrocele is a collection of serous fluid in connection with the testicle or spermatic cord. There are several varieties of hydrocele. Thus, the fluid may be contained in the tunica vaginalis {common or vaginal hydrocele); and this is further spoken of as congenital when the tunica vaginalis communicates, through the non-obliteration of its funicular process, with the general peritoneal cavity, or as acute when associated with acute inflammation of the testicle or epididymis. Again, the fluid may be contained in a cyst in connection with the testicle or epididymis [encysted hydrocele of the testicle or epididymis), or con-