INJURIES OF BONES. 1/0 compared with the sound side. The general signs of fracture are:—1. Alteration in the shape of the part; 2. Swelling; 3. Loss of function; 4. Preternatural mobility; 5. Shortening; 6. Pain; 7. Crepitus; 8. The sensation of a sudden snap or giving way of the bone experienced by the patient. No one of the above signs alone, except crepitus, is absolutely diagnostic of fracture; and crepitus itself, when the fragments are impacted, may be absent, or may be simulated by joint-crepitus, effusion into the sheaths of tendons, emphysema, and by the grating of osteophytes in chronic osteo-arthritis. True crepitus, however, having been once felt, can hardly afterwards be mistaken; it is readily distinguished from false crepitus by its harsher and more grating character. The shortening may be natural or due to some previous injury or disease, as a former fracture, osteo-arthritis, &c.; it also occurs in dislocation. Increased mohility may not be present, as when a fracture is firmly impacted. Pain may, of course, occur from causes other than fracture; it may often be elicited in fracture when crepitus cannot be obtained. Siuelling, loss of f unction, and alteration in the shape of the part may be present in other injuries, but are useful signs in some forms of fracture. Too much weight, it need hardly be said, should not be given to the patient's sensations, as a snap or feeling of the bone giving way may occur in rupture of a tendon, ligament, &c. The Diagnosis is often difficult, especially :—1. When the fracture is near, or extends into, a joint, owing to effusion of blood, or synovial fluid into the joint-cavity* 2. When there is great extravasation of blood, or later, effusion of inflammatory products about the fragments. 3. When the fracture is transverse, and there is no dis- placement, especially if the fragments are held in position by a companion bone, as the fibula in fracture of the tibia. 4. When the fracture is subperiosteal. In the cranium, a simple uncomplicated fissured fracture cannot be diagnosed. \- How to obtain crepitus,—Grasp the limb firmly above and below the suspected fracture, and when there is shortening, make extension to bring the rough surfaces into contact. Then gently attempt to move the lower on the upper fragment. Having once assured yourself that crepitus is present, desist from your manipulations, as they not only give the patient pain, but injure the soft parts. In some cases, as in fractui'e of the neck of the