RUPTURED PERINEUM. 431 EOREIGN BODIES IN THE FEMALE URETHRA AND BLADDER.—Hair-pins introduced with the bent end for- wards, are not infrequently pushed up the urethra into the bladder, where, if allowed to remain, they become encrusted with phosphates, and give rise to symptoms of stone. The urethra should be dilated, and the sharp ends of the hair-pin grasped by forceps, snared in a tube, or in some such way remoyed. EuPTURED PERINEUM occasionally occurs during first, and especially instrumental labours. There may be a mere rent in the fourchette; or the rupture may extend from the vagina through the sphincter ani into the rectum, and involve more or less of the recto-vaginal septum. Symptoms.—A rupture, when slight, gives rise to no special trouble ; but when more extensive, there may be some prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina with the contiguous wall of the rectum {rectocele)^ or of the anterior wall of the vagina and the part of the bladder in contact with it {vesicocele), and, perhaps, some prolapse of the uterus. There may also be frequent micturition, and when the sphincter ani is involved, occasional inconti- nence of faeces. Treatment,—An attempt to unite the parts should always be made immediately after the rupture by intro- ducing several wire sutures. Should this fail, no harm will have been done, and a plastic operation can be sub- sequently performed. Such, however, should not be undertaken until the vaginal discharge has ceased, the child been weaned, and the general health restored. The patient in the meantime should not be allowed to walk about, for fear of a prolapse of the parts. The operation consists in refreshing the sides of the rupture, and uniting them by suture. The bowels having been cleared by an aperient, and the rectum on the morning of the operation by an enema, the patient should be placed in the litho- tomy position, and the skin dissected off from the sides of the fissure, and the mucous membrane from the recto- vaginal septum, so as to leave a raw surface of the size and shape shown in Fig. 124. The skin and mucous membrane should not be cut away as shown in the figure but reflected towards the vagina. Care should be taken that the tissues are clean cut, and that the raw surface of the recto-vaginal septum is at least an inch broad, so that immediate and firm union when the parts are brought