40 GEN^ERAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. nodules. They are generally multiple and often confluent, forming an irregular indolent sore. The edges are pale, bluish-pink, thin, and undermined. The granulations are pale, oedematous, protruding, and readily bleed when touched. The discharge is thin, yellowish-green and scanty. Enlarged glands and cicatrices of former ulcers are frequently present in their near neighbourhood. The cicatrices are generally raised, pale pink or white, whilst the skin is often puckered in around them. Treatment.— Constitutionally that for struma and tubercle. Locally the sore should be destroyed by paring away the edges and scraping the base with a Yolkmann's spoon. The cicatrices may sometimes be dispersed by repeated blis- terings or by subcutaneous division. Syphilitic ulcers. — Primary ulcers or chancres are described under syphilis. Those occurring in the course of constitutional syphilis may be divided into the super- ficial and deep, (a.) The superficial occur in the course of pustular and tubercular syphilides, and are often asso- ciated with patches of these eruptions on other parts of the body. They are usually circular or crescentic in shape, spreading by their convex margin, and healing on their concave. Their edges are sharp-cut and often surrounded by an areola of dusky redness ; their base is but slightly depressed, and of a dark red colour, and is often covered by a yellow slough, or a rupial or ecthyma- tous scab. Several of these ulcers frequently coalesce, giving rise to a serpiginous or annular form of ulceration, which is very characteristic of syphilis, (h.) The deep are due to the breaking down of gummata. They are circular or oval in shape ; their edges are steep, sharp-cut, slightly scooped out, and of a dull red colour; and their base is depressed and covered with a yellow wet-wash- leather-like slough and the debris of breaking-down tissue. They leave slightly depressed, white cicatrices, often surrounded with pigmentation. Treatment.—Con- stitutionally, iodide of potassium should be given in full doses, combined in obstinate cases with small doses of mercury; whilst locally a poultice may be applied till the slough has separated, and then black wash, iodoform, or the red oxide of mercury ointment. Gouty ulcers are such as are met with over gouty parts. They are small and superficial, and the discharge as it dries leaves a chalk-like deposit of urate of soda on the surface of the ulcer. The treatment is that for gout,