38 GET^ERAL PATHOLOGY OE SITRaiCAL DISEASES. genie micrococci found in all ulcers, but liere acting with greater intensity in a vitiated constitution. The ulcer spreads with great rapidity, the edges are utfdermined, inverted, and dusky red, and the base is covered by an ash-grey or black slough. There is commonly much pain and severe constitutional fever. The treatment is similar to that of the inflamed variety. Antiseptics should be freely used if the ulcer is foul, and opium given if there is much pain. When due to syphilis, the proper remedies for that affection should, of course, be given; but mercury should be used cautiously, or be altog^ether withheld till the sloughing has ceased. The ;phagedcmic ulcer^ owing to improved sanitation and hygiene, and the more scientific treatment of wounds, is seldom seen at the present day, except in connection with venereal disease in persons whose constitution is thoroughly broken down by intemperance, poor living, and general neglect. The edges of the ulcer are irregular, swollen, and undermined, and the skin around is of a dark, purplish, and dusky red colour. The surface is devoid of granulations, and covered with a dark blood-stained ichorous discharge often mixed with sloughs. When the sloughing proceeds to any extent, the ulceration is spoken of as sloughing phagedcena. The ulcer spreads with fearful rapidity, and often destroys the whole organ, as the penis or vulva, and is attended with severe constitutional dis- turbance. Treatment. — The patient should be placed under an anaesthetic, the surface of the ulcer dried, and then thoroughly destroyed with fuming nitric acid. I prefer this method myself as being most efficacious and radical in its action. Some surgeons are content, how- ever, merely to apply carbolic acid (1 in 20) or per- chloride of mercury (1 in 1000), and then dust with iodoform. The continuous use of the hot bath is often of much service in phagedeena of the penis and vulva. Internally opium should be given in full doses, with tonics, nourishing diet, and when indicated, stimulants. Thorough ventilation and good hygiene generally are imperative. The chronic, callous, or indolent ulcer.—This condition of an ulcer is the result of continued irritation and neglect, in consequence of which the edges become infiltrated with inflammatory material, which impedes the circulation and prevents healing. It is very common in the lower third of the leg in the poorer classes, The edg^s are sniQOth,