184 INJURIES or SPECIAL TISSUES. expense of keeping it in good order, and especially where the fracture is in the shaft of the humerus, an operation may be undertaken. Such operations may be divided into two classes—1, those haying for their object the setting up of inflammation about the ends of the frag- ments, or in the fibrous tissue uniting them, and so inducing ossification; and 2, the cutting out of the false joint, and bringing the refreshed surfaces of the bone into apposition, and keeping them there till union has occurred. Among the former, which are applicable to an ununited fracture rather than to a false joint, may be mentioned —1, the subcutaneous scraping of the ends of the frag- ments ; 2, passing a seton between them; and 3, cutting down upon and inserting iyory pegs into the fragments. Of these the subcutaneous method appears attended with the least risk, and is the one that should as a rule be first undertaken. The passage of a seton is highly dangerous. The operation for cutting out a false joint consists in making an incision down to the bone, and then chiselling or sawing away obliquely the ends of the fragments and wiring them together, or fixing them by ivory or metal pegs. This operation, though attended with less risk than formerly, is still a grave one, and should only be undertaken after the case has been fairly weighed in all its aspects. Eecently in ununited fractures with loss of substance from necrosis, the gap has been filled by grafting a piece of bone between the fragments. The grafts may be obtained from a young animal, or from a limb imme- diately after amputation. In one successful case, wedge- shaped pieces of bone, removed in osteotomy of the tibia were used. Whilst being transferred the grafts should be kept at a temperature of 100° in a capsule containing boiled salt solution (5j to Oj). Malunited euacture or vicious union.—1. Frac- tures in consequence of having been improperly set or not kept at rest in a good position, may unite at an angle (Fig. 42), or in some other faulty direction. 2. If splints have been removed too early, or if in the case of the lower extremity the patient has been allowed to walk too soon, the callus may yield, and deformity result. 3. Two adjacent bones, as the radius and ulna in the fore- arm, may become united to each other by callus (Fig. 43). 4. A greenstick fracture from neglect to straighten the partially bent bone before applying splints may con- solidate in its distorted condition.