224 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TlSStTES. flaps separate, and the periosteum recedes, leaving the end of the bone exposed. A fungous mass of granula- tions generally protrudes from the medulla of the divided bone. Treatment,—In the idiopathic variety an early and free incision through the periosteum to the bone should be at once made. In traumatic cases every effort should be directed towards rendering the wound aseptic, and en- suring an efficient drain. Of late, considerable success appears to have attended the scraping out of the inflamed medulla from the affected bone, and then insufflating the cavity with iodoform. The constitutional treatment should be similar to that described under acute periostitis. Should blood-poisoning (saprcernia) threaten, the question of amputation must be raised. If this is decided on it should be done through the knee-, elbow-, or shoulder- joints, if the bones of the leg, forearm, or arm are involved, so as to avoid again cutting through cancellous bone. Amputation at the hip-joint is in itself so serious an operation that it is an open question whether it should be undertaken in the case of osteo-myelitis of the femur. The operation, however, is less dangerous than formerly, and as it holds out the only chance its propriety should certainly be discussed if the case is seen early. When septicaemia or pysemia is already fully established ampu- tation should not be undertaken. Chronic osteo-myelitis can hardly be distinguished from chronic osteitis. Indeed, in chronic inflammation of bone the soft tissues lining the medulla, cancellous spaces, and Haversian canals are generally equally involved in the process, as is also frequently the periosteum. At times, however, the inflammation may be more or less limited to the medullary membrane, and to the layers of bone contiguous to it, and may then terminate either in central necrosis, or in ossification and the consequent obliteration of the medullary cavity {osteo-sclerosis). Osteitis, or inflammation of the bone itself, is always associated with some amount of inflammation of the peri- osteum and of the medullary membrane, and hence it is often difficult in any given pathological specimen to deter- mine whether it is one primarily of osteitis, periostitis, or osteo-myelitis. It may occur in any bone, or in any part of a bone, but is most frequent in the cancellous ends of the long bones, in the cancellated bones of the tarsus and carpus, and in the bodies of the vertebrae. The term