147 ERYSIPELAS. nourishment and the judicious administration of stimu- lants, and the subsequent anaemia combated by iron and quinine. ^ Local Infective Diseases, Erysipelas is an infective, diffusely spreading inflam- mation, commonly affecting the skin or subcutaneous tissue, or both, less frequently the mucous membranes or submucous tissue, and still more rarely the serous mem- branes and the connective tissue in such situations as the pelvis, orbit, &c. Cause.—Erysipelas depends u]Don the introduction of an infective poison into the system ; but for this to act it appears necessary that the vitality of the body should be lowered, and the tissues in consequence rendered less able to resist the injurious influence of the poison. The causes, therefore, may be divided into the predisposing and the exciting, the predisposing again into those that are general and those that are local. The general predisposing causes are such as pertain either to {a) the state of nutrition of the bodj'-, or {h) its environ- ment, {a). Among the conditions that predispose to the disease by inducing an impaired state of the tissues are —1, chronic alcoholism ; 2, Bright's disease ; 3, diabetes; 4, gout; 5, malignant disease; 6, insufficienf: food; 7, want of exercise combined with high living ; 8, previous attacks of the disease, {h). Among the causes that pertain ' to the environment of the body are bad hygienic conditions of all kinds, as—1, imperfect ventilation; 2, defective drains; 3, accumulation of the products of decomposing organic matter; 4, overcrowding ; 5, want of cleanliness ; 6, a large number of suppurating wounds in an hospital; and, 7, probably certain not altogether understood atmo- spheric influences. The local predisposing cause is the presence of a wound, scratch, or abrasion of the surface, [ and especially of a lacerated wound, or one in which the discharge is undergoing putrefaction. The exciting cause is the introduction of some infective poison into the system. This poison is probably not the same in each form of the disease. In the cutaneous form it would appear from the observations of Eehleisen, to be a species of micrococcus, the streptococcus erysipelatosus. It had been known for some time that micrococci existed in the spreading margin of cutaneous erysipelas. L 2