INJIJEIES OF REGIONS. 386 ing dyspnoea or loss of voice from (a), constriction during cicatrization, or{h), formation of prominent granulations; and 5, QEsophageal or tracheal fistula. Treatment.—The haemorrhage must be arrested; the air-passages cleared if obstructed with blood, by suction if necessary; and artificial respiration resorted to if the patient has already ceased to breathe. If the tongue or epiglottis is divided it must be fixed by sutures, or if a portion of the epiglottis is loose it may be cut ofp. The wound, unless quite superficial, should not as a rule be approximated by suture or strapping, but by position, the patient being propped up by pillows and the head bent forwards. The cartilages of the larynx, if displaced, may be brought together by suture, as may also the trachea if divided. When the oesophagus is wounded the edges may be united by suturing the muscular coat the mucous mem- brane being turned inwards, and the patient fed by a tube passed through the mouth and beyond the wound, or at first entirely by the rectum. Tracheotomy may have to be performed if respiration is embarrassed by displacement of the laryngeal cartilages or by oedema of the glottis. When the air-passages are opened the precautions de- scribed under Tracheotomy must be taken to prevent lung-trouble. Suppuration must be watched for, and free exit given to pus as soon as detected. Contusion of the larynx may be caused by blows or kicks of all kinds and manual compression as in garot- ting. Symptoms.—Pain, especially on handling, localized swelling or ecchymosis, alteration or loss of voice, and slight haemoptysis when the mucous membrane is lacerated. Unless there is much bleeding there is usually no dyspnoea, though this may subsequently be present should spasm or oedema of the glottis supervene. Severe compression of the larynx is said at times to have been instantly fatal from spasm of the glottis. The treat- ment should be directed towards allaying pain and pre- venting inflammation. Thus, a lead and opium lotion or an ice-bag may be applied over the larynx, and all attempts at speaking prohibited. Should signs of oedema- tous laryngitis appear, leeches, followed by hot fomenta- tions, may be placed over the thyroid cartilage, whilst scarification of the glottis, and if this fails and suffocation threatens, intubation of the larynx or tracheotomy must be performed. Subcutaneous rupture oe the trachea is a rare