GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. 114 Where his strength is much reduced by long-continued suppuration or chronic disease, efforts must be made to improve his general health by nourishing diet and the judicious employment of stimulants. Varieties oe open wounds. — Open wounds are divided into incised, lacerated, contused, punctured, and poisoned. Incised wounds are such as have their edges evenly divided and their surfaces smoothly cut. They are usually inflicted by sharp instruments, and are those commonly made by the Surgeon in operating. The danger which is particularly liable to attend them is haemorrhage. Healing is generally accomplished by the first intention, provided the proper means are employed. Treatment.—What has been said under the treatment of wounds generally, applies especially to this variety. Lacerated ivounds are those in which the tissues forming the surface and edges of the wound are irregularly torn. They are commonly caused by machinery and by the goring and bites of animals. There is usually but little haemorrhage, in consequence of the vessels being torn rather than cut across. The chief dangers are profuse suppuration, tetanus, saprsemia, erysipelas, and extensive scarring. Healing is generally accomplished by the second intention, the dead portions of the lacerated tissues being first thrown off by ulceration in the way described under Gangrene. In some situations and under favourable conditions, however, a large part of the wound may heal by the first intention. Treatment.— Special attention should be paid to the cleansing of the wound and establishing a free drain. Any portions of the tissues which have obviously lost their vitality should be cut away. Sutures should not as a rule be applied, but the wound should be dressed by one of the methods before described, and the parts placed at rest. Contused wounds are those in which the tissues forming the surface and edges are extensively bruised. They are usually made with blunt instruments, or with such agents as distribute the force over a large surface. There is commonly considerable extravasation of blood amongst the bruised tissues, though usually but little external haemorrhage. The chief dangers are extensive inflamma- tion and sloughing, secondary haemorrhage on the separa- tion of the sloughs, spreading gangrene, erysipelas or