282 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. become involved in the inflammation and destroyed; 4, the phalanx may necrose; 5, septicaemia or pyaemia may ensue. Signs,—Intense and throbbing pain, acute tenderness on pressure, and swelling and induration of the finger, followed by a similar condition of the palm, and often by great oedema of the back of the hand, which may perhaps extend up the forearm. The lymphatics may become tender and inflamed, and the lymphatic glands in the axilla enlarged. Exhaustion from pain and want of sleep, feverish symptoms, and at times signs of blood-poisoning may ensue. Diagnosis.—Acute septic inflammation of the pulp of the finger is very apt to be mistaken for true thecal whitlow. The diagnosis of these two conditions is most important, since in the former affection if free incisions are made into the inflamed part, leaving the tendon sheath intact, the tendon will be saved, whereas if the affection is mistaken for thecal abscess, and the sheath opened, the septic material will invade the sheath and the tendon will probably be destroyed. The history of the case and the severity of the symptoms will guide us somewhat, but perhaps the most important sign in distinguishing the two aJffections is one pointed out by Mr. Morrant Baker, viz., "the power or the loss of it on the part of the patient of flexing voluntarily the distal phalanx." In true thecal whitlow this power is much impaired or lost, whilst in mere septic inflammation of the pulp, although the finger may appear hopelessly spoiled, it is ' ^ markedly and strongly retained." Treatment,—The chief indication is to relieve tension, and thus prevent the strangulation of the vessels and consequent death of the tendon, and the spread of the inflammation into the palm or to the periosteum covering the phalanx. For this purpose, a free incision is generally recommended in the middle line of the finger extending into the sheath, or to the bone if the periosteum is a:ffected. Mr. Heath, however, advises that the incisions should be made at the side of the finger, but should not in this position open the sheath, since if this is done he says the tendon invariably sloughs. He opens the sheath by a small incision through the palm over the head of the metacarpal bone. Should suppuration occur in the forearm the pus of course must be let out by timely incisions. The pain in the meanwhile will be greatly relieved by placing the whole forearm for several hours at a time in a bath kept