857 TKEATMENT OF TALIPES. be felt; tbe tenotome should then be entered midway between the anterior and posterior border of the leg, and at right angles to the surface. Syndesmotomy consists in dividing the contracted liga- ments which, after tenotomy, are frequently found to hold the foot in the deformed position. It is performed by passing a tenotome deeply into the foot over the situation of the ligaments to be divided, and cutting freely through them whilst they are put on the stretch by an assistant manipulating the foot. The position of the foot should then be rectified by wrenching, and a plaster-of-Paris bandage applied. Tarsedomy has for its object the removal of certain bones or portions of bones from the tarsus, so as to allow the foot to be at once restored to its normal position. It should only be undertaken in inveterate cases after milder measures have failed. The operations most fre- quently performed are Davy's, or the removal of a wedge-shaped piece of bone from the tarsus; and Lund's, or the excision of the astragalus. Tarsotomy is the operation of dividing the tarsus trans- versely with a chain saw, and, like tarsectomy, should only be done in inveterate cases. Mechanical treatment.—Until recently it was usual to keep the foot in the deformed position till the tendon had united, and then bring the foot slowly into its normal position by gradually stretching the divided tendon. The apparatus usually employed was some form of Scarpa's shoe {Fig. 331) or other cog-wheel contrivance. By the majority of Surgeons, however, plaster of Paris is now substituted for such expensive apparatus, the foot being secured at once in the plaster in the best possible position. In slight cases division of the tendon will alone be sufficient to allow of this; in more severe cases the division of the ligaments will also be necessary, whilst in very severe cases removal of a portion of bone will be required. If plaster of Paris is used a cotton- wool bandage should always be employed beneath the plaster to prevent injurious pressure on the parts. The Fig. 331.—Scarpa's shoe.