557 EPITHELIOMA. poisoning. Pree incisions should be made, the sloughs scraped away, antiseptics applied, and the strength sup- ported by fluid nourishment and stimulants. Adenomata, or labial glandular tumours (Paget), occasionally occur in the lip as small, smooth, elastic growths projecting under the mucous membrane. They sometimes contain nodules of cartilage, and are then of harder consistency. They should be removed from the mucous surface to avoid scarring. Cysts due to obstruction of the mucous follicles are frequent in the lip. They contain a glairy fluid, and appear as small, tense, semi-translucent, globular, bluish- pink swellings on the mucous surface. A free incision through the mucous membrane, and removal of the cyst- wall with forceps, is perhaps the best treatment. Epithelioma nearly always occurs in men, and on the lower lip ; and although it may affect non-smokers, it generally appears to be due to the irritation and heat of a short clay pipe. It begins as a crack, small ulcer, or in- durated tubercle, and may either spread superficially along the free margin of the lip, or extenddeeplyinto its substance. Sooner or later it involves the whole lip and adjoining parts, becomes adherent to the jaw, and invades the bone. The lyniphatic glands in the neck become involved, but dissemination through internal organs is rare. If removed early, it may not recur till after a long period of immunity, or perhaps not at all. It seldom returns in the scar, but in the lymphatic glands, the patient dying of exhaustion induced by ulcerating and bleeding masses in the neck. The affection is very apt to be mistaken for hard chancre^ and the latter has ere now been cut away under the impression that it was an epithelioma. The following points should serve to distinguish them:—1. Epithelioma generally occurs in the old, and in men, and on the lower lip; chancre in the young, in women, and on the upper lip. 2. The epitheliomatous ulcer has hard, sinuous, and everted edges, and an indurated and warty base; the chancrous is raised, excoriated, smoother, and the in- duration is more circumscribed. 3. In the malignant a:ffection, the glands are not affected till late in the disease—perhaps six months; in the syphilitic early, say six weeks. Moreover, in chancre secondary symptoms will be present or soon appear, and the disease readily yields to antisyphilitic remedies. Treatment,—Eree and early excision is imperative. The growth may be either