590 DISEASES OF REGIONS. easy. The signs are similar to tumours of the upper jaw, which see (p. 586). Treatment.—Cystic tumours are best treated by free incision, and, if large, by excision of a portion of their wall. In the case of the multilocular cysts the whole or part of the jaw may be removed. In excising solid innocent tumours no more of the bone should be sacri- ficed than is necessary to extirpate the disease ; and such removal, when possible, should be done from within the mouth. Myeloid growths springing from the interior of the bone may often be enucleated, and not recur for many years, ^or not at all. Where the tumour is large and encroaches upon the ramus, the affected half of the jaw, or if both halves are affected, the whole jaw, should be removed by disarticulation, as if the ramus is merely sawn across, leaving the coronoid process and condyle, these are apt to be drawn forward by the temporal and external pterygoid muscles and prove a constant source of annoyance. When the growth is malignant or of large size, and the skin and neighbouring soft parts are implicated and the glands extensively involved, no operation as a rule is admissible. Cysts developed in connection with solid growths may be laid open and the tumour scraped away, or part or the whole of the jaw, if the growth is malignant, may be removed. Excision oe the lower jaw.—Having extracted the central or the lateral incisor tooth, make an incision down to the bone (in the way shown in the black line in Fig. 214) through the lower lip, along the lower border of the jaw, and thence up the ramus, nearly but not quite to the lobule of the ear to avoid the facial nerve, tying both ends of the facial artery as it is cut. Dissect up the flap thus formed from the bone, and divide the bone with saw and forceps opposite to where the tooth has been extracted. Seize the bone with the lion forceps, drawing it outwards and ■upwards, and divide the soft tissues on the inner sur- face with a narrow-bladed scalpel, keeping close to the bone to avoid the gustatory nerve and the submaxillary gland. The origin of the genio-hyo-glossus should be spared if possible, as otherwise the tongue tends to fall backwards, and has before now caused suffocation. If this muscle must be divided, pull the tongue forward by a ligature through its tip. Next separate the internal pterygoid, depress the jaw, and divide the temporal muscle at its insertion into the coronoid process. Open