SYMPTOMS OF lOTESTmAL OBSTRUCTION. 657 occurs suddenly, and is attended by strangulation of a portion of intestine, as in 1, the various forms of constric- tion produced by bands; 2, a portion of intestine slipping through a hole in the mesentery or omentum; 3, volvu- lus, and 4, external strangulated hernia, the symptoms are also sudden in their onset and acute in their course, as is likewise generally the case when they depend upon intussusception, the impaction of a gall-stone or other foreign body, the sudden accumulation of fseces above a stricture, or acute enteritis or peritonitis. Thus the pain is severe and violent, and occurs suddenly in a person in previously good health; the vomiting comes on early, and may rapidly become faecal; the constipation is com- plete from the first; flatus will not pass by the anus; the urine may be scanty or suppressed; there is frequently hiccough and tympanites ; and the patient soon falls into a state of extreme collapse and dies. When, on the other hand, the ohstrudion comes on more slowly, and a portion of intestine is obstructed rather than strangulated, as from (1) progressive stricture of the rectum or colon; (2) the pressure of an abdominal or pelvic tumour; (3) the gluing of the intestines together by chronic peritonitis or cancer; (4) the gradual accumulation of faeces, due to habitual constipation, and (5) chronic intussusception, the symptoms are also insidious in their onset and chronic in their course. Thus, obscure abdominal symptoms may have existed for some time. The pain is less severe, more diffused, and may be intermittent, but increases with the distension. Yomiting only occurs late in the course of the affection, and does not become faecal till towards the last. Consti- pation is not complete at first, the motions may be scyba- lous, and there may be a history of alternating constipa- tion and diarrhoea. The distension of the abdomen is gradual and is, perhaps, more marked in the lumbar and epigastric regions. The abdomen appears broad, and coils of intestine may be visible owing to increased peri- stalsis consequent upon hypertrophy of their muscular coat. The urine is normal. A stricture may perhaps be felt in the rectum by the finger or in the sigmoid flexure by passing the hand. Collapse does not come on till the end. Such, broadly, may be said to be the sjmiptoms attend- ing acute and chronic intestinal obstruction. But it must not be forgotten that the conditions which commonly give rise to chronic symptoms may, at any time, suddenly ter- minate in complete obstruction and strangulation, when u u