741 CHRONIC CYSTITIS. is scanty, high-coloured, often blood-stained, and mixed with mucus and pus. The fever, though generally high, is less marked than in the acuter cases, and may be of a mere transitory character. Pathology.—In the milder forms the inflammation is limited to the neck of the bladder and to the mucous membrane only. In the worst forms it involves the whole bladder, and extends to the muscular or even the peritoneal coat. It may terminate in 1, resolution; 2, chronic cystitis ; 3, ulceration or gangrene of the mucous membrane; 4, abscess in the walls of the bladder; 5, inflammation of the kidneys, or more rarely of the peri- toneum ; and 6, saprsemia, produced by the absorption of the products of the decomposing urine. Treatment.—The cause, if possible, should be removed. Thus, if there are fragments of calculus in the bladder, they should at once be extracted by the large evacuating catheter, any that cannot be got away being crushed; or perhaps better, the bladder may be opened by a median incision in the perineum and thoroughly washed out. If a catheter has been tied in, it should at once be withdrawn. Hot sitz-baths should be given night and morning, leeches applied to the perineum, suppositories of morphia placed in the rectum, and hyoscyamus and alkalies, if the urine be acid, administered to relieve strangury. All stimulants should be avoided, the diet restricted to milk, and the bladder washed out with hot water, or when the urine is decomposed, with a weak antiseptic lotion. If washing out increases the irritation, the bladder should be drained by an incision in the perineum. Chronic cystitis is much more frequent than the acute variety, and in its mildest form is known as catarrh of the bladder. Causes.—It may be a sequel to an acute attack; or it may be chronic from the commencement, and may then be due to a stone or other foreign body or a growth in the bladder, obstruction to the urinary out- flow, as from an enlarged prostate or stricture of the urethra, the extension of gonorrhoea, paralysis, over- distension or atony of the bladder, or the spread of in- flammation from the neighbouring organs. The symptoms are similar to those of acute cystitis, but are much milder in intensity. Thus there is increased frequency of micturition, the patient, perhaps, having to make water every hour or half-hour, the desire to do so being generally so urgent that he is unable to control it.