440 INJURIES OF REGIONS. scapularis may or may not be torn. The circumflex nerve is especially liable to be compressed, producing temporary or even permanent paralysis of the deltoid. The signs are similar to those of the subcoracoid, but there is greater flattening of the shoulder, more promi- nence of the acromion, and a more marked depression under it, and the elbow points neither backwards nor forwards. The diagnostic marks are:—1, great depres- sion of the anterior fold of the axilla; 2, presence of the head of the bone in the axilla; 3, lengthening of the arm; 4, an interval of from one to two inches between the coracoid process and the head of the bone. The suhspmous.—This variety is rare. The head rests on the dorsum of the scapula beneath the spine (Fig. 128). The capsular ligament may or may not be ruptured. The infraspinatus is generally torn up from the bone, and the subscapularis and supraspinatus are either stretched, or ruptured according to the amount of dis- placement. The tores minor is relaxed, and the long tendon of the biceps stretched or displaced from its groove. Special signs.-—Theve is great flattening of the shoulder, the elbow points forwards, the forearm is in front of the chest in consequence of the inward rotation of the humerus, and the head of the bone can be felt in its abnormal situation, but not in the axilla. The subclavicular is very rare. The head rests beneath the clavicle, internal to the coracoid process (Fig. 129). The capsule is generally extensively lacerated at its inner side. The pectoral muscles are raised by the head of the bone, which rests on or between the fibres of the sub- scapularis. The latter muscle is torn up from the sub- scapular fossa, but retains its connection to the humerus. The supraspinatus and infraspinatus are generally torn, or detached from the humerus, but may retain their con- nection to the capsular ligament. The teres minor is not torn. Special signs.—The head of the bone forms a dis- tinct prominence below the clavicle, and the shaft only can be felt in the axilla. The arm is pressed tightly to the chest and the elbow projects backwards. Diagnosis,—A dislocation of the shoulder may have to be diagnosed from a fracture of the neck of the humerus, separation of the upper epiphysis, fracture of the neck of the scapula, fracture of the glenoid cavity, and from simple sprains and contusions of the joint attended with more or less paralysis of the deltoid. Attention to the