57 ACQUIKED SYPHILIS. called tlie primary chancre^ and the period which inter- venes between the date of inoculation and its appearance the period of incuhation. The- induration of the sore increases, and the neighbouring glands become hard and shotty. In from six weeks to three months from the date of inoculation, affections of the skin and mucous membrane begin to show themselves, and are known as secondary manifestations. The period between their appearance and the induration of the chancre is some- times called the secondary incubative period, during which time malaise, pain in the limbs, lassitude, &c., are noticed. The secondary affections are syminetrical, and though generally confined to certain superficial changes in the skin and mucous membranes, at times attack the deeper structures, as the bones, iris, &c. The secondary stage may last from two months to two years, and no further changes^ may manifest themselves, the disease appearing to be* worn out; or after a few months or years of apparent cure, further changes, known as tertiary symptoms, make their appearance. The tertiary affections are asymmetrical, and not only attack the superficial parts, but- are especially common in the deeper structures, as the bones, periosteum, and viscera. They consist in the formation of gummatous material in the skin and mucous membrane, which is very prone to break down and ulcerate; and of gummatous swellings in the bones, periosteum, and viscera, leading to suppuration, fibroid changes, necrosis, serious con- tractions, paralysis, &c. The tertiary affections may last for years or even for life, and not infrequently terminate fatally when involving vital structures. It should be thoroughly understood, however, that there is no hard and fast line between the secondary and tertiary stages of syphilis. The one may merge into the other, or the secondary symptoms may last into the period usually assigned to the tertiary, whilst the latter may show themselves a few months after the first appearance of the sore. Syphilis, like the exanthemata, as a rule confers immunity upon the patient from a second attack, although in rare instances a second attack has been known to occur. As long as the patient shows secondary manifestations of syphilis, it will probably be transmitted to any offspring. Hence, as a rule, a patient should not be allowed to marry for fully two years after the dis- appearance of the secondary symptoms.