521 DISEASES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. opaque; rarely is there any sign of congestion. The an- terior segment may be retracted, the handle of the malleus being sharply defined, or the entire membrane may be cupped, and the handle drawn inwards and backwards. Opacities, calcareous deposits, and thinned spots are often seen. The cone of light may be altered in direction, may be broken into points, or may disappear. Ehinoscopic examination may show the naso-pharyngeal mucous mem- brane swollen, congested, and granular, or pale and dry. Adenoid vegetations may be present. The Eustachian orifice may be obliterated by cicatricial bands, or variously distorted. Inflation may prove the canal patent, or more or less obstructed. If the labyrinth be not seriously involved, the tuning-fork is heard louder in the affected ear. Treatment.—The nasal cavity and pharynx should be examined and as far as possible restored to a healthy condition (see diseases of nose and pharynx). The patency of the Eustachian tube must be restored, if possible, by means of the air-douche, catheter, or electric bougie. The nostrils should be syringed through with warm saline solutions, and astringent gargles when necessary should be given, or the throat painted with nitrate of silver, chloride of zinc or glycerine of tannin. If these means fail, the chloride of ammonium inhaler may be tried, or medicated fluids may be injected into the tympanum, such as bicarbonate of potass, iodide of potassium, vapour of iodine, or pilocarpine, although I cannot say I have observed much benefit from their use. Some Surgeons recommend, in obstinate cases, perforating the membrane, and dividing the tensor tympani, the posterior fold, or the anterior ligament of the malleus. IV. Diseases op the internal ear.—Our knowledge of diseases of the internal ear is still so imperfect, and our means of treatment so inadequate, that this part of the subject need not be discussed at any great length. Diseases of the internal ear, although often primary, are more frequently secondary to diseases of the middle ear.. The causes are : — 1. Greneral diseases of the system, especially the zymotic diseases, such as scarlet-fever, measles, mumps, typhus, diphtheria, &c.; also anaemia, lactation, and especially syphilis. 2. Extension from the middle ear, either directly, or indirectly, by causing reflex vaso-motor changes in the labyrinth. 3. Intra- cranial mischief, such as aneurysm of the basilar artery, meningitis, abscess or tumours. 4. Sudden loud noises,