767 DISEASES OE THE URETHRA. Malignant disease.—Carcinoma in the old, and sar- coma in the yonng, may occur in the prostate, but both are rare. Pain, increased frequency in micturition, with passage of blood, often pure, at the end of the act; the presence in the urine of shreds of the growth ; the detec- tion in the rectum of a swelling of the prostate of unequal consistency and of rapid growth; enlargement of the lumbar and often also of the inguinal glands; and wasting and cachexia, are the symptoms by which it may be known. The treatment can only be palliative; i.e., morphia to subdue pain, astringents to check haemor- rhage, and catheterism or supra-pubic puncture to relieve retention. Prostatic calculi are often found in abundance in the prostate of old men in the form of small, brown, seed-like bodies. They are composed of phosphates, with a little carbonate of lime and a large proportion of animal matter, and are believed to be formed by the inspissation of the prostatic secretion, and the subsequent deposit upon it of the earthy salts. Usually they give rise to no symjptoms ; but occasionally one or more en- croach upon the urethra, and may attain such a size as to project into the bladder, then causing painful and fre- quent micturition, involuntary erections and escape of semen, or perhaps, retention or incontinence of urine. A grating sensation, but no true ring, may be elicited on the passage of a sound. At other times the calculi may escape into the bladder and there collecting in con- siderable numbers give rise to symptoms of stone. Moreover, one or more may be periodically passed by the urethra. Treatment,—Unless the symptoms are severe, the calculi are better left alone; but should they attain a large size, or give rise to retention, &c., they should be removed through a median incision in the perineum. Extraction by the urethral forceps is not likely to suc- ceed ; but there is no harm in trying, if all gentleness is used. Where they have collected in the bladder they may be washed out by Bigelow's evacuator. diseases oe the urethra. Simple urethritis, or inflammation of the urethra of a non-specific character, may be due to injury, catheter- ism, gout, the irritation of worms, the abuse of alcohol,