BETENTION OF URINE, 791 Treatment.-^JAgSiiure, or the application of nitric acid or the thermo - cautery, generally suffices for their cure. Eetention of uri^^e, or inability to pass water, must be distinguished from suppression of urine in which none is secreted by the kidneys. Cause.—Eetention may depend upon either {a) obstruction to the outflow of urine from the bladder, or (b) inability of the bladder to expel its contents consequent upon atony of its muscular coat or paralysis. Eetention, therefore, is a symptom of several diseases. 1. In the old, it is commonly due to enlarged prostate with superadded congestion, combined with atony of the bladder from over-distension. 2. In adult men it may be due to organic stricture with temporary spasm of the unstriped muscular fibres of the urethra, or to congestion of the mucous membrane owing to gonorrhoea, a drinking bout, or cold and wet. 3. In women it may be the result of hysteria, or the pressure of an enlarged uterus or ocher pelvic tumour or of the foetal head in parturition. 4. In children it is commonly caused by an impacted calculus or ligature of the penis, and more rarely by phimosis. 5. At all ages and in loth sexes it may be due to reflex spasm after an operation on the rectum, shock following any severe injury or operation, a tumour in the neck of the bladder or urethra, and an abscess in any part of the urethra. It may also be due to paralysis consequent upon disease or injury of the brain or spinal cord, and to atony of the muscular coat of the bladder. In the two latter conditions, however, after the bladder has become distended and will hold no more, the excess of urine passively overflows, dribbling constantly away; and this condition of false incontinence must be dis- tinguished from trae incontinence in which the urine runs away from the bladder as fast as it is secreted by the kidneys. Symptoms and signs.—When retention has come on slowly, as from the gradual contraction of an organic stricture, there may be but little local pain and no constitutional disturbance, even although the bladder may be distended by many ounces of urine. Where, however, it is produced suddenly there is usually great pain followed by severe constitutional symptoms—a small and frequent pulse, a dry and brown tongue, and, perhaps delirium, symptoms probably due to the sudden check to secretion by the kidneys, and to the stretching of the