.801 EPITHELIOMA OF THE SCROTUM. witli the crura, removed, and the urethra stitched to the perineum. The inguinal glands if not too extensively diseased should be also removed. Amputation" or the penis is often performed by one swoop of the knife; when thus done the urethra is liable to retract and cause subsequent trouble in micturition. It is best therefore to divide the corpus spongiosum about half an inch further forward than the corpora cavernosa, and then split the urethra and secure it by suture to the skin. The skin should be drawn weil forward before it is divided, as otherwise it is apt to obscure the more retractable stump, and render the securing of the arteries difficult. Too much skin more- over is liable to obstruct the orifice of the urethra. Hae- morrhage during the operation should be restrained by Clover's clamp or by the fingers of an assistant. The two dorsal arteries and the arteries of the corpora cavernosa and of the septum usually require ligature. Amputa- tion by the galvanic ecraseur is strongly advised by some, but is open to the objection that it may be followed by secondary haemorrhage on the separation of the sloughs. diseases of the sceotum, spermatic cord, and testicle. Epithelioma of the scrotum, often called sweep's cancer from the frequency with which it occurs in chimney-sweepers owing to the irritation of the soot, generally begins as a dark wart or tubercle which ulti- mately ulcerates, producing a sore with hard sinuous everted edges, and an irregular watery tuberous base. At times it begins as a chronic eczema. The irritant would appear to be not merely the carbon of the soot, but one or more of the products of the destructive distillation of coal, as the cancer does not occur from soot produced by the burning of wood, and is found amongst workers in coal-tar and its products. The inguinal glands become involved, and occasionally the testicle, but the disease does not, as a rule, affect internal organs. Death is commonly due to the exhaustion produced by the ulcera- tion in the inguinal glands, or haemorrhage from the opening of a large blood-vessel in the groin. Treat- ment,—Free and early excision with the knife, and W. 3 F