69 HEMOPHILIA. HEMOPHILIA. Hemophilia, or the hseniorrliagic diathesis, is a con- dition in which bleeding is prone to occur spontaneously or on the slightest provocation, and is very difficult to arrest. • The cause is unknown. The affection, however, appears to be hereditary; it often occurs in members of the same family, and nearly always in the males, although it is almost invariably transmitted through the female line. The pathology of the disease is obscure, and except that the arteries have been found thin, and the left ventricle hypertrophied, nothing abnormal has been dis- covered either in the tissues or in the blood. The bleeding may be started by the most trifling injury, such as a mere scratch of the finger, the extraction of a tooth, or a bite of the lip or tongue. Or it may occur spontaneously, when it is sometimes preceded by flushings of the face and throbbing of the arteries, and then commonly takes the form of epistaxis, or of extravasations beneath the skin, or of bleeding from the gums or intestines, or of effusion into a joint. When the result of a traumatism, the blood, except a large artery is wounded, oozes from the injured surface in a steady, continuous, and uncon- trollable stream. The bleeding may last for weeks and then cease spontaneously, leaving the patient in an ansemic condition, from which, however, he may speedily recover; or it may terminate fatally. Successive attacks are common at varying intervals, and to one of these the patient generally succumbs. Should, however, he survive the period of puberty, there is a fair chance of the tendency to bleed decreasing with advancing years. The treatment consists in placing the patient at perfect rest in the recumbent position, and in elevating the part when the bleeding comes from a limb. Ligature, the actual and galvanic cautery and acupressure only do harm by increasing the size of the wound; and cold, in the form of ice, is of doubtful benefit. When the blood comes from a tooth-socket a plug of perchloride of iron may be ap- plied. Internally, such drugs as qrgotin, acetate of lead, gallic acid, and sclerotic acid, are recommended, but do not appear to have much power in controlling the bleed- ing. Eecently calcium chloride has been recommended in- ternally, and as a local styptic, a solution of fibrin ferment to which calcium chloride has been added (see styptics, p. 130).