324 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. ternal mammary and deep epigastric; the ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac; the gluteal and external circumflex; the obturator and internal circumflex; the sciatic and the superior perforating and internal circumflex. The common iliac artery has been ligatured for aneurysm of the external iliac and for gluteal aneurysm ; the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY, also for gluteal aneurysm. Both may be reached by prolonging the incision for liga- ture of the external iliac, and both have recently been tied through the peritoneum. Both operations were formerly attended with the most unfavourable results, but of late there have been several successful cases in which the abdomen has been opened in the middle line, the intestines drawn aside and the vessels exposed by scratching through the peritoneum. For collateral circulation see Fig. 91. The superficial eemoral artery may be ligatured for :—1. Wound of the artery itself; 2, popliteal aneurysm; 3, haemorrhage from a wound of one of the tibials. The ligature may be applied either in Scarpa's triangle or in Hunter's canal. In Scarpa's triangle the artery is usually tied at the apex where the sartorius touches the adductor longus. If thought necessary, the line of the sartorius may be marked on the skin with lunar caustic by putting the muscle in action before the patient is ansesthetized. Slightly flex the leg, and place the thigh on its outer side in a position of slight abduction and flexion. A line drawn from a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine to the ad- ductor tubercle in this position indicates the course of the artery. (Fig. 92 a.) Make an incision about three inches long in this line, beginning about four inches below Poupart's ligament; cut through the skin and superficial fascia, and divide the deep fascia on a director. Draw the sartorius gently outwards and the sheath of the vessel will be exposed. Open this in the usual way, avoidiug the small branch of the internal cutaneous nerve which crosses the artery at this spot. Pass the aneurysm needle from within outwards to avoid injuring the vein which lies to the inner side of, and a little posterior to, the artery. In Hunter^s canal the same line as the above indicates the course of the vessel (Fig. 92 b.) Place the limb as before, and make an incision three or four inches long in the line of the artery in the middle third of the thigh. Divide the superficial and deep fascia, and the sartorius will be exposed. It may be known by