830 The tube is passed through a tightly-fitting hole in the centre of a sheet of thin rubber (Fig. 320). The end of the tube should be then placed in the bottom of Douglas's pouch, and the parietal wound closed except at the situa- tion of the tube, and dressed with antiseptic gauze placed between the skin and the rubber sheet. Over the mouth of the tube a sponge is laid, and the rubber sheet wrapped around it so as to prevent any discharge from the tube reaching the permanent dressing. The rubber is unfolded at intervals, the sponge removed, and a capillary pipette passed down the tube to draw off any discharge that has collected. The tube is retained till the discharge ceases to collect in it and becomes of a serous character. The after-treatment consists in keeping the patient at rest, soothing pain and procuring sleep by morphia, emptying the bladder at regular intervals by the catheter, and. allaying vomiting if present by ice or teaspoonfuls of hot water, or if intractable by washing out the stomach. Tympanites is greatly relieved by the occasional passage of a long rectal tube. No food should be given for the first twenty-four hours; then nutrient enemata should be admmistered, and after three days a return to slop diet should be cautiously made. The stitches may be re- moved from the third to the seventh day, and the wound then supported by strapping. If signs of peritonitis appear, Mr. Tait gives a turpentine enema and saline purge. See Peritonitis (p. 422). Salpingitis—Hydro- salpinx—Pyo- salpinx—H^- MATO-SALPINX.—As the result of gonorrhoea, inflamma- tion of the uterus or pelvic peritoneum, and occasionally of parturition, the Fallopian tubes may become inflamed [salpingitis), and their orifices adherent, and as a conse- quence they may become distended with serum {hydro- salpinx) (Fig. 321) or with pus {pi/o-salpinx); whilst much more rarely, as the result of an injury or from obstruction in the uterus or vagina, they may become distended with blood {hcematO'Salpinx). The symptoms are pain, worse on exertion, straining, or coitus; and intensely painful,irre- gular or profuse menstruation, together with a history of uterine or ovarian trouble. On examination an ovoid, generally tender, perhaps fluctuating swelling will be felt externally and through the roof of the vagina, and on both sides if both tubes are affected. The swelling will be moveable or immoveable according as it is free or adherent, and may be distinguished from an ovarian cyst