39 TOCEES. white, callous, rounded, steep, and quite insensitive when touclied. The skin around is generally congested or eczematous. The base is covered with a thin sanious dis- charge, whilst there are either no granulations, or such as are present are small, flabby, pale, and ill-formed. These ulcers often exist for years, and are usually attended with but little pain, and though they are at times small, at other times extend nearly round the leg. They are often adherent to the fascia, periosteum, or bone. Old callous ulcers when subjected to continued irritation are apt, as age advances, to become epitheliomatous. Treatment.—The callous edges should first be softened by emollient dressings, and uniform pressure subse- quently applied by a Martin's bandage, or by strapping and a bandage after Baynton's method. When very large, amputation under some circumstances may be called for. The varicose and eczematous ulcer.—These terms are applied to any ulcer, whatever its other characters, when associated respectively with a varicose state of the veins, or an eczematous condition of the skin. Both conditions frequently occur together, and are described under Vari- cose Veins. The irritable or painful ulcer.—Though any ulcer may be irritable or painful, the above terms are generally re- stricted to a small painful ulcer about the anus (see Diseases of Eectum), and to a small, superficial, generally congested ulcer, commonly situated about the ankle, and occurring chiefly in women beyond middle life. The pain is often intense, and is generally believed to depend upon the involvement of the nerve-endings. Treatment.—The improvement of the general health, small doses of opium, and cauterization with nitrate of silver will often suffice to cure the ulcer. In inveterate cases an attempt may be made to divide the nerves subcutaneously after the manner of Hilton. B. Ulcers whose characters depend upon their specific origin, Tuherculous or Strumous ulcers are generally due to the breaking down of enlarged tuberculous lymphatic glands, the bursting of subcutaneous tuberculous abscesses, or the ulceration of the so-called tuberculous or strumous