INJURIES OF REGIONS. 426 EuPTURE OF THE BLADDER Can Only occur when tlie viscus is full. It may then be due to a blow or kick upon the abdomen, and is a frequent complication of fracture of the pelvis. Eupture is seldom due to over-distension consequent upon urethral stricture, as the walls of the bladder are then generally thickened and thereby rendered capable of resisting the pressure of the contained urine. Under these circumstances it is commonly the urethra behind the stricture that gives way. State of the parts.—The rupture, which is usually vertical, may extend through the posterior part of the bladder, the urine escaping into the peritoneal cavity; or through the anterior part, the urine then being extravasated into the loose cellular tissue of the pelvis. In the former case, which is the more common, acute peritonitis is generally set ^up, and is, as a rule, fatal in a few days. In the latter, diffuse cellulitis com- monly occurs, the patient succumbing either to septic poisoning from the absorption of the products of putre- faction, or to the extension of the inflammation to the peritoneum. Signs.—Intense collapse following a blow over the abdomen or a severe injury of the pelvis, combined with the fact that on passing a catheter (as should always be done in such a case) no urine but only a little blood escapes, whilst the patient states that the bladder was full at the time of the accident, or at least that he had passed no water for several hours previously, should lead us to infer that the bladder is ruptured. The catheter, moreover, may at times be felt to be grasped by the empty bladder, and to slip through the rent in its walls; the point may then be detected more plainly than natural through the front of the abdomen, and blood-stained urine may flow. The flow, however, is not continuous, but varies with respiration. If the urine has had time to collect in the peritoneum, a sensation of fluid in the ab- domen may be detected on palpation. The signs, however, are not always so obvious. Thus, there may be neither collapse nor pain; or, again, on passing a catheter, several ounces of clear urine may escape owing to urine having collected in the bladder in consequence of the rent being small or blocked by a portion of intestine. If in doubt, 10 or 12 ounces of some antiseptic fluid may be injected into the bladder, when, if no rupture exists the same quantity should flow out again through the catheter.