FRACTUEE-BISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. 397 the vertebrae above and the vertebrae below, one of the fragments of the fractured body being frequently driven backwards into the vertebral canal, whilst the arches and the spinous and articular processes are wrenched asunder. Fracture of the sternum is occasionally com- bined with this injury, in consequence of the chin, it is said, coming into violent contact with the sternum as the spine is doubled forwards. Condition of the spinal cord,—The importance of fracture- dislocation of the spine lies not so much in the fact that the vertebrae are fractured, as that the cord is generally injured. When the vertebrae are not displaced, the cord may at times altogether escape. More commonly, how- ever, it is compressed, or, perhaps, completely divided, or again so bruised that it rapidly undergoes inflamma- tory softening. When the injury is situated below the second lumbar vertebrae, the cord necessarily escapes as it terminates at that spot, but the nerves of the cauda equina may then be injured. Signs and si/mptoms.—The local signs are often but little marked. There may be pain at the seat of injury, or some inequality in the spinous processes; but as often as not these are absent. The general signs depend upon the condition of the cord, and none will be present when it has escaped injury. But when it is compressed or crushed there will be paralysis of the parts below, more or less complete according to the extent of the lesion. Taking as an example a case of fracture in the lower cervical or upper dorsal region—the most common situa- tion—with severe compression or crushing of the cord, there will be paralysis of both motion and sensation of the whole of the parts below the seat of injury (para- plegia), and perhaps a zone of hyperaesthesia immediately above the injured part. The intercostal muscles being paralysed, respiration can only be carried on by the diaphragm, this muscle receiving its nerve-supply through the phrenics which are given off above the seat of injury. Hence, while the chest is motionless, the abdomen rises and falls during respiration. The bladder and rectum and their respective sphincters share in the paralysis, so that there is at first retention of urine and faeces, followed by passive overflow of urine as the bladder becomes dis- tended and will hold no more, and by involuntary passage of faeces. Priapism, or involuntary erection of the penis, is frequently present, or is induced by the use of the