865 SPECIAL AMPUTATIOKS* long anterior flap. In amputating a finger it slionld be remembered that the joint is in front of the knuckle. If the whole finger requires removal, the head of the meta- carpal bone should be nipped off with bone forceps, unless breadth and strength of hand is the chief desideratum, when it should be left. Am,putation at the hip-joint may be done by transfixion or by Furneaux Jordan's method. Although the former can be performed with greater celerity, the latter is by far the better operation, as it is attended with less hsemor- I rhage and provides a much more useful stump. In the transfixion method a long anterior flap is made by trans- fixion and cutting towards the surface. The knife is 1 entered midway between the anterior superior iliac spine I and the great trochanter, and is made to emerge as near to the tuberosity of the ischium as possible. A flap about I ten inches long is then cut, the vessels being seized by j the fingers of an assistant, who grasps them with the flap I and turns it upwards. The limb is then everted and ' extended by an assistant, the joint opened, the head of the bone and great trochanter freed from their connections, and the knife carried straight out posteriorly. Hgemorrhage should be controlled by Davy's lever in the rectum, or by Lister's abdominal tourniquet. In Furneaux Jordan''s method, Esmarch's cord tourniquet having been applied, a circular amputation is first done through the upper third of the thigh, and all the vessels secured. The tourniquet is then removed and an incision carried up the outer side of the thigh to the great trochanter, the soft parts with the periosteum separated from the bone, the joint opened, and the disarticulation completed by freeing the remaining connections with the knife kept close to the bone. Amputation of the thigh is usually done by double skin- flaps and circular division of the muscles. The flaps may I be antero-posterior, or lateral; or one flap may be antero- j external and the other postero-internal. I Amputation of the leg may also be done by two skin- I flaps and circular division of the muscles, or by Teale's I method. The posterior flap is sometimes cut by trans- I fixion. The sharp edge of the tibia should be cut off obliquely, lest it subsequently protrude through the skin. The division of the fibula should be completed before that of the tibia to prevent splintering. Should the arteries retract, as they are apt to do in this situation, they may ! be conveniently drawn down by a tenaculum.