142 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJtTEIES. own accord take food, but will, as a rule, drink any- thing. The prognosis is good when the patient is young, and can be induced to take food; but when he is broken- down in health or the subject of visceral disease he usually sinks into a state of asthenia, and dies of exhaus- tion, or it may be of heart-failure during a paroxysm of violence. Treatment,—The chief indications are to make the patient take food and to procure sleep, and so restore power to the exhausted nerve-centres. Thus, the diges- tive functions should be regulated by clearing the bowels with a purgative or an enema, and by the subsequent administration of tonics, such as quinine. The difficulty in gettiDg the patient to take food may generally te over- come by a judicious mixture of firmness and coaxing, otherwise he must be fed by an oesophageal tube. The diet should consist of fluid nourishment given in small and repeated quantities by night as well as by day, pro- vided the patient is awake. To procure sleep subcutaneous injections of morphia (gr. \ to J), or bromide of potassium and chloral in doses of twenty grains of the former to fifteen of the latter, should be given every two hours, carefully watching their eft'ect. When these fail, success may sometimes be obtained by first inducing insensibility by chloroform, and following up its effects by the subcu- taneous injection of morphia. The administration of chloroform to patients with delirium tremens is however by no means free from danger, since three deaths have occurred at St. Bartholomew's alone in seven years. If there is kidney disease, morphia and opium should not be given at all, or with great caution. The question of the administration of stimulants is one on which surgeons differ. Perhaps the best rule is—where the patient is young and of good constitution, to withhold them entirely; but where he is old, broken down in health, or the subject of visceral disease, to give them in modeiate quantities, regulating the dose according to the amount of depression and the elf ects produced. If he is violent or noisy he must be placed in an isolation-ward, and prevented from injuring himself or his attendants, either by the use of the strait-jacket or by manual restraint. Seclusion itself has often a good effect in producing sleep. The management of a local injury is often rendered very difficult by the patient tearing off bandages, splints, &c., and thus, for