NASAL POLYPI. 599 i Ehinoliths or nose-stones may occasionally form in i the nose from the deposition of phosphate of lime and j mucus upon either a foreign body which has become ! lodged in the nose, or a portion of hardened secretion. I They give rise to inflammation, swelling of the mucous ! membrarfe, and a foetid discharge, and have been mis- taken for osteomata, and even carcinomata. When de- tected they should be removed by forceps, or if too large for this, first broken by the nasal lithotrite. Polypi.—Three forms are described,—the gelatinous, the fibrous, and the malignant. 1. Gelatinous or mucous polypi most frequently spring from the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones, rarely from the roof of the nares, and scarcely ever from the septum. They usually have a myxomatous structure, that is, they consist of delicate connective tissue in- filtrated with large quantities of mucin containing round and stellate cells, and are covered with ciliated epithelium. They are usually multiple, sessile or pedunculated, and of an oval, pyriform, or lobulated shape. The usual symptoms are a feeling of stuffiness in one or both nos- trils, worse in damp weather, a nasal tone of voice, and a mucous discharge. Certain reflex symptoms, such as asthma, cough, &c., are also occasionally present. On inspection, they appear as pinkish or greyish-white, semi-translucent, gelatinous, moveable bodies, soft and dimpling when touched with a probe. When high up, or far back in the nasal cavities, the speculum or rhino- scope may be necessary to detect them. With the rhinoscope I have often succeeded in detecting a poly- pus at the posterior nares that had been previously overlooked. Treatment,—They are best removed by the galvano- cautery, as this is attended with less pain and with prac- tically no haemorrhage. The parts should be previously sprayed with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine, and after the removal of the polypi the surface from which they sprang should be touched with the galvano-cautery to prevent a recurrence. If the cautery is not at hand, the polypi may be removed by the cold wire snare or be twisted off by the ordinary polypus forceps. When they project into the naso-pharynx, they may be removed, either with the galvano-cautery loop passed through the nose or by the forceps introduced behind the palate. A snuff of tannic acid, used subsequently to their removal,