265 CHRONIC OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. detected on probing. The prognosis is unfavourable. The treatment consists in keeping the parts at absolute rest by fixing the pelvis and thigh in a moulded leather splint reaching to the knee, and after sinuses have formed, in scraping and gouging away as much as possible the tuberculous granulations and carious bone and dressing with iodoform. Chronic osteo-arthritis, also called rheumatoid arthritis, or arthritis deformans, is an incurable and pro- gressive disease leading to great deformity and at times to complete disablement of the joint. It is characterized by gradual degeneration and destruction of the cartilages, eburnation and alteration in the shape of the articular ends of the bones, and formation of nodular osteophytes in the fibrous tissue around the joint. It is a disease of middle and advanced life, and may'be confined to one or more of the larger joints—the hip, knee or shoulder {monarthritis), or it may affect many joints, including the smaller articulations {polyarticular rheumatism). Though most frequently met with in the joints of the extremities, it may affect other joints, as those of the lower jaw, spine, &c. The cause is not known. The disease, however, has been attributed to deficient or perverted innervation, depressing nervous influences, exposure to cold and damp, improper feeding, insuflicient clothing, etc. At times a slight injury appears to be the determining cause. Pathology.—The disease is variously believed to begin as a chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, a fibroid degeneration of the cartilages, or as an inflamma- tory affection of the ligaments. In whichever way it begins, however, the earliest characteristic changes are found in the cartilages. These at first appear nodular and cracked, but subsequently become roughened, fibrous and villous-looking, and are finally rubbed away by the friction of the articular surfaces of the joint' on each other. Such changes appear to be due to fibroid degenera- tion, or splitting of the matrix into fibres, and the multi- plication, enlargement, and fatty degeneration of the cartilage cells. Thus it will be perceived that the pro- cess by which the cartilages are destroyed in chronic osteo-arthritis differs materially from the so-called ulceration of cartilage which occurs in the inflammatory joint-affections previously described, and in which the matrix undergoes liquefaction and softening consequent