GANGEENE. 47 ducts ; and the ordinary signs of septic intoxication {saprcemia) ensue. Treatment.—In the first variety, depending on the con- stitutional condition of the patient, no treatment hitherto has been of any avail, as the gangrene almost invariably recurs in the flaps if amputation is performed. In the second variety, amputation, as far removed from the injury and gangrene as possible, should be resorted to early, so as to be well above the infiltrated tissues. It is of no use waiting for a line of demarcation, as one does not form. The strength must be supported by stimulants and fluid nourishment, and opium given to relieve pain. As the gangrene often spreads higher along the inner side of the limb than the outer, the flaps should in such cases be taken from the outer side so as the better to avoid the infiltrated tissues. Senile gajstgrene is generally taken as a typical example of the dry variety, but is often more or less moist when starting in inflammatory action. It is usually the result of calcification or of atheroma of the arteries and consequent clotting of blood on their roughened surface, a cause rendered more effective in old people by the weak propelling action of the heart, and feeble circulation through the lower limbs. It may occasionally be pro- duced by embolism. It often begins apparently spon- taneously as a black spot on one of the toes or the side of the foot; or it may start as a slight or diffuse inflamma- tion induced by cutting a corn, a trivial injury of the foot, or ulceration of a bunion, and is often preceded by coldness and numbness, or cramp in the feet. It may gradually involve the whole foot and part of the leg, the parts becoming dry, black, and shrivelled. The process of separation is usually very slow, and at first is attended with very little constitutional disturbance. It frequently terminates fatally. Treatment.—It is generally held that the parts should be allowed to separate spontaneously, the surgeon merely stepping in to help nature by severing the bone or any tendons that may remain after the softer tissues have separated. If this treatment is followed the limb in the meantime should be kept at a uniform tem- perature by wrapping it in cotton-wool; the odour of the gangrenous part kept in check by dressings of iodoform or dried charcoal; the strength supported by fluid nourishment and stimulants; and pain relieved and the circulation controlled by small doses of opium. The