DISEASES OF REGIONS. 668 or partial excision of tlie intussusception and restoration of the bowel by circular enterorrhaphy or lateral approxima- tion. Complete excision is a most serious operation, especially where a long length of bowel is involved. In such a case if there is no sign of gangrene the sheath may be opened, the intussusceptum excised just below its neck, the stump ligatured and the continuity of the intestine restored by lateral approximation by bone-plates or lateral implantation. When gangrene has occurred, the intussusception must be excised. Since the introduction by Senn of these more rapid methods of restoring the continuity of the intestine the need of making an artificial anus should seldom occur. After any of the above operations, carefully cleanse the aba omen from blood by gentle sponging and close the wound in the parietes with the two surfaces of the peri- toneum in contact by sutares passed through the skin and peritoneum. If in spite of all care the peritoneum has been soiled by fsecal matter or septic changes have already started, flush out the peritoneal cavity with gallons of warm water to which some antiseptic as salicylic acid (5 per cent.) or boracic acid (2 per cent.) may be added. In flushing out pass the irrigating tube amongst the intestines to the back of the abdominal cavity and into the pelvis so that the water may flow out- wards. If the intestines have been allowed to prolapse there may be some difliculty in getting them back. Cover them with antiseptic gauze wrung out of hot water, tuck- ing the margins of the gauze beneath the edges of the wound. Introduce the sutures and when they are all in situ make uniform pressure on the gauze as the sutures are tightened and tied from above downwards. Withdraw the gauze before the last sutures are tied. Drawing forward the edges of the wound with retractors will materially aid the replacement of the intestine. If they cannot be replaced draw a distended loop away from the wound, open it, evacuate as much of the contents as possible, suture the wound by Lembert's method, and again endeavour to replace the prolapsed intestine. When fgecal soiling or septic changes have occurred, place a glass drainage tube in the wound (see Ovariotomy), [g) If the obstruction is found to depend on a peri- typhlitic abscess or acute peritonitis a glass drainage tube should be placed in the wound in the abdominal parietes, after the abscess or peritoneal cavity has been washed out,