177 TREATMENT OF ERAOTURES. granulation-tissue, whicli is called callus, consists liere, as in the union of soft parts, of small round cells with a small amount of 'firm intercellular substance, and delicate loops of capillaries, which are derived in part from the vessels in the Haversian canals, and in part from the vessels in the periosteum, and adjacent soft tissues. It is found (1) replacing the periosteum, and extending for some distance around the bone, above and below the line of fracture, forming a spindle-shaped tumour, by which the ends of the fragments are surrounded, as it were, with a ferrule {enskeathing callus, Eig. 39, a) ; (2) replacing the medulla for some little distance up and down the medullary canal (internal callus, Fig. 39, b) ; and later (3) between the ends of the fragments {permanent, intermediate or definitive callus. Fig. 39, c). The ensheath- ing callus and internal callus are gradually organized into fibrous tissue, becoming harder and firmer, and in animals, and, in some instances, in children, are con- verted into cartilage, or fibro-cartilage. The outermost layers of the fibrous tissue into which the ensheathing callus is thus converted, form a new periosteum. Ossifi- cation of the ensheathing callus now begins—generally in the angle between the periosteum and the bone, and proceeds along the surface of the bone, where it is preceded by the formation of cells like osteoblasts, and also along the surface of the ensheathing callus beneath the new periosteum, till the upper and lower layers of ossifying callus meet opposite the line of fracture. Ossi- fication of the internal callus goes on at the same time. Permanent callus, as soon as the ends of the bone are thus fixed by the ensheathing and internal callus, is formed between the ends of the fragments, and later also under- goes ossification. It is probably derived (1) from leuco- cytes which have escaped from the vessels in the en- larged Haversian canals of the inflamed and softened ends of the fragments, and (2) from a proliferation of the cells of the connective tissue lining these parts. The ensheathing callus and internal callus having discharged j their functions, are gradually absorbed. Where the ends of the fragments overlap, the en- sheathing callus fills up the angles (Fig. 40); and while the open end of the medullary canal in each fragment is I thus closed, its continuity through the bone is restored by the absorption of the intervening walls of the con- tiguous and overlapping fragments (Fig. 40). When