454 IISTJURIES OF REGIONS. on each other. Treatment,—Little can be done beyond confining the scapula by strapping and a bandage to the chest, and restraining the motions of the arm by bandag- ing it to the side. 2. Fracture of the neck.—By this is understood fracture through the surgical neck, i.e., internal to the coracoid, so that the latter process is separated with the glenoid cavity from the rest of the bone. There is a specimen of it in the Hunterian and in Guy's Hospital Museum (Fig. 140), though it is stated by some not to occur. The signs which have been ascribed to this injury resemble those of dislocation of the humerus downwards. The deformity, however, is said to disappear on pressing up the elbow, when crepitus can be elicited, and to reappear on removing the pressure. The treatment recommended is to raise the elbow, and main- tain, the parts in their restored position by a bandage. 3. Fracture of the acromion may occur at any situation. Cause.—Direct violence, such as a blow or fall on the shoulder. Nature of the dis- placement.—The outer frag- ment is drawn downwards by the deltoid, leaving a gap between it and the rest of the bone. Symptoms.—Pain, flat- tening of the shoulder, presence of a gap on drawing the finger along the spine, acromion, and clavicle; and crepitus on raising the arm and thus bringing the fragments into apposition. Union.—When near the tip the union is fibrous ; when near the base, it is said to be bony. Treat- ment.—Eaise the elbow so as to relax the deltoid, and fix the arm to the side by a sling and bandage, protecting the parts by a gutta-percha cap moulded to the shoulder. Some employ an axilla-pad. 4. Fracture of the coracoid process msij occuT either nesLY the tip or near the root. The cause is usually direct vio- lence, such as a kick or fall on the shoulder. Nature of the displacement.■^'When the fracture is near the tip the distal fragment is drawn downwards by the biceps; when near Fig. 140. —Fracture of the neck of the scapula. (Gruy's Hospital Museum.)