274 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. has not as yet, or at least only to a slight extent, in- volved the cartilages and bones. Excision or resection oe joints consists in cutting away the articular surfaces of the bones entering into the affected joint, or in removing a portion of bone where osseons ankylosis has taken place. "When excision is done for disease it may be said here to prevent repetition that the whole of the diseased synovial membrane should be cut or scraped away, as should also the lining mem- brane of any sinuses that may be present. Excision may be required for severe injury or for intractable disease of the joint. Space does not permit of the discussion of the various conditions under which excision should or should not be performed, but it may briefly be stated that it should be undertaken—1, when the disease is acute; 2, when there is much destruction of the bones, or riddling of the soft parts with sinuses ; 3, when there is much atrophy of the bones and muscles; 4, when the patient is under the age of ten or over that of thirty, as in the former instance, the epiphyses are liable to be removed, and the growth arrested in consequence, and in the latter, the powers of repair are usually insufficient to ensure sound healing and a subsequently useful limb ; 5, when there is lardaceous disease or signs of phthisis, or other organic mischief; and 6, when the patient's condition is such that the excision would probably be attended with long-continued suppuration and conse- quent exhaustion or lardaceous disease. Under most of the above circumstances amputation is generally indi- cated. Excision is usually attended with the best suc- cess in the elbow, and here it may be done at a later period of life than that assigned above as the limit. In the shoulder, elbow, and wrist, fibrous ankylosis is aimed at in order to secure a moveable joint; in the hip and knee, firm bony union is sought in the most useful position of the limb, which is that of extension. Excision of special joints.—The shoulder.—Ex- cision of the shoulder is generally practised for gunshot injuries and for innocent tumours in the head of the bone. It is seldom performed for disease of the joint, as an equally useful joint may be obtained by osseous ankylosis. It should never be done for osseous ankylosis, as the movements of the scapula on the trunk are so free, that they compensate to a great extent for the fixed condition of the joint, and little would be gained by the operation.