327 DISEASES OF THE VEINS. will be found between the extensor proprius pollicis and the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. As tbe artery sinks into tbe sole it is crossed by the inner- most tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. The anterior tibial nerve is on the outer side. DISEASES OP THE VEINS. Thrombosis, or clotting of the blood in a vein, is very common, and was formerly thought to be always the result of inflammation of the vein-wall. Hence, when- ever a vein became thrombosed, the condition was spoken of as phlebitis. It is now known, however, that a thrombus may form in a vein without any inflammation of its walls, and that the presence of a thrombus is in some cases the cause and not the result of the inflam- mation. The causes of thrombosis may be considered under the following heads. 1. Changes in the vein-wall, such as may result' from injury, inflammation and degenerative processes. 2. Changes in the Mood, such as occur in septicaemia and pyaemia and other affections in which there is a destruction of the white corpuscles, and the consequent setting free of the fibrin ferment con- tained in them. The exact nature of the changes in the blood inducing thrombosis is, however, not known, and the above explanation is at the best a mere theory. 3. The presence of micro-organisms, 4. The retardation or arrest of the hlood-stream, as (a) when a ligature is applied to a vein; (b) when a vein is compressed by a tight bandage, tumour, or contraction of a cicatrix; (c) when the blood flows feebly through a vein owing to weak action of the heart induced by age, fevers, loss of blood, &c. 5. The presence of a foreign body not covered by endo- thelium, as a piece of ligature, an embolus, an already formed thrombus, or the protrusion of a new growth into the lumen of a vein. Method of extension of the thrombus,—^When once formed the thrombus may extend either with or against the blood- stream. As a rule, however, it takes the former direction, extending from the smaller to the larger veins, and in this way may at times reach the heart. Appearances of a recent thrombus.—^When the blood is at rest at the time of coagulation, as when a vein is ligatured, the thrombus will be red throughout, as both the coloured