695 INPLAMED HEM^IA. hernia, and tlie patient placed in the recumbent position, with the parts as much as possible relaxed. The diet should be restricted to small quantities of milk and beef- tea, and opium administered in small doses. When all signs of inflammation have subsided an enema may be given if the bowels do not act spontaneously. Should the inflammation run into strangulation, herniotomy must be performed; whilst, should suppuration, a very rare event, occur, the pus must be let out by a free incision. Fcecal fistula and artificial anus after operation for stran- gulated hernia,—Fsecal fistula is due to ulceration of the mucous membrane at the seat of stricture, and subsequent perforation of the bowel; artificial anus to the gangrene of a considerable portion of the strangulated bowel. In both, adhesions form between the serous coat of the intes- tine and the parietal peritoneum, and in this way prevent the extravasation of faeces into the general peritoneal cavity; but in the faecal fistula the perforation of the bowel being small, most of the faecal contents are passed per anum; whereas, in artificial anus, the whole escape externally and the intestine below shrinks and becomes more or less atrophied. In faecal fistula only a fistulous aperture discharging faeces is present; in artificial anus the openings of the upper and lower portions of the intes- tine can generally be seen. The upper opening may be known by its larger size, redder colour, and by faeces issuing from it, whilst at times its mucous membrane may be prolapsed. Treatment.—A faecal fistula will, as a rule, close spon- taneously, and beyond keeping the parts clean, nothing is generally required. In artificial anus the spur-like pro- cess or ejperon formed by the projecting forwards of the posterior wall of the bowel by the coils of intestine which lie in the angle between the upper and lower portions of the intestine, may have first to be destroyed by Dupuy- tren's enterotome, and the lumen of the bowel being thus restored, the artificial anus may be closed by a plastic operation, or the walls of the bowel united by suture. The Surgeon, however, should not be in too great haste to employ the enterotome, as in the course of time, in con- sequence of the dragging of the mesentery, the spur-like process may become gradually retracted, and the two portions of intestine, instead of lying parallel, may be drawn to more or less of an angle with each other. In this way the lumen of the tube may become gradually