18 GE]N"EEAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. alone may be applied by means of Leiter's tubes, the water being kept heated by Krohne's lamp. Local Uood-letting relieves the vessels of the inflamed part, and so removes tension. It may be employed in the form of leeches, wet-cupping, or incisions with a lancet. It is often of great benefit, even when not applied directly over the part, as is shown by the relief afforded to an in- flamed eye by a leech behind the ear. Incisions are useful in some forms of inflammation, as phlegmonous erysipelas, to relieve tension. They should be made in the long axis of the limb, taking care to avoid important structures. Astringents act by constricting the blood-vessels, and are especially useful in inflammations of the mucous membrane of the mouth, nose, urethra, and conjunctiva. Constitutional remedies^ like the local, should be used according to the intensity, nature and situation of the inflammation, and the type of the constitutional disturb- ance. In an ordinary case of simple inflammation, beyond a brisk purge, subsequent regulation of the bowels and secretions by salines, and restricting the diet, no special constitutional treatment is required. But when the fever is high, the patient young and vigorous, and the pulse rapid, full, and strong—in short, where the fever is of the sthenic type, antiphlogistic or lowering treatment should be adopted. Where, on the other hand, the patient is weakly or old, or broken down in constitution, and the fever is of a low or asthenic type, a stimulating plan of treatment will be required. Antiphlogistic treatment may be considered under the heads of diet, drugs, and general blood-letting. The diet should be restricted to milk, weak beef-tea, barley-water, arrowroot, and the like. Drugs.—Purgatives determine the flow of blood to the intestines, and so relieve the inflamed part. They are not, however, generally employed except as a brisk purge at the onset of the inflammation, and in gonorrhoea and orchitis, in which they are of considerable benefit. In inflammations of the intestine and peritoneum they should not as a rule be used at all. Diaphoretics and diuretics relieve the distended vessels, the former by determining the flow of blood to the skin, the latter to the kidneys. They are not often employed in surgical inflammations. Aconite in small doses, frequently re- peated, is believed to reduce the frequency and force of the