94 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF StTHGlOAL DISEASES. as a warty tubercle or fissure, wHcli soon becomes an ulcer with everted, sinuous and indurated edges, and a bard, warty, and irregular base, wbilst tbe tissues around become infiltrated with the growth and the nearest lymphatic glands enlarged. Unless an epithe- lioma is removed whilst the disease is still local, recur- rence usually takes place in the nearest lymphatic glands ; at times, like other forms of cancer, though less often, it may become disseminated through internal organs. When incompletely removed it will return in the scar. Death is usually the result of exhaustion con- sequent upon ulceration and haemorrhage. The signs, diagnosis, and treatment are further referred to under Diseases of Eegions. (See Lip, Tongue, etc.) 3. COLUMNAE, - CELLED CAECINOMATA, CYLmDRICAL CARCINOMATA Or ADENOID CANCERS COnsist of Cells derived from columnar or cylindrical epithelium, and are less common and usually of slower growth than the former varieties. They begin as papillary outgrowths from the surface of mucous membranes covered with columnar epithelium, or from the interior of the mucous glands, and are most common in the rectum, though they may affect other parts of the intestine, the uterus, &c. Btructure.^H'h.Bj consist of tubes lined with columnar epithelium, and bound together by a delicate connective- tissue stroma more or less infiltrated with small round cells. The epithelial cells retain more or less their shape, and are arranged at right angles to the walls of the alveoli, generally leaving a central space. In the more rapidly growing tumours, however, the alveoli become completely filled with the cells. There are no cell-nests as in squamous-celled carcinoma. Like other carcinomata they infiltrate the surrounding tissues, and may affect the lymphatic glands, and later become disseminated in in- ternal organs, especially the liver. Death, however, usually occurs from obstruction of the bowel, haemor- rhage from the ulcerating surface, or exhaustion, rather than from dissemination. Their appearance, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment are further described under Diseases of the Rectum, The treatment of carcinoma generally may be divided into the palliative and the radical. The palliative is resorted to when from some cause a cancer cannot be removed by operation, and consists briefly in soothing pain by opium, neutralizing the offensive smell when ulceration