779 INTERKAL rHETHROTOMY. the bladder from the irritation of the point of the catheter, may be induced by it. If the catheter merely causes pain, opium may be given, or the urethra be injected with a solution of cocaine; whilst if it produces rigors, fever, cystitis, &c., it must be removed. It is generally believed that the mere presence of the catheter in the stricture causes the absorption of the inflammatory material in the submucous tissue, and that this result is not effected by mechanical stretching, since a catheter that does not fit the stricture tightly answers better than one that does, and causes less irritation. The method of tying in a catheter will be learnt by every student whilst dressing. FOBCIBLE DILATATION, SPLITTING, OR RUPTURE, haS been much advocated by Mr. Holt. He passes through the stricture an instrument consisting of two parallel blades with a central stem fixed between them, and then over this stem forces a tube the size of the urethra, thus separating the blades and splitting or rupturing the stricture. A full-sized catheter is then passed. The operation is not unattended with danger, and is more liable to be followed by an early relapse than either rapid dilatation or internal urethrotomy. Indeed internal urethrotomy has now to a great extent taken its place in the treatment of linear, contractile, and penile strictures (the strictures to which splitting is said to be especially adapted), since the cicatrix following laceration of the tissues is much more prone to contract than that follow- ing a clean cut. Internal urethrotomy, or division of the stricture from within the urethra, is an excellent operation, but should only be undertaken when the simpler and safer method of treatment by dilatation has failed. It consists in making a clean longitudinal cut with a guarded knife completely through the stricture, and subsequently in keeping the edges of the wound apart by the passage of a full-sized bougie till the ovoid gap thus left has been filled with new tissue—the cicatricial splice of the American Surgeons. The cicatrix following a clean cut shows much less tendency to contract than a cicatrix following a laceration or rupture ; hence the superiority of internal urethrotomy over the method of splitting or rupture. It is a less severe operation than external urethrotomy, and when a urethrotome can be passed through the stricture should generally be performed in