460 INJURIES OF REGIONS. ments at the seat of fracture leading to a false joint. Where the internal condyle only is chipped off, the angular splint should be placed on the outer side of the arm. In the other forms it is usually applied to the inner side. The radius and ulna. Cause.—Generally direct violence, when each bone breaks in the same transverse line at the spot where the force is applied ; occasionally indirect violence, as a fall on the hand, when each bone generally breaks at its weakest part—the radius in its upper third, the ulna in its lower third. Nature of the dis- placement,—The upper fragment of the radius is drawn by the pronator teres towards the upper fragment of the ulna, which in consequence of its hinge-shaped articula- tion with the humerus is not displaced. The lower frag- ments are drawn towards each other by the pronator quadratus. Signs. — Obvious deformity, crepitus, &c. Treatment.—Flex the elbow to relax the muscles ; reduce the fracture, and place the forearm in well-padded splints with the thumb uppermost. In this position the bones are midway between pronation and supination, and parallel to one another. There is, consequently, a good interval between them, and the danger of the radius becoming united by callus to the ulna, as in Eig. 43^ is avoided. Durmg pronation the radius crosses the ulna. Were the fracture set with the bones thus in contact, the risk of their uniting would be great. The splints should reach from above the elbow to below the wrist, and should be broader than the forearm so that the bones may not be pressed together by the bandage. If this point is attended to interosseous pads are not necessary. The patient should be seen within twenty-four hours, as swelling may occur and the bandages require loosening. The splints must be worn for about a month, and passive movements of the fingers practised early to prevent stiffening. Greenstick fracture of the radius and ulna is common in children. The radius.—Fractures of the radius may involve, 1, the neck; 2, the shaft; and, 3, the lower and (Colics' fracture). 1. The neck of the radius is occasionally fractured. It may be known by crepitus, and by the absence of move- ment of the head when the hand is pronated and supinated. Treatment.—Flex the forearm, and place the limb on an angular splint. 2. The shaft of the radius may be fractured by direct or