256 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. joint, pyaemia^ and tlie continued and the exantlieniatous feyers. Pathology.—The course of the disease differs somewhat according to its cause and mode of origin. In a typical case beginning in the synovial membrane and running on to complete disorganization of the joint and subsequent ankylosis the following changes occur:—The inflammation rapidly spreads from the synovial membrane to the bones and surrounding soft tissues ; the cartilages are destroyed; the ligaments are softened; the articular surfaces are dis- placed by the action of the muscles; and the joint is con- verted into the cavity of an abscess (Fig. 69). The capsule of the joint now gives way, allowing the inflammatory products to escape. The soft tissues break down into pus, and the abscesses open externally, forming sinuses leading down to the joint. Should the inflammation now subside, granulations spring up from the denuded ends of the bones, the two layers of granulations unite, and after passing through a fibrous stage undergo ossification {hony ankylosis), leaving the patient with a stiff joint. The pathological process by which these changes are brought about is as follows :—The synovial membrane, which at first appears red and injected, rapidly becomes infiltrated with inflammatory products, and is converted, together with the adjacent capsules, into a thick layer of granulation-tissue. The inflamed articular ends of the bones also become infiltrated with inflammatory products, and pass through the changes described under rarefying osteitis. The cartilages thus cut off from their nutrient supply lose their lustre, and while portions die and are cast off into the interior of the joint, the rest is invaded both on its free and deep surface by the granulations derived from the synovial membrane on the one hand, and from the articular end of the bone on the other. As the result of this invasion, the cartilaginous matrix liquefies, and the cartilage cells proliferate, while the brood of young cells thus formed in part coalesce with the cells of the invading granulation-tissue, and in part escape into the joint in the form of pus. After the inflammatory products have escaped, should the inflammation subside, the layers of granulation-tissue, which spring up from the surface of the bones that have been denuded of their cartilage, come into contact, and unite in the way described under union of the soft parts by the third intention. Ossification subsequently ensues. Under less