731 SUPPRESSION OF UEINE. to tTie bladder or prostate; or it may begin primarily in the kidney and thence spread downwards. Tbe symptoms to whicb. it gives rise are very similar to those of renal calculus, and it may be impossible to distinguish them. Thus, there is increased frequency of micturition, pus, and at times blood, in the urine, and often pain in the loin; whilst later there will be a tumour in the abdomen with characters like those described under pyonephrosis. The presence of tubercle elsewhere, and of hectic or emaciation, and the discovery of the tubercle bacillus in the urine, will point to the nature of the case. Treatment.—The constitutional remedies for tubercle should be employed, and when pyonephrosis or a peri- nephritic abscess has formed, nephrotomy may be resorted to; but nephrectomy should never be undertaken unless it seems clear that the disease is limited to one kidney, the exception rather than the rule. Cysts of the kidney.—Serous and hydatid cysts may occur in the kidney as elsewhere, but the question of their diagnosis, which is often attended with much diffi- culty, cannot be discussed here. They are very rare. Cysts of small size are common in connection with some forms of chronic Bright's disease; but these only concern the pathologist. The so called cystic degeneration, due to urinary obstruction, pyelitis, pyonephrosis, &c., has already been alluded to. Tumours of the kidney.—Sarcoma and carcinoma are the only tumours which need be referred to. They are characterized by a swelling in the region of the kidney, dulness in the flank, the presence of the colon in front of them, the absence of fluctuation unless they are of a cystic character, blood in the urine, and rapid emacia- tion. Treatment.—If the tumour is diagnosed whilst still small nephrectomy may be done, though an early recurrence is only too probable. "When the tumour is of large size it is beyond the reach of legitimate surgery. Suppression of urine is the term applied to the non-secretion of urine by the kidneys, and must not be confounded with retention of urine, in which the urine is secreted as usual, but its passage from the bladder is obstructed. In the former the bladder is empty; in the latter distended. Suppression as met with m surgical practice is generally due to the shock following an opera- tion or injury on the urinary organs in a patient suffering from chronic renal disease. If not relieved, coma, convul-