DISEASES OE HEGIOKS. ?8B 2, downwards into the iscliio-rectal fossa by the anterior layer of the triangular ligament being continuous around the transverse perineal muscle with the deep layer of the superficial fascia from the perineum ; 3, laterally on to the thighs by the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum being attached to the rami of the pubes and ischium. Hence it passes in the middle line into the cellular tissue of the scrotum and penis, and laterally on to the abdomen, where it is prevented from passing down the thigh by the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the groin (which is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum) being attached along the line of Poupart's ligament. When the membraneous portion of the urethra is ruptured, the urine is confined at first between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and if not let out will make its way (1) forwards, through the anterior layer, and take the course as given above, or rarely (2) backwards, through the pos- terior layer, and then, as when the urethra gives way behind the posterior layer, will make its way around the neck of the bladder, and will be almost inevitably fatal. Wherever the urine spreads, it causes inflammation and sloughing. Symptoms.—The history of a case of extravasation is not uncommonly as follows. A patient with a tight stricture is straining to pass water, he feels something give way, experiences a sensation of relief, and perhaps owing to the tension being removed by some urine being forced into the cellular tissue, the superadded spasm for a time ceases, and a few ounces of urine are passed through the urethra. In half an hour or so a pricking or burn- ing sensation is felt in the perineum, soon followed by pam, and by rapidly increasing swelling of the perineum, scrotum and penis. If the urine is not let out by timely incisions the swelling extends to the groin, and in some cases has been known to reach as high as the axilla. The skin now appears dusky or purplish-red and oedema- tous, and gangrene and sloughing of the infiltrated tissues rapidly ensue. The absorption of the septic products gives rise to constitutional disturbance and fever, which though it may at first run high, soon assumes a low typhoid character, and the patient, especially if the subject of chronic kidney disease, frequently sinks into a comatose state and dies. When the extravasation occurs between the two layers of the triangular ligament, it may