545 ATROPHY OF THE OPTIC NERVE. vision is usually peripherally limited. The chief causes are cerebral tumours, cerebral abscess, tubercular menin- gitis, and nephritis, also orbital inflammations, acute myelitis, syphilis, chlorosis, and lead poisoning. The treatment is chiefly constitutional, but in uni-ocular papillitis incision ijito the nerve-sheath has by some been recommended. 2. Eetro-BULBAR NEURITIS may occur in one eye, dae to orbital periostitis, &c., without at first any ophthalmo- scopic signs, the only symptom being loss of sight and generally pain on movement of the eye. There is usually a central scotoma. As a rule symptoms of optic atrophy follow. Chronic retro-hulhar neuritis (toxic amhlyopia), affecting usually both eyes, is an inflammation of the axial fibres, and is found in persons using excess of tobacco or alcohol, and perhaps in diabetes. The symptoms are diminution of vision usually of both eyes, the fields of vision being normal as to their periphery, but containing a central scotoma (blind spot) for red and green. By the ophthal- moscope there is usually no change to be seen. The patients complain of mist before the eyes, and of confusing gold and silver coins; they generally exhibit want of tone &c. The treatment is directed to improve the general health, and to avoid the exciting cause. Atrophy of the optic nerve may be a primary disease, or secondary to some other optic nerve or retinal affection. By the ophthalmoscope the optic disc is white or greyish, often slightly cupped or filled up; the lamina ' cribrosa is too plainly visible; the retinal vessels, especially the arteries, are too small; the vessels may be accompanied by white streaks on each side; and if there has been previous papillitis, the vessels are curved antero-pos- teriorly and often obscured in places; the scleral ring round the disk is too white and the edges of the disk may be irregular. Atrophy may follow papillitis, retrobulbar neuritis, embolism of the central artery of the retina, retinitis (especially pigmentary), and glaucoma. A form called progressive atrophy is found in locomotor ataxia, insular sclerosis, general paralysis of the insane, and as a purely local disease; it is marked by concentric contrac- tion of the fields of vision, loss of sight, colour blindness, and sometimes central scotoma, and as its name implies progresses to complete blindness. The treatment is generally the administration of anti-syphilitic remedies. N- N