2^^8 BISilASES OF SI*ECIAL TISSUES. In caries tlie tliinned and eroded trabeculae of tlie in- flamed bone become still further tliinned and eroded by the action of the small-cell-exudation and osteoclasts until the affected portion of the bone is completely de- stroyed and replaced by granulation-tissue. Under ap- propriate treatment ossification of the granulation-tissue may occur; more often, however, especially in tuber- culous cases, the inflammatory material undergoes case- ation, and may break down into pus and an abscess be formed, which may remain as such in the interior of the bone or under the periosteum, or later may open exter- nally, giving rise to a sinus leading to the disease. In other cases the small-cell-exudation undergoes further proliferation, and either makes its way to the surface of the bone (Fig. 50), and thence through the soft tissues and skin, or it perforates the articular cartilage and enters a joint {fungating caries). At other times the granulation-tissue merely destroys the bone without the production of pus [dry caries or caries sicca) \ whilst again the inflamed bone in the centre of the area may die en masse from the cutting-ofE of its blood supply, and become separated from the surrounding bone, forming a sequestrum at the centre of the carious spot {caries necrotica)., In tuberculous cases giant-cells and the tubercle bacillus have been discovered in the inflamma- tory exudation. The favourite seat of caries is the cancellous tissue, whereas that of necrosis is the com- pact. It is most frequently met with in the bodies of the vertebrse, in the cancellous ends of the long bones, and in the short bones of the tarsus and carpus. The tuber- cular variety, to which many restrict the term caries, is distinguished by the more marked tendency of the in- flammatory material to undergo caseous changes ; by the soft, greasy, and crumbling condition of the bone; by the more extensive destruction of the bone; and by the little tendency shown towards the formation of new bone and repair. The symptoms at first are those of local chronic osteitis and periostitis, namely, some pain, with oedema and swelling of the soft parts over the inflamed bone; but soon the inflammatory products make their way to the surface, and a sinus or sinuses leading to the carious bone form. The sinuses have generally a button of oedematous granulations at their entrance, and a thin, purulent, and commonly foul-smelling discharge containing bone salts