692 DISEASES OF REGIONS. to recover from the effects of the inflammation. To further insure rest some wash out the stomach with the stomach-pump. With the same end in view no nourish- ment should be given by the mouth for the first twenty- four hours, but ice in small quantities may be sucked or teaspoonfuls of hot water given occasionally to relieve thirst and allay any tendency to vomit. Nutrient sup- positories or nutrient enemata after the first twelve hours may be given by the rectum. Subsequently milk in small quantities at a time may be taken by the mouth, then, in addition, beef-tea; but no solid food should be allowed till the bowels have acted. This they should be permitted to do spontaneously, as no harm will ensue should they continue confined for a week or ten days. If at the end of this time any distension or uncomfortable sensations are experienced, an enema may be given. Such, however, in my experience is seldom required. Conditions that may give rise to a continuance of the symptoms of strangulation after the taxis or herniotonfiy,— As a rule the symptoms of strangulation cease immediately or soon after the successful application of the taxis, or of herniotomy. Should they persist they may depend on—■ 1. The effect of the anaesthetic. 2. Paralysis of the muscular coat of the intestine. 3. The^ piresence of another hernia. 4. The displacement of the hernia, or reduction en masse. 5. The gut becoming gangrenous and giving way. 6. Enteritis or peritonitis. 7. Internal strangulation of the intestine. If the persistence of the symptoms is due to the anaes- thetic they will usually pass off in a few hours. The vomiting, moreover, is usually attended with much retch- ing, and is not of that gushing nature characteristic of strangulation of the bowel. If due to paralysis of the muscular coat of the intestine, the symptoms will also, as a rule, gradually cease under the influence of opium. Should they not do so, however, a careful search should be made, if this has not already been done, for another hernia, and if one is discovered and appears strangulated, it should be explored. If no other hernia exists the continuance of the symptoms may be due to the hernia not having been properly reduced, to peritonitis, to the persistence of the paralysis of the muscular coat of the gut, or to internal strangulation. If, therefore, the hernia is reported not to have slipped back with the usual gurgle, or there is some fulness felt about the hernial ring, the