243 OSTEOMATA. in^. Should she be already pregnant, the question of inducing premature labour must be raised; whilst, should she be at her full time, craniotomy, or in advanced deformity of the pelvis, Oeesarean section, may be neces- sary. In a large number of cases of late, especially in the districts on the continent where the disease is prevalent, oophorectomy has apparently arrested the disease and the bones are said to have again become firm. Acromegaly.—This disease is characterized by a sym- metrical enlargement of the bones of the hands and feet as well as of those of the head and face, the nasal and inferior maxilla being chiefly afPected. The disease is supposed to be associated with changes in the thyroid body, but at the best is at present little understood. 4. Neio Growths in Bone. New Growths.—Nearly all the varieties of tumour described in the section on that subject (p. 70) occur in bone. Some, indeed, as the exostoses, are altogether confined to the bony tissue; others occur in it so frequently that it may be said to be their favourite seat; others, again, are in this situation so rare that they may be dismissed as pathological curiosities. Some, moreover, the carcinomata, only occur in bone as secondary growths, the primary malignant tumours of bone, formerly de- scribed as carcinomata, being now classed as sarcomata. Tumours of bone may spring from the periosteum, the medulla, or the bone itself, and exhibit a remarkable tendency to undergo calcification or ossification, and when of slow growth to assume the character of true bone. OsTEOMATA OR OSSEOUS TUMOURS have the structure of true bone, and are only met with in connection with bone. They must be distinguished from other forms of tumour that have undergone calcification or ossification. They may be divided into the circumscribed and the diffuse. Circumscribed osseous tumours or exostoses occur in two chief forms, the cancellous and the compact. (a.) The cancellous or spongy exostoses consist of can- cellous bone containing marrow in its cancellous spaces, and surrounded by a delicate layer of compact bone, which itself is covered with a capping of cartilage, or sometimes merely with periosteum. They are most fre- R 2