290 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. ANEURYSM. An aneurysm is a tumour containing blood and com- municating with the interior of an artery. Aneurysms may be divided into two main classes, the spontaneous, which are the result of disease of the vessel-walls, and the traumatic^ which are due to a direct injury of the artery and extravasation of blood into the tissues. Here the spontaneous only will receive attention. The trau- matic are described under Injuries of Arteries (p. 209). Spontaneous aneurysm.—Cause.—Aneurysms are most common at that age when the coats of the arteries are liable to be weakened by disease whilst the muscular system is still vigorous, and are chiefly met with among those whose occupations subject them to sudden or irregular strains. Hence, the frequency with which they occur in soldiers, sailors, and the labouring classes, and in men rather than in women. The chief predisposing causes are 1, atheroma, whereby the coats of the artery are softened and unable to resist an increased expansile pres- sure of the blood; and 2, embolism which may lead to in- flammatory changes, and consequent weakening of the arterial walls. Thus the conditions which induce athe- roma and embolism may also be considered as predisposing causes of aneurysm. Of these, however, syphilis, the abuse of alcohol, continued vascular strain, and ulcerative endocarditis may be especially mentioned. The exciting causes are such as produce the rupture or yielding of the diseased coats, either (a) by direct mechanical violence, or {h) by increased blood-pressure in the vessel owing to violent and sudden action of the heart and obstruction by muscular contraction of the capillary flow. Hence, blows or strains, mental emotion, and violent and sudden exertion of all kinds may be mentioned as exciting causes. Process of formation.—An aneurysm may be formed in several ways:—1. By the simple dilatation of a diseased portion of an artery due to the yielding of the softened coats to the expansile force of the blood current. 2. By the giving way of the internal and middle coats at the diseased spot, and the yielding of the external coat to the force of the blood. 3. By the giving way of all the coats at the diseased spot and escape of the blood into the tissues which become.condensed around it to form a sac.