669 EOTEROTOMY. Enteeotomy, or Nj^latok's operatiok, consists in opening the abdomen by a short incision in the middle line or in the right or left groin, seizing the first piece of distended intestine that presents, and securing it to the wound by sutures and then opening it. This operation is employed in cases where the diagnosis of the situation of the obstruction is uncertain, or where though it appears probable that it is in the small intestine or m the colon too high to be relieved by right colotomy, the patient's condition is such that the severe shock and the prolonged manipulation that necessarily attends laparotomy (the operation otherwise indicated) would probably be fatal. It may also be employed in cases of obstruction due to contractions consequent upon the matting together of the small intestines from chronic inflammation, cancer, &c. It should be thoroughly understood, however, that the operation is only intended to relieve the distension of the intestines and prevent their rupture. It does not attack the seat of obstruction. Bat by relieving the acute symptoms it may give time for a diagnosis m doubtful cases to be arrived at; and the patient's condition after it may so far improve as to allow of a more radical course of treatment being undertaken on a future occasion. The method of Grreig Smith (p. 666) is likely to largely replace the above operation. EiS'TEEECTOMY consists in opening the abdomen and excising a portion of the intestine. It may be required ! for irreducible intussusception, carcinomatous stricture, gangrene from strangulation by bands, the closure of fsecal fistulse, wounds of the intestine, &c. Open the abdomen as in laparotomy; draw the portion of intestine I to be removed well out of the wound, and pack it round with moist antiseptic gauze; clamp the intestine with a rubber tube passed through a small incision in the mesen- tery above and below to prevent the escape of faeces; cut out the diseased or damaged part; tie all bleeding vessels; I and then unite the intestine by one of the methods al- ! ready described (page 416). Or if the intestine is much distended and the patient in a state of extreme collapse secure both the proximal and distal portions of the intestine to the wound in the abdominal parietes by I sutures. After the contents of the over distended bowel ■ have been evacuated and the gut has regained its tone the two portions may be united and returned into the* abdomen.