868 APPENDIX. straight across the foot, this drawing up of the heel can to a great extent be prevented and an excellent and use- ful stump may be obtained. The Tarso-metatarsal amputation consists in removing the anterior part of the foot at the joints betv/een the tarsus and metatarsus (Fig. 335, c), leaving the tarsus intact. It may be done—1, by disarticulating the metatarsal bones; 2, by sawing across the bases of all the metatarsal bones ; 3, by disarticulating the four outer metatarsal bones and sawing across the projecting internal cuneiform bone ; 4, by disarticulating the three outer and the first metatarsal bones, and sawing across the prominent base of the second. The disarticulating method is usually called Lisfranc's operation; the disarticulating, with sawing across the internal cuneiform or base of the second metatarsal bone, Hey's. Hey, however, it appears, performed all of the first three operations, but not the last; and so much confusion has arisen as regards wh^t-is meant by Lisfranc's and what by Hey's operation' that the terms had better be dropped. In the disarticulating method, which only need be described, an incision is made across the tarsus from the fifth metatarsal bone to an inch in front of the prominence of the Scaphoid (Fig. 335, 3 to t); a sole-flap is next traced out, as in Chopart's amputation, but it should reach as far as the web of the toes (Fig. 335, t to 3'). The metatarsus is then disarticulated from the tarsus, the only difficulty in doing this arising from the second metatarsal bone dipping in between the cuneiform bones. The knife is now placed behind the bones and made to cut its way out, thus completing the sole-flap. The great toe may be amputated at its tarso-metatarsal joint by a flap taken from the inner side of the foot; or by an oval incision which is carried along the meta- tarsal bone to about the middle of its shaft, then made to diverge to the web between the first and second toes, and carried round the plantar surface of the big toe and back to the spot at the middle of the metatarsal bone. The incision should extend down to the bone, which should be next freed from its remaining connections and dis- articulated, the knife being kept close to the metatarsal bone to avoid injuring the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis with the external plantar artery. When the operation is completed merely a single longitudinal scar remains on the inner side of the foot.