392 INJURIES OF REGIONS. symptoms are urgent and the body cannot be removed by the finger, instant laryngotomy should be performed. But when less urgent, a deliberate attempt should be made to remove it by means of laryngeal forceps aided by the laryngoscope. Sometimes, where extraction would be otherwise impossible, this may be accomplished by catting the body in two by the use of the laryngeal cutting-pliers. These means having failed, an external operation must be undertaken. Thus, when the foreign body is above the cords, it may be removed by sub-hyoid pha- ryngotomy; when between the cords or in the ventricle, by thyrotomy ; when below the cords, by laryngo-tracheotomy or tracheotomy, the forceps in the last instance being passed up through the wound in the trachea. Foreign todies in the trachea and bronchi.—Small objects such as coins, buttons, orange-pips, and fruit-stones, are liable to be drawn into the trachea during a sudden inspiration, while the patient is swallowing or is hold- ing such in his mouth. The accident is most common in children. The foreign body may remain free, or become impacted either in the trachea or a bron- chus (Fig. 110). It is usually said to most frequently enter the right bronchus, that being the larger, and the spur-like projection at the bifurcation of the trachea directing it that way, but the left is the more direct route, and the direction it takes would seem to depend in great part on the shape and size of the foreign body. The symptoms vary somewhat, according as the body is free or impacted, light or heavy. When it is free and light, and, as is usually the case, has fallen into one of the bronchi, there will be sudden and paroxysmal attacks of suffocative cough and dyspnoea, in consequence of the foreign body being driven upwards against the glottis, which then closes spasmodically. On listening over the trachea it Fig. 110.—Foreign body in the right bronchus. The trachea is opened from the front. (St, Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.)