52 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. one of the chief predisposing causes, but it must be remembered that tubercle is not transmitted from the parent to the offspring as is syphilis; (2) In the so-called strumous diathesis ; and (3) In certain states of the sys- tem induced by bad hygiene and food, and imperfect assimilation of food and consequent impairment of nutri- tion. Tubercle is most common in the young, but adults and even old people are liable to it when exposed to like unfavourable conditions, a slight inflammation or injury then generally forming the starting point. Dissemination of Tuherde.—The bacillus having gained admission in one or other of the above-mentioned ways is believed to set up the tubercular process as previously described. The tubercular process may then (1) remain confined to the seat of inoculation, as in some forms of tubercle of the skin. Or (2) with or without any local manifestation it may spread by the lymphatics to the nearest lymphatic glands, and there become arrested. As an example of this may be mentioned the tuberculous or so-called strumous enlargement of the glands of the neck, in which the bacillus is believed to gain admission through a crack or small ulcer of the mucous membrane of the mouth or through an inflamed tonsil. Again (3) the bacillus may pass the glands and enter the circulation, and then either [a) become lodged in some organ or dis- tant part of the body, as the testicle, a bone or a joint, or (&) become disseminated, setting up general acute tuberculosis. The brunt of the affection falls in the latter case either on the lungs, acute tubercular phthisis, or on the membranes of the brain, acute tubercular meningitis. When affecting an organ or tissue, as a testicle or a joint, it may remain localized for a longer or shorter time, and even become cured; or it may set up inflammation, and involve and destroy the whole organ ; or finally become generally disseminated through the system, leading to geneial tuberculosis. Localization of Tubercle.—Tubercle has a special afiinity for certain organs and tissues to the exclusion of others. Serous membranes, such as the pleura, peritoneum, pia mater, and arachnoid, are especially liable to be affected ; whilst, on the other hand, the pericardium and the tunica vaginalis show an immunity. Of all organs the lung is most prone to suffer; next, though much less fre- quently, the testicle, kidney, brain, liver, spleen, supra- renals, and ovaries. The larynx and intestines may be-