TREATMENT OF STRANOULATED HERNIA. 693 ring must be cut down upon and explored, or the wound, if an operation has been performed, opened up. It may then be found (a) that the hernia has been reduced en masse, i,e., that the hernia, along with the sac, has been forced between the fascia transversalis and the perito- neum, a condition most frequently met with when the hernia is femoral; (h) that the neck of the sac has become detached, the intestine remaining strangulated; (c) that the posterior part of the sac has been rent and the hernia, still strangulated at the neck, forced into the sub-serous connective tissue; or {d) that the hernia has passed into a pouch at the neck of the sac instead of into the peritoneal cavity. Under any of the above circum- stances the sac should be drawn down, the condition causing the strangulation accurately ascertained, the stricture, wherever situated, divided, and the intestine returned into the peritoneal cavity. Peritonitis following the reduction of a hernia may be known by the signs already given at page 422, and should be treated as there indicated. Persistent paralysis of the muscular coat, or the existence of internal strangulation, may be suspected when along with the continuance of the symptoms of strangulation of the bowel the signs of the other condi- tions that may give rise to such symptoms, are absent. Should the paralysis not pass off under the influence of time and opium, an enema, or even a purgative may, in some cases, be useful to rouse the intestine to action, whilst, in other instances, it may become necessary to explore the abdomen, open the intestine above the para- lyzed part and suture it to the wound in the parietes. Internal strangulation should be treated as described under La'parotomy. Prognosis,—The prognosis in a case of strangulated hernia will depend on the length of time the hernia has been strangulated, the tightness of the stricture, the presence or absence of gangrene or peritonitis before the operation, the amount of bruising inflicted on the gut by the taxis, the degree of exposure and manipulation to which the gut is subjected during the operation, and the general condition of the patient. Moreover, the prognosis is graver in a small femoral hernia, and in a hernia which has recently come down (inasmuch as in these the con- striction is usually tight), than in an oblique inguinal hernia, or a hernia of long standing, in which the con- striction is usually much less.