670 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Inguinal colotomy is tlie operation of opening the sigmoid flexure of the colon in the left groin [Littre^s operation)» It has been much employed of late in place of lumbar colotomy, especially for carcinoma of the rectum before distension of the colon consequent on the stricture has occurred. The chief advantages claimed for it are : 1, that there is less difficulty in finding the gut; 2, that there is less danger of peritonitis, in that, as the peritoneum has to be opened, all proper precautions can be taken ; 3, that the wound is more superficial, and con- sequently there is less risk of infiltration of the tissues and septic poisoning; and 4, that the groin is a m.ore con- venient situation for an anus than the loin. An oblique incision (Fig. 253, d) about two inches long is made one inch from the anterior superior iliac spine at right angles to a line drawn from the umbilicus to the iliac spine, one inch of the incision being below and one inch above the line. Divide the skin, superficial and deep fascia, muscles, fascia transversalis, and peritoneum on a director. If the gut does not present in the wound carefully search for it with the fingers. It may be known by the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres, by the appendices epiploicae, and by its mesentery running to the left, whereas that of the small intestine runs to the right. Having found the colon, draw it down until the meso-colon is taut so as to avoid prolapse of the bowel subsequent to the operation. Pass two ligatures through the peritoneal and muscular coats of the colon to act as guides, about 1^ inches,apart, drop the bowel back into the peritoneal cavity, and introduce a sponge into the wound to prevent blood entering the peritoneal cavity whilst the peritoneum is being sewn to the skin. Eemove the sponge, draw the colon well into the wound and secure it to the parietal peritoneum by sutures passed through only the peritoneal and muscular coats. Apply an antiseptic dressing, and at the end of three to five days, when adhesions have had time to form, cautiously open the gut. Some Surgeons, for the purpose of forming a spur, and thus preventing the fseces from going down the distal end of the intestine, draw the gut forward by a ligature passed through the mesentery. Others, with this aim in view, divide the colon and secure both open ends to the wound, whilst others again close the lower end by means of Lembert's sutures, and drop it back into the peritoneal cavity. These procedures, in my opinion,