709 CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. Congenital malformations.—Imperforate anus is the only malformation that needs consideration here. Cause, —The intestinal canal in early foetal life ends at some little distance from the surface of the skin in a blind pouch or cloaca, which is common to it and the genito- urinary organs. In the course of development the cutane- ous tissues (epiblast) become invaginated towards the cloaca at the spot which is to be the future anus. The intervening tissues are then gradually absorbed, and a communication is thus established between the cloaca and the surface of the body, the intestinal portion of the cloaca at the same time becoming differentiated from the genito-urinary. An arrest in the above process of de- velopment is the cause of imperforate anus. Thus :— 1. Should no invagination of the skin occur, the anus will be entirely absent. In such a case the intestine may terminate in a blind pouch at a variable distance from the surface, a thin membrane or a considerable thickness of tissue intervening between the skin-surface and the in- terior of the gut. At times the intestine may stop short of the pelvis, the rectum being then of course wholly absent. 2. Should invagination occur, but the inter- vening tissues not be absorbed, an anus, to all external appearances natural, will be present but will be found to terminate in a cul-de-sac a short distance from the sur- face. Here again either a thin membrane, or a consider- able thickness of tissue, may intervene between the top of the cul-de-sac and the interior of the gut. 3. Should the process by which the intestinal canal is normally cut off from the genito-urinary portion of the cloaca, also fail, the intestine, instead of ending in a blind pouch, may communicate with the bladder, prostatic urethra, or vagina. In rare cases the intestine may open in some other abnormal situation, as the perineum or groin. Treatment.—Where only a thin membrane intervenes its division is all that is necessary; but where there is no appearance of an anus, or evidently a considerable thick- ness of tissues between the gut and the surface, a vertical incision should be made in the middle line at the spot where the anus should be normally situated. If the dis- tended bowel is now seen or felt to bulge in the wound it should be exposed with a few touches of the knife, and