107 TREATMENT OF WOIJXDS. Treatment of wounds.—The general principles which should guide us in the treatment of wounds will be con- sidered under the following heads:—1, Arrest of hsemor- rhage; 2, Cleansing of the wound and removal of foreign bodies; 3, ■'Drainage; 4, Closing the wound and keeping it subsequently at absolute rest; 5, Prevention of putre- faction, fermentation, and infective processes; and 6, Constitutional treatment. 1. The arrest of hcemorrhage is considered separately at page 123. 2. The cleansing of the loound and removal of foreign bodies should be done with all gentleness, so as not to bruise more than can possibly be avoided the tissues, the vitality of which is already lowered by the incision through them. Thus the wound should not be sponged or rubbed more than is absolutely necessary, but a stream of pure water, if preferred containing some mild anti- septic, allowed to run through it to wash away any dirt, blood-clot, or other foreign substance. If the wound is deep or irregular, it should be irrigated, taking care when the skin-wound is small not to cause any forcible dis- tension for fear of driving the fluid into the interstices of the tissues where it may act as an irritant and set up in- flammation. Foreign bodies, as glass, splinters, bullets, etc., if lodged in the wound, should be picked out by forceps or other suitable instrument. 3. Drainage,—"Where a wound is quite superficial, and in some situations where the parts are very vascular, as about the face, and for moderate-sized wounds in which the surfaces can be kept in contact by pressure, drainage is not necessary. Such wounds may be completely closed if clean cut and moderately small, or a stitch may be omitted at one end; or a loop of pewter wire inserted but only deep enough to keep the edges of the skin apart at that place. If, however, the wound is large or irregular or lacerated, and the surfaces cannot be kept in contact, efficient drainage of the wound is of the greatest im- portance. Its object is to promote the free escape of the serum, which, as we have seen, is squeezed out during the first twenty-four hours from the coagulable exudation formed upon the surface of the divided tissues as the result of the traumatic inflammation. If this serum is allowed to collect in the deeper parts and irregularities of the wound, it not only mechanically separates the sur- faces and gives rise to tension, a cause in itself of the