395 DISLOCATION- AND FHACl'tJllE. patient usually complains of having ricked his back, i.e., of severe pain localized to one spot, commonly the lumbar region, and increased on movement and pressure. On examination no definite injury, beyond, perhaps, some obscure swelling about the tender spot, or more rarely blood-extravasation, is discoverable. In the cervical region a sprain may sometimes simulate a dislocation, the pain causing the patient to hold the head in a fixed and one-sided position, thus rendering the transverse pro- cesses on one side of the neck more prominent than natural. In the lumbar region a severe sprain may sometimes simulate an injury of the spinal cord, inasmuch as the patient may complain of weakness^of the legs or inability to move them, or may even experience some difficulty in defaecatirig or passing urine. It will be found, however, that in these cases no true paralysis exists, but that the apparent loss of power is due to the pain which is induced on attempts at movement. The tredtment consists in rest, and the application of hot fomentations to relieve pain, and later of stimulating liniments. In severe cases the patient should bo kept in bed for a week or so, and subsequently shampooiDg, mas- sage and galvanism may have to be employed to overcome the pain and stifcess which often last for some time. "Wounds of the spinal membranes and coed may be inflicted by stabs in the back, falls on sharp bodies, &c. When the membranes alone are wounded, there may at first be no signs except perhaps an escape of cerebro- spinal fluid; but later, should inflammation be set up, there will be the usual signs of spinal meningitis. A I wound of the spinal nerves may be known by paralysis of the parts which they supply; a wound of the cord, by paralysis of the parts below the seat of injury. When division is complete the knee-jerk is quite lost, when incomplete the knee-jerk may be exaggerated. The treatment consists in placing the patient at absolute rest, and in keeping the wound perfectly aseptic to prevent inflamraation; but if the cord has been divided, permanent paralysis will necessarily ensue. Should in- flammation occur, the appropriate remedies for meningitis must be administered. (See Work on Medicine,) Dislocation and fracture.—Dislocation of the spine without fracture is exceedingly rare; indeed, except in the cervical region, it is said never to occur. Eracture unaccompanied by dislocation is also uncommon; but