484 INJimiES OF REGIONS. whence it can be drawn on extension of the limb, but returns wben the extension is relaxed, crepitus during these movements being felt. Chronic osteo-arthritis, in which in consequence of the absorption of the head of the bone there is often shortening and eversion, and in consequence of the movement of the osteophytes upon each other crepitus, may be distinguished from intra- capsular fracture, which it may simulate should a patient suffering from it have a fall, by the history of pain, lameness, and stiffness before the injury. In con- tusion of the hip, though there may be eversion of the limb and loss of power, the trochanter retains its normal relations, and there is no shortening or crepitus. It should be remembered, however, that in old people ab- sorption of the neck of the bone may slowly take place after a contusion, and of this the patient should be warned, as otherwise the Surgeon may be accused of overlooking a fracture. The treatment should vary according to the age and powers of the patient. Thus in the old and feeble in whom bony union can scarcely be expected, and in whom, moreover, long confinement on the back is liable to pro- duce bed-sores and even fatal hypostatic congestion of the lungs, the limb should be merely placed at rest between sand-bags, and the patient only confined to bed for a few days. He should then be allowed to get about on crutches with the parts secured in some form of stiff bandage or moulded leather case, or on a Thomas's hip-joint splint. In younger and fairly vigorous patients an attempt may be made to obtain bony union either by means of exten- sion with the weight and pulley or by the long splint. Confinement to bed for six or eight weeks is usually necessary, followed for another two or three months by the use of some form of stiff apparatus. 2. Extracapsular fractures, though more fre- quent in the old than in the young, are not, like intra- capsular fractures, so essentially an injury of old age. Thus, they are frequently met with between the ages of forty and fifty, whereas intracapsular fractures hardly ever occur in persons under fifty. Cause.—Usually direct violence as a fall or a severe blow on the great trochanter. State of the parts.—The fracture commonly extends through the base of the neck just outside the capsule, and is nearly always associated with a fracture of the great trochanter. It may be impacted or non-impacted, the