457 FEACTUKES OF THE HUMERUS. tact and to keep them so by an axillary pad, strapping and bandage; apply a shield over the shoulder, and confine the arm to the side. D. Separation of the upper epiphysis can only occur in patients under twenty-one years of age. Nature of the displacement.—The upper fragment, which includes the tuberosities, is drawn outwards by the three muscles inserted into the greater tuberosity, and the lower frag- ment upwards by the deltoid, and inwards by the three muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges. The signs are similar to those of the extracapsular fracture, save that the projecting end of the lower fragment is smooth and rounded in place of being rough and uneven, and pseudo-crepitus, instead of bony crepitus, is elicited on extension and rotation of the arm. Method of union.— Usually bony, but with much less production of callus, and consequently less impairment of movement than in other fractures of the upper end. Treatment.—Like that of fracture of the surgical neck. 2. The shaft of the humerus may be fractured in any situation, but more often in its lower than in its upper half. Causes.—Direct or indirect violence, rarely muscular action. Nature of the displacement.—When the line of fracture is transverse little displacement occurs; but when it is oblique, the fragments have a tendency to glide over one another owing to muscular action, although this is somewhat counteracted by the weight of the arm. When the fracture is above the insertion of the deltoid the upper fragment is drawn inwards by the muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges; whilst the lower frag- ment is drawn upwards by the biceps and triceps, and outwards by the deltoid. When below the deltoid, the upper fragment is drawn outwards by that muscle and the lower fragment upwards and inwards by the biceps and triceps. Signs, usually obvious, viz., pain, preter- natural mobility, and generally deformity and shortening; whilst crepitus is readily obtained. Method of union.— Generally bony; but it is one of the most common situa- tions of ununited fracture. Treatment.—Place the arm and forearm on an inside rectangular splint with three short splints to the humerus, one in front, one behind, and one on the outer side. Or, apply four short splints to the humerus and support the forearm by a sling, leaving the elbow free, so that the weight of the arm may act as an extending force. The splints should be worn, from a