188 INJtTHIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. not, enlarging the wound in the skin if necessary, but taking care not to remove more bone than is sufficient to accomplish the object. Splinters when attached by periosteum should not be removed but simply placed in position. The parts should then be secured in some form of apparatus, so arranged that the wound is not covered by it, but is freely accessible for dressing without disturbing the fragments. The wound should be rendered aseptic by washing out all corners with some antiseptic fluid, and kept freely drained to prevent the decomposition of any extravasated blood and discharges. A careful inspection ought to be made daily to see that the drainage is efficient; and if any collection of pus, which is apt to form in the intermuscular planes, be discovered, it should be let out with antiseptic precautions and the wound drained. Any portions of bone that may necrose should be removed as soon as loose. When the wound has healed the fracture should be treated in the same way as a simple one. Any complications, as erysipelas, saprsemia, &c., that may occur, must be treated as described in other parts of the book. The constitutional treatment is the same as that indicated in other severe injuries. (See also Simple Fracture.) Question of amputation in compound fracture,—Ln slight and uncomplicated cases, and in those severe injuries in which the limb is completely shattered, the course to be pursued is quite clear; in the one case to spare the limb, and in the other to amputate immediately. But in other instances the question of attempting to save versus ampu- tate becomes one of the most serious and anxious that the surgeon has to decide. No one sign of those to be men- tioned below as calling for amputation is in itself alone in every case a sufficient reason for amputating, and when in doubt we cannot do better than follow the rule laid down by Mr. Bryant of waiting," unless the patient be old, in which case immediate amputation should be per- formed. "With this reservation it may be said that we should amputate,—1. If there is great laceration of the soft parts and extensive loss of skin. 2. If there is much comminution of the bone. 3. If the main artery or nerves of the limb are torn. 4. If a large joint is implicated. 5. If the limb is likely to be of little subsequent service from the severity of the injury; and 6. If the patient is old or of a broken-down constitution. The above indica- tions for amputation are more imperative if the fracture