56 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SUHGICAL DISEASES. sometimes dark. In the second, distinguislied as the phlegmatic or melanclwlic, the skin, pale or dark, is thick, muddy, and often harsh, the general aspect dull and heavy; hair dark and coarse; the mind is often, but not always, slow and sluggish. Children especially, in whom the diathesis is strongly marked, are often distin- guished by the narrow and prominent chest, the tumid and prominent abdomen; and the paste-like complexion; the limbs are wasted; the circulation languid; chilblains are common on the extremities ; the mucous membranes particularly, and above all of them the digestive, are liable to morbid action ; the breath is often sour and foetid; the tongue is furred, and the papillae towards the apex red and prominent; the bowels act irregularly, and the evacuations are unusually offensive; the digestion weak; the appetite variable and capricious." An account of the lesions of the skin, mucous mem- branes, tonsils, lymphatic glands, bones, joints, testis, &c., which were regarded by the older pathologists as local symptoms of struma but are now generally believed to be due to tubercular infection, is given in the section on Diseases of Eegions. SYPHILIS. Syphilis may be divided into 1, the acquired, and 2, the inherited or congenital. Acquired syphilis is a constitutional disease due to direct inoculation with a specific virus. It is charac- terized by the appearance, after a certain period of incu- bation during which the poison is circulating in the system, of a local lesion at the seat of inoculation, fol- lowed by induration of the nearest lymphatic glands, and after a variable time by certain affections of the skin and mucous membranes and more rarely of the deeper tissues, and still later by fibroid changes in the tissues and viscera, or the formation of gummata which are exceed- ingly liable to break down and suppurate. General outline of the disease.—Beyond perhaps a slight abrasion, which heals in a few days, and is possibly thought no more of, nothing is probably noticed till about three weeks to a month. Attention is then called to the part by a slight irritation, and a red papule may be noticed which slowly enlarges, becomes indurated at the base, and perhaps ulcerates. This papule or ulcer is