DISEASES OE SPECIAL TtSStTES. 238 out in what respects the affections of tubercular origin differ from those of a simple or traumatic nature. Here it need only be added that miliary tubercles may often be found scattered through the medulla and in the cancellous tissae in cases of acute tuberculosis; but as in these cases the bone-affection plays but a secondary part and cannot be diagnosed during life, nor indeed as a rule gives rise to any symptoms, it need not be further described. EiCKETS, though generally described under Diseases of Bone, is a constitutional affection occuiTing in infancy and early childhood. It is characterized by impaired nutrition and arrest of development of the whole body, and especially by the softening and the resulting de- formity of the bones. Causes. — (1) Malnutrition pro- duced by improper food, especially an excess of the starchy elements during infancy; (2) debility of the mother during gestation and lacta- tion as the result of excessive child - bearing or over - suckling; and (3) bad hygiene, i,e,, want of fresh air and sunshine, residence in damp dwellings, uncleanliness, and lack of attention generally. Struma and syphilis in the parent, but I think without sufficient evidence, are also given by some as causes. Pathology, — The bone - changes consist essentially in the forma- tion of soft, vascular, imperfectly- ossified bone, which replaces the healthy bone as the latter is gradually absorbed in the normal process of development. This ill-formed bone is produced both at the line of the epiphysis and under the periosteum, i,e,^ in those situations where active growth normally occurs. In the former situation the intermediate semi-transparent bluish zone of ossifying cartilage between the diaphysis and epiphysis is greatly increased in thickness and its line of junction with the bone is no longer straight but broken, in conse- quence of the irregular advance of ossification. The adjacent bone is soft and spongy, and contains here and Fig. 59.—A longitu- dinal section of a rickety femur. (St. Bartholomew's Hos- X^ital Museum.)