713 HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. weight of the column of portal blood ; and their situation between the muscular and mucous coats of the rectum, so that they receive but little support during defsecation, render them exceedingly liable to become dilated or varicose. Anything, therefore, that tends to congest the portal system, and hence obstruct the return of venous blood from the haemorrhoidal veins, such as high living, habitual constipation, cirrhosis of the liver, heart-disease, &c., may be looked upon as a predisposing cause; whilst anything determining local congestion of the part, such as straining at stool or to pass water in cases of enlarged prostate or stricture of the urethra; the pressure of the gravid uterus, distended colon, or ovarian or other pelvic tumour; stricture of the rectum; and the abuse of aloetic purgatives, may be regarded as an exciting cause. Pathology.—Hsemorrhoids consist at first of little more than dilated veins, but after they have existed some time the blood in their interior may clot, the vein-walls hypertrophy, and the connective tissue of the dilated vein become infiltrated and thickened. If a pile is now cut into, it presents a spongy vascular structure, and there is often a small artery in its centre. Piles may be situated external to the sphincter, and are then covered with skin {external or hlind piles); or within the sphincter, when they are covered with mucous membrane (internal or Heeding piles). In many instances, however, they may be covered in part with skin, and in part with mucous membrane {mixed piles). An oedematous and swollen condition of the muco-cutaneous folds and hypertrophied flaps of skin about the margin of the anus, although not produced by dilatation of the veins, is also generally spoken of as piles. External piles occur as soft, globular, pinkish-blue swellings, or as moderately firm fleshy tumours, or as little more than loose hypertrophied folds of skin. Internal piles also present various forms. They may con- sist of small hsemorrhoidal veins, dilated and varicose, giving the mucous membrane a dark purplish colour, and rendering it liable to become prolapsed during def eecation ; or they may form either slightly raised, flattish and oblong elevations, or distinctly globular pedunculated swellings (Fig. 274). They may appear very vascular from the congestion of the mucous membrane covering them, and then constitute the bleeding pile; or they may be firm and fleshy and of a reddish brown colour from the thickening of the mucous membrane, and then do not