INJURIES OE REGIONS. 376 treatment, ensue. Thus, if there are signs of local sup- puration between the bone and dura mater, the trephine should be applied over the seat of injury, or if one is not apparent, over the motor area at the spot indicated by localized paralysis or spasm. If, on removing the bone, the dura mater is seen to bulge, and the pulsations of the brain cannot be felt, the dura mater should be perforated, and if pus is still undiscovered, but the signs of suppura- tion are well marked, an exploring needle should be cautiously passed into the brain-substance. If there are signs of cerebral abscess, a trephine should be applied over the suspected spot, the dura mater incised, the brain carefully punctured, and if pus is discovered, a free incision made to let it out. If the suppuration appears to be general rather than local, no operative treatment should be undertaken. Hernia cerebri is a protrusion of brain-substance through a hole in the cranium and dura mater. Cause. It appears to be due to a localized swelling of the brain, consequent upon inflammation, and may occur after any injury of the cranium where there is loss of bone and a wound or sloughing of the dura mater, with bruising or laceration of the brain. Pathology,—The protrusion con- sists of brain-substance infiltrated with inflammatory pro- ducts and blood, and is the result of the inflammatory swelling finding a vent in the only possible way in which it can escape, viz., through the hole in the cranium. The effused blood is due to the rupture of the obstructed capillaries, consequent upon the protruding mass be- coming constricted by the margins of the aperture through which it is protruding. At times, when the rupture of the capillaries is extensive, the tumour con- sists almost entirely of clotted blood. Signs.—The hernia appears as a reddish-brown, blood-stained, fungus-looking mass, overhanging the hole in the cranium, through which it has protruded, and often pulsating synchronously with the brain. Should the inflammation subside, the protrusion will gradually recede, and the patient recover; but should it continue, the hernia will increase in size, and as more and more of the brain is involved, the patient sinks into a comatose state and dies. At times the protrusion may become constricted at its base, and slough away and the parts cicatrize; or an abscess may form in its interior and in the contiguous part of the brain, and de^th result frojn cerebral compression. The