598 DISEASES OE HEGIOKS. mucli deformity. Constitutional remedies, as cod-liver oil, must be given, and the parts cleansed by lotions, applications of iodoform, &c. When obstinate, scraping the part with a Yolkmann's spoon, and removal of the dead bone, is the treatment indicated. Syphilitic affections of the nose. In the early stages of syphilis, catarrhal inflammation and mucous tubercles are often met with, especially in infants, in whom they give rise to the obstructed and noisy respira- tion popularly known as snuffles. Later, extensive ulcerations, gummata followed by deep ulcers, necrosis or caries of the bones and cartilages, destruction of the septum with falling in of the nose and perforation of the palate may occur, and when combined with destruction- of the soft tissues and skin, are productive of great de- formity. When a small portion of bone in the deeper recesses is necrosed, it may not always be easy to find, but may be suspected by the continuance of a muco- purulent discharge and the foetor so peculiar to dead bone, the presence of foul ulcers, the history or consti- tutional signs of syphilis, and the absence of signs of hypertrophic or atrophic catarrh. Often the bone may be struck on examination with the probe. Treatment,— Iodide of potassium should be given in large doses, com- bined, if necessary, with quinine or bark, and at times with mercury. Locally, the parts should be cleansed and disinfected by the application of carbolic or other sprays, and when dead bone can be detected it should be removed, if loose, through the anterior nares or from behind the palate by forceps; but sometimes it may be necessary for obtaining a sufficient exposure to resort to the method of Eouge, or to cut through the upper lip and turn aside the ala of the nose. In congenital syphilis the adminis- tration of small doses of grey powder, followed by iodide of potassium and cod-liver oil, is productive of the most happy results. In the ulcerative form, iodide of potas- sium in large doses should be given. Lupus, though far more common on the exterior of the nose, may sometimes be met with in the interior. It then generally attacks the cartilage of the septum, leading to perforation. It is attended with a foetid discharge. The ulcer is covered with scabs, and surrounded with reddish tubercles. Treatment.—Cod-liver oil, arsenic, and the complete destruction of the affected tissue by caustics, or by scraping, is the proper treatment.