849 OSTEOCLASIA—OSTEOTOMY. priate remedies, will generally effect a cure. In confirmed cases, and in older patients, however, little must be ex- pected from splints or instruments. By their use the limb can no doubt be straightened, but only at the expense of stretching the external lateral ligament, the legs being rendered flail-like, and the patient being unable to walk or even stand without his irons. Eor such some form of osteo- clasia or osteotomy is usually required. Osteoclasia consists in breaking the bone either with the hands or with the osteoclast. Manual osteoclasia is seldom employed except for the correc- tion of rickety bow-legs or knock-knee in young subjects when the bones are moderately soft. For fracturing larger and stronger bones the osteoclast is required. The limb is properly ad- justed between the arms of the instru- ment and the force applied by means of a screw in Grrattan's osteoclast, or by levers in that of Thomas. Osteotomy is usually done by Mace wen's or Eeeves' modified Og- ston's method. 1. Macewen^s operation consists in chiselling through the femur just above the epiphysis, but leaving the posterior surface, which is in contact with the popliteal artery, intact, and snapping this across by forcibly bending the bone. 2. In Reeves' modification of Ogstones operation the internal condyle is first loosened with a chisel, and then made to slide upwards on the shaft of the femur by forcibly straightening the leg. The chisel is introduced behind the synovial membrane and should not be driven so far into the condyle as to endanger the opening of the joint. The line of incision through the femur in these operations is shewn in Fig. 325. The incision in the soft tissues which in either operation should be merely long enough to admit the chisel, may in each be made vertically two fingers' breadth above the patella and mid- way between the inner edge of the rectus and the tendon of the adductor magnus. The operations should be per- formed antiseptically and the limb secured to a long Fig. 325. — A, fine of section in Macewen's; B, in Ogston's ; and C, in Reeves' modified Og- ston's opera,tion. W. 3 I