727 HYDBONEPHROSIS, ■with pus to the end, though it may at times be diminished in quantity or even suppressed. It may or may not contain blood. Treatment as a rule is of little avail; but the same general plan should be followed as described under simple interstitial nephritis. Where the cause can be effectually removed recovery may at times take place. Circumscribed abscess may occur in the kidney substance or in the cellular tissue around [peri-nephritic abscess). It must be distinguished from pyonephrosis, in which the pelvis and calices are distended with pus. Cause.—It is: generally due to injury, jDysemia, or renal calculus. When it occurs in the peri-renal tissue, it may be consecutive to abscess or other disease of the kidney itself; or it may be due to causes independent of the kidney, as cold, disease of the spine, and other conditions leading to the formation of abscesses. The symptoms are those of deep suppuration, attended with certain peculi- arities on account of its situation, which however cannot be here discussed. The treatment consists in making a free incision into the abscess through the loin. Hydrojs'ephrosis is an over-distension of the pelvis of the kidney with altered urine. Cause.—Any condition in the bladder, ureter, or pelvis of the kidney, producing mechanical obstruction to the outflow of urine. These conditions may be divided into the congenital, such as twists of the ureter, smallness of its vesical orifice, &c., and into the acquired, such as impaction of a calculus in the ureter, enlarged prostate, stricture of the urethra, &c. Pathology.—The pelvis, and subsequently the calices of the kidney, become distended with urine, the cortical sub- stance is destroyed by the pressure of the retained urine, and the whole organ finally converted into an irregular cyst. The hydronephritic fluid consists of altered urine, and may contain hardly a trace of urea. Sympto ms. —When the obstruction is complete, a tumour is found in the ab- domen, and often attains a great size. It may then be mistaken for an ovarian cyst, a hydatid cyst of the liver or omentum, a distended gall-bladder, a splenic tumour, a solid tumour of the kidney or pyonephrosis. From these a hydronephrotic kidney may generally be distinguished by the colon being in front of it, by the presence of fluctuation, by its dulness to percussion, by its situation in the flank, by its projection more or less in the loins, by the uterus being free and not displaced, and by the