DISEASES OF REGIONS. 800 hot poultices must be applied and a free incision in a vertical direction made as soon as pus has formed. Should any intractable sinuses, as frequently happens, be left after the bubo has suppurated, they should be laid freely open, and allowed to granulate from the bottom. 3. The sloughing sore is due to want of cleanliness or the retention of irritating discharges by a long foreskin, and generally occurs in weakly or debilitated subjects. The sore, which is covered with a yellow slough and is surrounded by an angry areola of inflammation, spreads rapidly and is attended with considerable swelling and oedema of the penis. The general appearances of the ulcer and its appropriate treatment have already been given in the section on Ulcers (p. 37). 4. The phagedenic sore.—Phagedsena may attack both the hard and soft sore, but is said by Mr. Hutchinson to be a more frequent complication of the former than of the latter. Like the sloughing sore, it may be due to want of cleanli- ness and neglect, or to the irritation of the discharges retained by a long foreskin. It seldom, however, occurs to any serious extent, except in those whose constitutions are broken down by want of food, abuse of alcohol, de- bauchery, or exhausting disease. For a description of the character and treatment of this ulcer see p. 38. Epithelioma of the penis generally begins as a warty growth or as an ulcer on the glans or inner surface of the prepuce. Old age is looked upon as the chief predis- posing, and the irritation of retained secretion under a long prepuce as the common exciting cause. The in- durated , sinuous and everted edges of the ulcer, the warty base, sanious and foul discharge, rapid growth, advanced age of the patient, and later, the involvement of the inguinal glands, will generally serve to distinguish it from warts or venereal ulcers for which it may be mistaken. If allowed to run its course the whole penis becomes infiltrated with the growth; the lumbar, as well as the inguinal glands, become involved; sloughing and ulceration ensue, and the patient generally dies of ex- haustion or haemorrhage. The internal organs are not usually affected. Treatment,—If seen early, the growth alone may be removed. As a rule, however, the penis should be amputated in front of the scrotum unless the glands are much involved or the disease extends back- wards beyond this point. In such a case the scrotum may, under certain conditions, be split, the whole penisj