INJURIES OP REGIONS. 448 knowledge of the anatomy of the joint, and a correct diagnosis of the nature of the displacement. After-treatment.—The joint should be placed on a splint and the arm in a sling, and evaporating lotions or ice applied to prevent inflammation. Passive movements should be cautiously begun about ten days or a fortnight after the injury. Complications.—1, Fracture of (a) the coronoid process; (b) the olecranon; (c) the neck of the radius; {d) the lower end of the humerus; and (e) the condyles of the humerus; 2, separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus; 3, wound of the joint; 4, laceration of the main artery;' and 5, injury of the ulnar or other nerve. Treatment of compound dislocation of the elhow.—When the patient is young, the wound small, the laceration and bruising of the soft parts but slight, and the bones are uninjured, the dislocation should be reduced, and the case treated as a wound of the joint. Otherwise excision of the joint, or, in severe cases, amputation, must be practised. Dislocation of the wrist is very rare. The carpus with the hand may be displaced either backwards or forwards. In the dislocation backwards, which is the more common variety, the carpus forms a projection on the dorsal surface of the wrist, whilst the ends of the radius and ulna project on the palmar surface. It resembles CoUes' fracture, which was formerly confused with it. In the dislocation the styloid processes of the radius and ulna are on the normal level, and are nearer the knuckles than is natural, and there is no crepitus. Treatment. — Eeduction is easily e:ffected by making extension on the hand and pressing upon the displaced bones. The forearm and hand should then be secured to a splint, and passive movements begun early to prevent stift'ness. Dislocation of the lower end of the radius FROM THE ULNA may be produced by a violent twist of the hand. When the twist is in the direction of prona- tion, the radius is displaced forwards; when of supination, backwards. The former is the more common. The hand accompanies the radius, and the styloid process of the ulna projects prominently in the opposite direction and has been sometimes forced through the skin. Treatment.— Whilst making extension from the hand, manipulate the bone into position and retain it there by a compress and splint.