568 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Treatment,—All sources of irritation, especially smoking, stimulants and condiments, should be avoided; anti- syphilitic remedies given where indicated; and soothing washes of chlorate of potash or borax applied. Should any of the leucoplakial patches show signs of ulceration the whole patch should be at once excised; or should signs of epithelioma already be present the whole or half of the tongue should be removed. Ulceration oe the tongue maybe simple,tubercular, syphilitic, lupoid, or epitheliomatous. ' Aphthous ulcera- tion, and that following mercurial salivation, have been described under stomatitis. Simple ulceration may depend on digestive disturbance {dyspeptic ulcer) or on irritation, as of a sharp or carious tooth, hot pipe stem, &c. {dental or irritable ulcer). Both varieties are generally superficial, and unattended with the induration and infiltration characteristic of epi- thelioma. The dyspeptic ulcer usually occurs on the dorsum of the tongue near the tip. The ulceration is sometimes extensive and multiple, and is often accom- panied by some superficial glossitis at other parts of the tongue. The dental ulcer is situated on the side of the tongue, and generally corresponds with a carious or sharp tooth. At first it may be a mere superficial red abrasion, but if neglected, it becomes a distinct ulcer, irregular in shape, and surrounded with an inflammatory area. The edges are abrupt and a little raised, but not everted; the base is depressed, sloughing, and sometimes phagedsenic, but not indurated unless the ulcer has existed some time, when it may become callous. It is always unattended with infiltration. Treatment.—In the dyspeptic ulcer the diet and bowels must be carefully regulated, bismuth or soda in infusion of calumba given internally, and sooth- ing washes or borax and honey applied locally. Caustics must be avoided. In the dental ulcer any offending tooth musd) be filed, stopped, scraped, or extracted, in short, every source of irritation removed. The ulcer will then rapidly heal, but if neglected it may become epithelio- matous. On the first appearance of infiltration, therefore, free excision is imperative. Tubercular ulceration of the tongue is rare, and generally occurs in young adult males, the subjects of phthisis or of general tuberculosis. It usually begins as a small pimple or nodule on the dorsum of the tongue, especially near the tip. This, after a short time, breaks down into a