HYDROPHOBIA. 167 reflex irritation is diminislied or lost. Hence the occur- rence of the spasms on the slightest provocation. Finally, that should the patient not succumb to spasm of the glottis or muscles of respiration, the afitected nerve- centres become exhausted and no longer respond at all to the reflexes necessary to carry on life, and the heart's action in consequence ceases. The nature of the poison is not known, though the belief is gaining ground that the disease depends in some way upon a micro-organism, since rod-like bodies have been discovered in connection with the hsemorrhagic lesions in the cerebral cortex, and a micro-organism has been isolated by inoculating fowls with the virus taken from rabid animals. Symptoms of hydrophobia,—At first there may be prick- ing pain at the site of the wound, which has generally long since healed. The patient, if an adult, has often much mental anxiety, and with the onset of the symp- toms may become melancholic. As the disease becomes fully developed the symptoms point to disturbance in the medulla, especially about the centres for, deglutition and respiration. Thus there is increasing difficulty in swal- lowing in consequence of pharyngeal spasm, and a peculiar click in respiration in consequence of spasm of the diaphragm. The pharyngeal spasms are at first only excited by attempts to swallow, but subsequently the sight of water and the sound of its trickling from one vessel to another, a blast of cold air, or a sudden light is sufficient to set them up. Swallowing is now quite impossible, and viscid saliva is forcibly hawked up and expectorated about. The spasms which begin in the pharynx extend to the muscles of respiration and then become general; the pain is agonizing and the patient may have hallucinations or violent delirium, but often remains sensible of his dreadful condition to the end. Paralysis finally ensues, and death usually occurs from involvement of the respiratory muscles. The spasms sometimes diminish as the paralysis advances, and the patient may sink into a delusive calm, during which the power of swallowing may be regained. Sometimes the chief symptom throughout is advancing paralysis. Such cases resemble dumb rabies of dogs. JDeath may be due in the earlier stages to spasm of the glottis or muscles of respiration; later to paralysis of the muscles of respiration or to exhaustion. Diagnosis.—The intermittent character of the spasms