163 GLATOERS. nlceration of tTie fauces. The breath and the exhalations of the body have a peculiar sweet odour, and albumen may be found in the urine. At about the end of a week metastatic abscesses form in various parts, as the lungs, liver and joints; or dilfuse suppuration may be set up in the serous cavities, and signs of pericarditis, pleurisy, or peritonitis ensue. Diarrhoea sets in, then delirium, and the patient dies exhausted usually during the second week. In the meanwhile, the wound, if one exists, is generally foul and suppurating, though later it may become dry and cease to form pus; in some chronic cases, which are rare, however, the wound may heal. The prognosis is extremely unfavourable; acute cases are always fatal, each rigor making the chance of recovery more hopeless. At times, however, the disease may run a chronic course {chronic jpycemia), differing from the acute in degree rather than in kind. Thus the rigors are less frequent or none may occur. The viscera, as a rule, are not affected, and the abscesses show a special predilection for the joints. The patient may die after some weeks, or may linger for some months, or very slowly recover after one or more relapses, with probably stifeess of one or more joints. Or he may subsequently die of phthisis, albuminuria, or lardaceous disease. Treatment,—Little or nothing can be done in the way of treatment in acute cases, when once the pysemic pro- cess is established, beyond supporting the strength by fluid nourishment and stimulants, opening abscesses as they are formed, and placing the patient under the most favourable hygienic conditions possible. Measures should, of course, be taken to drain the wound and render it aseptic if this has been neglected. Quinine in large doses is generally advised, but little must be expected from it. In infective osteomyelitis and periostitis ampu- tation through the joint above the affected bone should be done if pj^semia appears imminent but has not fully- declared itself. In chronic cases, when convalescence has ensued, a sea voyage or residence at Aix-la-Chapelle or other suitable spa may be of benefit. Glanders is a specific infective disease common amongst horses, and occasionally communicated to man by inocu- lation through a wound or the unbroken mucous mem- brane. The poison is believed to be a specific form of micro-organism, since in glanders a bacillus has been found, which after several cultivations retains the power M 2