409 INjruiES OF THE ABDOMEIf. front of the latissimus dorsi, across the ribs, the portions of which it is intended to excise. The edges of the wound being retracted to expose the ribs an incision is next made through the periosteum along the course of each rib for the required distance, the periosteum separated with a raspatory from both the outer and inner surface, and the rib then cut through with the saw or bone-forceps at each end of the incision, the soft parts being protected by a spatula passed beneath the rib. Tapping the pericardium,—The puncture should be made with the aspirator in the fourth or fifth intercostal space on the left side about two inches from the sternum or immediately to the left of the sternum. Care should be taken not to injure the internal mammary or an inter- costal artery, and not to thrust the needle too deep lest the heart be punctured. Incision and drainage of the pericardium may be re- quired for pus in its cavity. An incision about two inches long should be made along the upper border of the fifth or sixth rib, beginning one inch from the sternum. When the pericardium is reached it should be freely opened, a drainage-tube inserted, and antiseptic dressings applied. Fneumotomy, or incising the lung for the purpose of opening an abscess or hydatid cyst, or of draining a phthisical or bronchiectatic cavity, has in a few instances been done. An incision is made down to the pleura, a trocar and cannula then thrust into the cavity in the lung, and the wound made by the cannula cautiously enlarged by dressing forceps. INJURIES OE THE ABDOMEN. Contusions of the abdominal wall, especially when due to a sharp or sudden blow or a severe crush, should always be regarded as serious, as they may be complicated . by grave internal injuries. Thus, the peritoneum may be lacerated, one of the viscera ruptured, or a large blood- vessel injured and blood extravasated into the peritoneum or subperitoneal tissue ; whilst among the minor compli- . cations may be mentioned rupture of the rectus or other muscle of the abdominal wall accompanied by blood- effusion {hcematoma) Sind possibly followed by suppuration and abscess. Even where no injury to a viscus has been sustained, a contusion of the abdomen is nearly