430 INJITRIES OF HEGIOKS. become impacted just witliiii the anus, there giving rise to much irritation or pain, and often causing an ischio- rectal abscess. The removal of som-e of these bodies, when of large size, is frequently attended with consider- able difficulty, requiring an ansesthetic, dilatation of the sphincter, and the use of various forceps or even the passage of the whole hand. Injuries of the pudenda.—Contusions and wounds of all kinds may be met with, and require no special remark further than:—that ecchymosis of the loose cellular tissue is often extensive; that wounds, though apt to be attended with considerable hsemorrhage from the great vascularity of the parts, on this account also heal very readily ; and that serious consequences from such injuries are exceedingly rare. HEMATOMA OF THE LABIA MAJORA sometimes occurs from injury, especially during pregnancy or parturition, the parts being congested at those times. The tumour may attain a large size, owing to the laxity of the tissues. The blood generally becomes absorbed, but suppuration may occur or the blood become encysted. The applica- tion of ice will generally control the haemorrhage. A hsematoma should on no account be opened unless suppuration takes place, when a free incision will be required. Wounds of the yagina perhaps more frequently fall under the care of the obstetrician than of the surgeon. The surgeon, however, may be called upon to arrest hsemorrhage from this canal, consequent upon laceration inflicted by falling upon some sharp object, or the intro- duction of a foreign body. The application of ice, or, if necessary, careful plugging with cotton-wool, or cotton- wool soaked in perchloride of iron, will usually suffice. Perforation of the walls of the yagina, with injury of the bladder, peritoneum, or intestines, is the occasional result of wounds of the vagina, and is usually fatal. Foreign bodies in the yagina.—Pessaries that have been introduced and forgotten by the patient, or possibly without her knowledge, are the foreign bodies most fre- quently found in the vagina, but various other articles have at times been met with. Their long retention here is often productive of a foul-smelling discharge, and may lead to the perforation of the walls of the rectum or bladder and an incurable fistula.