DISEASES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. 605 a bandage, is usually required. I never employ the syringe, as I believe it is one of the chief causes of the middle ear trouble which sometimes occurs after the re- moval of these growths. As a precaution against cold T always confine the patient to his bed or room for a few days. The frontal, ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses, as well as the antrum, may be the seat of simple or of purulent catarrh. The catarrh may be due to simple extension from the nose or to the presence of nasal polypi. The most characteristic sign is a unilateral, purulent, and usually inodorous discharge, unattended by necrosis of bone. When it comes from the frontal sinuses there is usually frontal headache, when from the antrum some pain or tenderness on pressure on the cheek, and when ' from the ethmoidal or sphenoidal sinuses a deep-seated feeling of oppression at the back of the nose. Moreover I the discharge when frontal or antral can be seen from the I front trickling over the inferior or middle turbinal; but when sphenoidal or posterior ethmoidal, as a rale only on I posterior rhinoscopy. If in doubt as to its source, the antrum should be tested by electric illumination or ex- j plored by a fine trocar and cannula thrust in below the i inferior turbinal. Treatment.—Sprays such as are men- I tioned at page 597 should first be used to subdue the nasal i catarrh. If the discharge still continues an attempt I may be made to wash out the frontal sinus through the [ nares by the Eustachian catheter or, if this fail, the sinuses may be opened externally by the trephine and I drained. The antrum may be opened and washed out through the nares, the front wall or the alveolus of a tooth. . The sphenoidal or ethmoidal sinuses may be j drained by cautiously puncturing through the nose. DISEASES OF THE PHARYNX AND (ESOPHAGUS. Pharyngitis, or inflammation of the pharynx, is commonly of the catarrhal variety {acute and chronic pharyngitis), but it may fall chiefly on the glands of the pharynx [follicular or granular pharyngitis), or more rarely, may spread deeply and end in suppuration {phlegmonous pharyngitis). At times it is attended with deficient secretion and atrophy of the mucous membrane [pharyngitis sicca), and occasionally assumes an erysipe-