79 TUMOTJRS. white; tlie angiomata, or naeyi ; the lympliangiomata con- sisting of dilated lymphatics, and the lymphomata and lymphadenomafa consisting of lymphatic glandular tissue, will receive no further attention here (see Ncevi, Diseases of Nerves and Lymphatics). Unstriped muscle tissue, it may be said, however, is frequently found in the so-called fibroid tumours {myo-fibromata) of the uterus, of which, indeed, it often forms the chief part. It is also found in the chronically enlarged prostate. 0. Tumours of the type of embryonic connective tissue. (^Sarcomata,) Sarcomata constitute a group of tumours resembling in structure normal embryonic or immature connective tissue. They include the fibro-nucleated, fibro-plastic, myeloid, and recurrent fibroid tumours, and many of the so-called cancers of the older pathologists. Normal em- bryonic tissue in the course of development may become fibrous tissue, cartilage, bone, &c. The sarcomata, how- ever, retain the structure of embryonic tissue throughout their life-history; and although in places, and indeed, in some instances in the greater part of the tumour, de- velopment may proceed, as in the normal growth of the body, to the formation of fibrous tissue, cartilage, or bone, yet the circumferential or growing parts of the tumour will always be found to consist of sarcoma elements. Hence the importance of examining the growing part lest a sarcoma which has undergone chondrification, ossifica- tion, &c.,be pronounced a cartilaginous or osseous tumour. The sarcomata present the most diverse characters, both as regards their structure and their clinical behaviour, but have the following in common:—1. The cells of which they are composed consist of masses of protoplasm without distinct cell-wall, and contain one or more nuclei. 2. Each cell is surrounded by a varying amount of intercellular substance which has no definite arrange- ment, and does not form alveolar spaces as in carcinoma. 3. The blood-vessels have very thin walls, and ramify among the cells, not in the stroma as in carcinoma; indeed, they are often mere spaces bounded by the cells themselves ; hence the frequency with which haemor- rhages occur in the substance of the growth. 4. Dissemi- nation usually takes place by the blood-vessels (not by