DISEASES OP REGIONS 518 it with a pair of dressing-forceps, and slowly twisting it round on its own axis. Care must be taken to fix tlie patient's head in order to avoid sudden movement on his part. However removed, the root of the polypus must be touched with a saturated solution of chromic acid or per chloride of iron till it is quite destroyed. During the time occupied in destroying the root, the ear must be syringed twice a day with warm water, and alcohol dropped into the meatus and retained there some minutes. (2.) Mastoid disease.—Not unfrequently inflammation of the tympanum spreads to the mastoid cells, especially to the large irregular cell {mastoid antrum) situated just behind and slightly above the external auditory meatus. The symptoms are deep-seated pain, tenderness on pressure, and when the periosteum is involved, redness and swell- ing; and the ear projects more or less unduly from the side of the head. In many cases, after a while, there is fluctuation, and on opening the abscess, the bone beneath is felt to be bare. Sometimes there is a fistulous opening communicating with the mastoid cells. If the abscess is not opened, the matter may burrow downwards beneath the sterno-mastoid, or backwards beneath the muscles attached to the occiput. In severe cases there may be signs of cerebral irritation. Sometimes the signs are very obscure, there being little indication of the mischief beyond deep-seated pain, tenderness on making firm pressure, and some fever. It is in such cases that the inflammation is apt to spread to the cranial cavity. Occasionally the inflammatory products ossify, and con- vert the mastoid cells into solid bone. Treatment.— In the early stages apply hot fomentations and leeches, and as soon as fluctuation can be detected, make a free incision into the swelling, and encourage the discharge from the tympanum by frequent syringing with warm water. In obscure cases, if the pain persists, and the temperature keeps above the normal, trephine the mastoid cells or open the cells and antrum by means of a mallet and chisel. There is little danger in trephining the mas- toid cells, if care be taken to avoid wounding the lateral sinus. (3.) Cabies and necrosis.—The parts of the temporal bone most frequently attacked are, the mastoid process, the posterior wall of the meatus, and the roof of the tym- panic cavity. It is generally easy to make a diagnosis,