394 mjUHIES OF HEGIOKS. Pharyngotomy, and CEsophagotomy, are tlie opera- tions of opening the lower part of the pharynx or upper part of the oesophagus for the purpose of removing a foreign body. As the oesophagus inclines to the left, the opera- tion by choice is done on that ^ide, unless the body be felt distinctly on the right side. Make an incision about four inches long, having its centre opposite the cricoid cartilage, parallel to the sterno-mastoid, over the inter- space between the great vessels and the larynx. Divide the platysma and deep fascia; draw the sterno-mastoid outwards, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid in- wards ; and divide the omo-hyoid if in the way. Gently draw the larynx and trachea across the middle line in order to separate them from the great vessels; and then open the pharynx or oesophagus, as the case may be, by cutting on the foreign body if felt, or on the point of a sound passed through the mouth and made to project in the wound. Avoid injuring the superior and inferior thyroid arteries and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The incision in the oesophagus should be united by sutures passed through the muscular coat only. The external wound should then be closed, drained and dressed antisepiically. The patient should be fed entirely by the rectum for some days after the operation or by a tube passed down the oesophagus and retained in situ. Opening the oesophagus in the posterior mediastinum has recently been proposed for the extraction of a foreign body in the thoracic portion of the tube. (See page 390.) INJURIES OF THE BACK. Sprains of the spine are exceedingly common, and may be caused by any violent twist or bend of the back. The pathology of these injuries is hardly known. They are said to depend upon a partial tearing or rupture of the spinal ligaments, muscles or fasciae, but opportunities for verifying this statement seldom occur. Sprains of the back may be complicated by concussion of the spinal cord, extravasation of blood in the subcutaneous tissue, or contusion or rupture of the kidney. They may, moreover, be followed by inflammation of the intervertebral joints and fibrous tissue about the spine; the inflammation may then at times spread to the membranes and cord, or be the starting-point of vertebral caries. Symptoms.—The