434 INJURIES OF REGIONS. lithotrite and removed whole. If it cannot be pushed into the bladder, it must be cut down upon and extracted through an incision in the middle line of the urethra. Foreign bodies in the bladdery if allowed to remain, become encrusted with phosphates, and give rise to symptoms of stone (see Stone in the Bladder). INJURIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Bruises, contusions, burns, scalds, and frost- bites of the upper extremity require no special remarks. Sprains of the joints of the upper extremity, especially of the wrist, are very common. Eest, the application of cold, and in the case of the thumb, wrist, or elbow, a wet bandage followed by friction with a stimulating liniment, is the usual treatment. A sprain, however slight, should never be neglected, as inflammation in or around the joint may ensue, leading to fibrous anky- losis, adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths, &c. See Sprains of Joints, p. 192. Sprains of the muscles causing tenderness, slight swelling, and pain on movement, are not infrequently met with after hard rowing or other excessive exercise. EuPTURE OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS, especially the pectoralis major and the long tendon of the biceps, are not uncommon accidents. The latter may occur during any sudden involuntary action, and may be known by sudden pain, loss of power, and a gap in the course of the long tendon, whilst the inner head, on putting the muscle into action, forms a prominent lump. Little or nothing can be done in the way of treatment. Wounds of all kinds are very common. Wounds of the palm only need special comment. Wounds of the palm are frequently attended with severe and troublesome haemorrhage from either the superficial or deep arch. When the wound is clean cut the bleeding vessel may be tied in the usual way; but when the wound is of a punctured character such an attempt would inflict severe injury on the tendons and nerves in the palm. A graduated compress in this case should be put on, the hand bandaged over an ordinary roller, pressure applied to the ulnar and radial arteries at the wrist, and the forearm flexed forcibly on the arm to control the flow of blood through the brachial artery.