312 DISEASES OP SPECIAL TISSUES. aneurysm, two fingers are introduced into it, and placed on tlie bleeding spot in the artery, wMcli may be known by the hot arterial blood issuing from it. An assistant in the meantime enlarges the wound, turns out the clots, and helps the Surgeon to tie the artery aboye and below the rupture-before the fingers are removed. This method is less dangerous than that practised by Syme, who made a free incision over the aneurysm, rapidly turned out the clots, and seized with forceps the bleeding point in the artery. 3. Where the aneurysm is of great size and involves the subclavian, Macewen's method may be em- ployed or the first part of the subclavian or the innomi- nate may be ligatured, or iron wire introduced, galvano- puncture or manipulation tried, or amputation at the shoulder-joint performed. Space does not permit of a discussion of the cases in which one or other of these methods is the more suitable. All, however, with the exception of Macewen's method, are desperate expedients. Aneurysms at the bend oe the elbow were formerly common when venesection was in vogue, and were then generally arterio-venous in character (see p. 210). Gluteal aneurysm is the term applied to aneurysm of the gluteal artery itself, the sciatic, or the pudic where it winds over the spine of the ischium. Aneurysms in this situation may be the result of a wound or other injury, or may occur spontaneously. They iare frequently attended with pain and interference with the movements of the hip-joint. The pulsation and bruit will generally serve to distinguish them, but there may be no pulsation, as where the aneurysm has burst, or blood has been effused into the tissues as the result of a wound of the artery; a tumour of bone, moreover, may also pulsate. Under such circumstances, exploration with a grooved needle will be necessary. Treatment.—When of traumatic origin, an incision should be made over the tumour, the clots turned out, and the bleeding vessel secured, the haemorrhage during the operation being controlled by pressure on the common iliac by Davy's lever or by the hand in the rectum. When spontaneous, the internal iliac may have to be tied if the aneurysm encroaches on that vessel within the pelvis—a point which may perhaps be determined by exploring with the hand in the rectum. Before, however, resorting to ligature of the internal iliac, Macewen's method or compression of the abdominal aorta or common iliac, and carefully applied direct pressure on the