373 nNTTRACEANIAL INFLAMMATION. on the other hand, the paralysis occurs immediately after the injury; it is more complete and extensive, and the whole of one side, at least, will probably be paralysed. The treatment should be directed to the prevention of inflammation in the way already described. If there is a wound, with protrusion of the brain, the contused and protruded portions and any fragments pressing upon or penetrating the brain substance should be removed, the wound cleansed with antiseptics, the scalp replaced, and its union by the first intention sought. In the case of a gunshot wound the bullet should be removed if it can easily be got at, otherwise it should be left in situ. Where there is no wound, but signs of local irritation or of compression of the cortical motor area from blood- extravasation, the indications are to trephine. The guide to the spot for perforation is the line of the fissure of Eolando on the side opposite to that of the localized spasm or paralysis. This line may be found in various ways. M. Lucas-Championniere employe the following method (see Fig. 101):—He first finds the bregma, t.e., the spot where the coronal joins the sagittal suture, by carrying a line directly over the vertex from one external auditory meatus to the other. The top of the Eolandic fissure is situated about 2 inches behind the bregma. The bottom of the fissure corresponds to a spot 2| inches behind the external angular process and about 1 inch above it. We have already seen that the cortical motor centres are grouped around the Eolandic fissure. If therefore there is general hemiplegia, the perforation should be made over the middle of the line ; if paralysis of the arm and leg, over the upper part of the line; if paralysis of the arm only, in front of the middle third of the line; if aphasia, below and a little in front of the line on the left side of the head; if there is paralysis of the leg alone, behind the upper third of the line ; if paralysis of the arm and face, in front of the lower third of the line; if paralysis of the arm and aphasia, or paralysis of the face and aphasia, below and in front of the line. iNTRACRAisriAL INFLAMMATION, though at times it may remain localized either to the membranes {^meningitis) or to the brain {encephalitis), more often, in whatever way it begins, spreads from the one to the other {meningo- encephalitis), Cause^-^Woxinds of the scalp; contusions or fractures