DISEASES OE REGIONS. 548 suddenness of its onset, and from the vomiting, megrim, &c., accompanying it has often been mistaken for a bilious attack. The steaminess of the cornea prevents as a rule any view being obtained of the fundus although the pupil is widely dilated. The optic disk when visible is found in first attacks not to be cupped, but there is marked pulsa- tion of the retinal arteries and engorgement of the veins. Such an attack may pass off after a few days, but is generally followed by others until the eye may pass into a permanent glaucomatous condition {absolute glaucoma) and vision be totally destroyed. Absolute glaucoma is ac- companied by great pain and increased tension, intra- ocular haemorrhages, opacity of the lens, ulceration and staphyloma of the cornea, and shrinking of the whole globe. Some cases of acute glaucoma may be accom- panied by severe intra-ocular hsemorrhage {hcemorrhagic glaucoma). 2. Subacute glaucoma is characterized by the symptoms of glaucoma as given above. There is generally a gradual progress, sometimes with exacerbations, and it may at any time give rise to acute glaucoma. 3. Chronic glaucoma may follow on an acute or sub- acute attack, but there is an insidious and progressive form usually attacking both eyes, in which all irritative signs are absent. Without pain and often with no apparent increase of tension, there is gradual reduction of the amplitude of accommodation, and diminished corneal sensibility, with cupping and progressive atrophy of the optic disks often passing on to absolute blindness. Pathology.—Grlaucoma is produced by any circumstance tending to upset the normal relation of the secretion and excretion of the intra-ocular fluids. These fluids, secreted by the ciliary processes, pass chiefly out at the angle between the iris and the cornea {iridic or filtration angle). This increased tension may be produced by hypersecretion of the ciliary processes, obstruction at the filtration angle, or by serosity of the fluids. The most frequent cause is obstruction of the filtration angle due to inflammatory products, or to mechanical means, as growth of the lens, or dilatation of the pupil especially by atropine, &c. Glaucoma occurs as a rule in persons over 40 years of age, is frequently hereditary, and is often associated with hypermetropia. It may be secondary to complete posterior synechia, perforating ulcers and wounds of the cornea, dislocation of the lens laterally and into