BUBNS AND SCALDS. 121 viscera, so common in the former stage, may run into inflammation ; and pleurisy, pneumonia, peritonitis, or meningitis may supervene and prove fatal. Perforating ulcer of the duodenum, which is generally situated near the head of the pancreas, may now occur, and is said to be most frequently met with about the tenth day. It would appear to be more rare, however, than has been generally supposed, since no case has occurred at St. Bartholomew's during the last seven years. It has been attributed to Brunner's glands taking upon themselves the function of the injured glands in the burnt skin, and to the irritation of the .vitiated products secreted in the bile and discharged into the duodenum at the bile papilla. '6rt> stage.—Biippuration and exhaustion.—During this stage, which sets in on the separation of the sloughs, there is still a danger of the patient succumbing to in- flammation of the viscera, especially the thoracic; or he may be worn out by hectic and exhaustion from long- continued suppuration. He is also exposed to the risks of secondary haemorrhage on the separation of the sloughs, and to blood-poisoning from the absorption of septic pro- ducts unless the greatest care is exercised to prevent the decomposition of the discharges. On cicatrization occur- ring, horrible deformity may ensue from the contraction of the newly-formed fibrous tissue in the scars. The Treatment must be both local and constitutional. Local treatment,—The clothes should be removed with the greatest care, so as not to tear off the cuticle; but undue exposure should be avoided. In burns of the first and second degree, the part should be protected from the air and changes of temperature by smearing it with carron oil or vaseline and wrapping it in cotton-wool, the blisters being pricked to relieve tension and to let out the serum. The cuticle, however, should not be removed, as it serves as the best protective. In burns of the third degree, the parts may also be protected by cotton-wool till the sloughs begin to separate. Decomposition of the dis- charges should then be prevented as much as possible by mild antiseptic dressings. Thus, the surface may be dusted with iodoform; or eucalyptus oil, boracic lotion, and the like may be applied. Some Surgeons put on a charcoal or even a linseed-meal poultice. Carbolic acid should not be used, as not only is it too irritating, but there is danger of it being absorbed when the burn is