GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES, 134 8. AxiUPRESSiJRE consists in securing the end of the bleeding artery by pressing it between an acupressure needle (which resembles a hare-lip pin) and the tissues, or between the needle and a wire twisted over the needle. This method is scarcely ever used now. 9. FoRCiPRESSiJRE consists in seizing the bleeding artery, and the surrounding tissues if the vessel is small, with Spencer Wells' pressure forceps, leaving them on a few minutes and then very gently withdrawing them. It is a means often used to control the haemorrhage during an operation, and will even permanently arrest it in the case of the smaller vessels, which are often found not to bleed when the forceps are removed. It is sometimes employed for arresting haemorrhage from a vessel which from its depth or other cause cannot be tied. In such a case the forceps are left on from twelve to twenty-four hours, and at the end of that time are very gently removed so as not to re-start the bleeding. (2.) EeCURRENT, REACTIONARY, OR INTERMEniARY HEMORRHAGE is that which may come on within the first twenty-four hours after a wound as the patient gets warm in bed, and the shock of the operation or injury has passed off. It may be regarded as a failure in the pro- cess of the temporary closure of the vessel. It should be noted that the term recurrent is by some authors applied to what is here termed secondary haemorrhage. Causes,— 1. Slipping of a ligature or displacement of a clot from a vessel consequent upon the wounded parts not being kept at rest. 2. Washing out of a clot trom a vessel which it has temporarily plugged, by the increased force of the circulation as the heart regains power on the passing off of the syncope or shock. It is not uncommon in large wounds to have some oozing of blood through the dressings; but this should not be considered as recurrent haemorrhage unless it occurs in unusual quan- tities, and only then calls for treatment. The soiled dressings having been covered with fresh layers of the antiseptic gauze and wool, the part should be firmly but gently bandaged and_ttien elevate d. This failing, the dressings must be removed, and the flaps in the case of an amputation separated, the clots washed away with cold or hot water containing an antiseptic, and any vessel found bleeding, tied. The wound should be then re-dressed and firm pressure applied.