VENOUS HiEMORRHAGE. 137 failing after a thorough trial of it has been made, the best plan, as a rule, is to cut down upon and tie both ends of the bleeding artery in the wound. Tying the main artery at a distance above the wound has.been advised, but is open to the objection that the secondary bleeding often comes from the distal end of the artery; and that aven when it comes from the proximal end, the ligature of the main vessel may not control it, since blood may be carried into the artery below the ligature by collateral branches (see Fig. 45, p. 208). Further, in the case of the lower extremity, there is also a danger of gangrene. The operation of tying at the seat of wound is no doubt difficult, as the parts are generally matted together or in a sloughy condition, and the coats of the artery so softened that a ligature will not hold; but by following the artery a little way upwards and downwards, a healthy portion may be found whereon to place the ligature. The steps of the operation are greatly facilitated by the use of Esmarch's bandage. When the haemorrhage comes from an artery deeply placed, as the external iliac or sub- clavian, pressure is probably our only resource. In the case of the iliac, an attempt might be made to secure it at the bleeding spot. In the only instance, however, in which I have seen it tried it was unsuctessful. Should haemorrhage recur after both ends of the artery have been tied at the seat of wound, amputation in the case of the lower extremity is probably the safest course. Yenous hemorrhage.—When a vein is cut com- pletely across, the arrest of haemorrhage is due chiefly to the form^ition of a cgagulu but^partjly. to the collapse of the vein. Treatment.—Unless a large vein is wounded in its continuity, no treatment beyond pres- sure is usually required. Should the main vein bleed after an amputation a ligature should be applied to it. See Treatment of luounded veins. Capillary HiEMORRHAGE is arrested by the formation of_cc)agaila in the capillaries and smaller arterioles. The coagiil§^iQp. is due in part to the^^e^osure of the blood to the air ; in part to the traumatic inflammation set up in the capillary-wall by its division; and in part to the diminished force of the circulation in the capillaries con- sequent upon the reflex contraction or even closure of the arterioles which follows the division of the tissaes. Treatment.—As the haemorrhage usually stops spontan- eously, nothing in the way of treatment is, as a rule,