539 after a few days, if the media are transparent enough, a yellowish, reflex, due, as a rule, to suppuration in the vitreous. The usual course is for the inflammation to affect the whole interior of the eye, and afterwards the extrinsic muscles and Tenon's capsule. The treatment is either immediate enucleation, or incisions into the eyeball to allow free vent to the pus. Meningitis has occasionally followed enucleation in these cases. 2. Plastic uveitis is characterized by a great tendency to deposition of lymph, and may be divided into Acute and Chronic. (a) Acute plastic uveitis [Sympathetic Inflammation or Sympathetic Ophthalmia) is set up in one eye by morbid changes usually the result of a wound of the other eye. The injured eye is called the exciting," and the other the "sympathizing eye." It occurs usually from six weeks to three months after injury. It is preceded as a rule by a condition known as " Sympathetic Irritation," characterized by lachrymation, photophobia, dimness of sight, oscillations of the pupil and frontal neuralgia. The symptoms are impaii'ed vision, circumcorneal zone, keratitis punctata, deep anterior chamber, iritis, papillo- retinitis, and opacities in the vitreous. These symptoms are followed by thickening and vascularization of the iris, occlusion of the pupil by lymph, shallow anterior chamber, diminished tension, shrinking of the vitreous, detach- ment of the retina, &c. The prognosis is very unfavour- able, as only in a few cases the changes stop short of actual loss of the eye for useful vision, and it must always be remembered that the sympathizing eye suffers as a rule more severely than the exciting. The nature of the disease is probably a microbic inflammation spreading .from the exciting eye by the optic nerves and chiasma to the sympathizing eye. The treatmerit consists in confinement to a dark room, goggles, atropine, leeches and mercury. If the exciting eye is quite blind it should be excised, but if it has useful vision it should be saved. (b) Chronic plastic uveitis occurs as a rule in strumous and syphilitic patients. The disease progresses like "Sympathetic Inflammation," but is more chronic; it usually affects both eyes at intervals, and often passes on to complete blindness. In young children plastic uveitis may produce a condition called pseudo-glioma,'^ which may be diagnosed as a rule from glioma by discoloration and adhesions of the iris, minus tension, &c. A less severe