852 DISEASES or REGIONS. traction being greater on tlie inner than on tlie outer side of tlie sole, an inward twist is given to tlie foot {equino- varus). At times the tendo Achillis is not snfficiently shortened to draw up the heel, but at the same time is so contracted as to prevent the foot being placed beyond a right angle with the leg. This condition is spoken of as right-angled contraction of the tendo Achillis or as red- angular talipes. 2. Talipes varus is the most complicated variety of club- foot, and is the most common of the congenital forms. By some the distortion here described as varus is called equino-varifs. I prefer, however, to apply the simple term varus to the form under consideration, and equino-varus to cases of equinus in which there is added a secondary twist- ing inwards of the foot. In varus (Fig. 327), the os calcis is drawn up by the tendo Achillis, tilting the astragalus partially out of the ankle-joint, and the bones in front of the transverse tarsal joint are drawn inwards and upwards by the tibialis anticus and posticus, so that the scaphoid is placed in- ternal to the astragalus instead of in front of it, whilst its tube- rosity is in close contact with the.internal.malleolus. The liga- ments on the inner side of the sole and between the tibia and astragalus are shortened, and are often the chief agents holding the bones in their deformed position. In severe cases, however, the astragalus is itself deformed, its head looking almost directly inwards instead of forwards and slightly inwards. Thus, in a well-marked case (Fig. 328 A and b), the heel appears drawn up, the anterior part of the foot inverted, the inner border turned upwards, the outer border downwards, so that the sole looks backwards and the dorsum forwards, the long axis of the foot being at the same time shortened and bent upon itself, the sole un- naturally concave, and the plantar fascia tense. In severe cases (Fig. 328 c), the inner border of the foot may be in contact with the leg, and when the foot has been walked upon the sole looks upwards as well as backwards. Fig. 327. — Congenital talipes varus. (St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital Museum.)