EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. 787 as when the abscess forms external to it, it may break into that canal. Urinary fistula are generally the result of urinary abscess in connection with stricture of the urethra. They may also be due to wounds of the urethra, made acciden- tally, or by surgical operation, or to ulceration following impaction of a calculus. They are commonly divided into three kinds :—1, The perineal; 2, the scrotal ; and 3, the penile.—The perineal may be single or multiple; the scrotal are nearly always multiple; and the penile single. In long-standing cases the fistulse may burrow among the tissues of the groin, nates and thighs, and may even open into the rectum. Treatment.—^When due to stricture, the fistulse will generally readily heal when the stricture is cured and a free natural passage is established for the escape of urine. Should they not do so—1. A perineal fistula when small may be induced to close by passing a soft catheter to prevent the contact of urine whenever the patient mictu- rates, or by inserting into the fistula a hot wire or a probe coated with silver nitrate. If these means fail, the edges of the fistula may be pared and brought together by sutures. When the parts are indurated and the stric- ture is of the cartilaginous kind, external urethrotomy and laying open of the fistulee should be practised. 2. Scrotal fistulce nearly always require freely laying open, and when secondary fistulse extend to the groin or buttock they should also be treated in this way. 3. Penile fistulce when large, and especially when the result of sloughing consequent upon the impaction of a calculus, usually require a plastic operation. Extravasation of urine is commonly, though not always, the result of stricture, and is then due either to the dilated urethra behind a stricture ulcerating and giving way, or to a lacunar abscess bursting into the urethra. In either case, the urine is forced by the contraction of the bladder into the surrounding cellular tissue. The urethra may give way (1) in front of the anterior layer, (2) between the two layers, and (3) behind the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. In the first and by far the most common situation, it is the bulbous portion of the urethra that gives way. Here the urine is prevented from passing—1, backwards into the pelvis by the anterior layer of the triangular ligament being attached to the rami of the pubes and ischium and sub-pubic ligament; 3 E 2