DISEASES OF BEGIONS. o36 ly. Diseases of the uveal tract. The uveal tract comprises tlie iris, ciliary body and choroid, and though disease may be limited to one part, there is always a tendency for it to spread through the whole tract. Iritis or inflammation of the iris may be acute, subacute or chronic. The usual symptoms of a case of acute or subacute iritis are—pain and tenderness along the ophthalmic division of the fifth, nerve, dimness of sight, lachrymation, injection of the episcleral vessels giving rise to a pink circumcorneal zone, and occasionally photophobia. The iris is dull, and discoloured, e.g, a blue iris becomes green, the pupil is sluggish, contracted, gene- rally irregular owing to adhesions to the anterior capsule of the lens [posterior synechice), and acts badly or not at all to atropine. In chronic iritis there may be no symp- toms except irregularity of pupil, dimness of vision, and at times pain. Iritis is especially likely to occur in patients suffering from syphilis, rheumatism, or gout; it may also have a traumatic origin, or be secondary to in- flammations of the cornea, sclerotic, or the other parts of the uveal tract. The iritis associated with syphilis is often symmetrical, and generally accompanied by great effusion of lymph in the neighbourhood of the pupil, but in the secondary stage of this disease this symptom may be absent. Iritis in rheumatic patients is usually very pain- ful, and apt to recur, at first only asymmetrically, but generally both eyes sufiter in repeated attacks. It is occa- sionally accompanied by fluid hypopyon. It is especially liable to attack those of the rheumatic diathesis if suffering from prolonged gonorrhoeal discharge. In gouty subjects there may be a very insidious form [quiet iritis). The local treatment is first directed to obtaining dilatation of the pupil by atropine or atropine and cocaine combined ; if there is much congestion of the conjunctival vessels and pain, it is well to apply one or two leeches or a small blister to the temporal region about one inch from the external canthus. The general treatment is that applicable to the diathesis of the patient, but a mild course of mercury is by some always prescribed in acute iritis. The chief traumatic affections of the iris are blood in the anterior chamber (hyphcema), mydriasis (due to paralysis of the sphincter pupillee), tremulous iris (gene-