INTUSSUSCEPTION. 655 of the intestine. In this condition it may remain, in chronic cases, for several weeks or months. Or the mucous membrane of the intussusceptum may become congested and swollen, rendering reduction difficult or impossible without rupture or other injury of the intes- tine. In the majority of cases, however, especially in infants, if the intussusception is not soon relieved, the blood-vessels of the involuted mesentery rapidly become constricted where the latter enters the sheath, causing acute obstruction to the circulation in the receding tube. As a consequence of this, the mucous membrane becomes intensely congested, and pours out the sanious discharge so diagnostic of the disease. In the meanwhile the contiguous peritoneal surfaces of the inner and middle tube become inflamed and glued together, rendering re- duction impossible. Grangrene of the intussusceptum now ensues, and the patient usually dies of collapse or peritonitis in a few days. In adults, however, and in children of six or eight years and upwards, the gangrenous IDortion may slough oft at the constricted part and be passed per anum, but in children under two years of age the disease, unless relieved by treatment, is almost invg^tiably fatal. Should recovery take place in this manner, the patient may subsequently succumb to stric- ture of the intestine, from contraction occurring at the spot where the intestine has united. The intussusception may measure only two or three inches in length, or it may involve the whole of the large intestine and protrude at the anus. It is attributed to worms, the dragging of a polypus, an elongated mesentery, irregular peristalsis, diarrhoea, and external violence. Its most common situation is at the ileo-c8ecal valve, then in the small intestine, and then in the colon. It is rare in adults, but common in children, especially in infants. 5. Steicture oe the intestine consequent upon DISEASE OF THE INTESTINAL WALL.—This Condition is I generally due to the growth of a carcinoma or other I tumour, more rarely to contractions following ulceration } or injury, or operation on the intestine. It is most fre- I quently met with in the large intestine, especially the j rectum and lower part of the colon, and is rare in the I small intestine. I 6. Contractions of the intestine consequent upon I disease beginning external to the intestinal WALL.—This condition may depend on chronic peritonitis^