DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 316 passed, and the artery divided between them. I question if this will not always be found the safer method : it is now the one always used by myself and by several of my colleagues at St. Bartholomew's. 11. Some form of aseptic ligature should be used, as silk, chromicized catgut, ox-aorta, or kangaroo-tail tendon, but the best material can hardly be said to have been determined. I have always used kangaroo-tail tendon myself, and have found it answer admirably. 12. The wound should be accurately united, drained if deep, and dressed antiseptically. Ligature oe special artekies.—The common caro- tid ARTERY may require tying for—1. Wound of the artery; 2, a punctured wound near the angle of the jaw or tonsil; 3, aneurysm of the upper part of the artery or of one of its branches ; 4, orbital, intracranial and cirsoid aneurysm; and 5, aneurysm at the root of the neck (distal ligature). The artery may be tied either above or below the omo-hyoid. When practicable it should be tied above, as it is here more superficial, and the risk of suppuration ex- tending beneath the deep fascia into the chest is avoided. The high operation, or ligature above the omo-hyoid. Make an incision three inches in length with its centre opposite the cricoid cartilage, along the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, i.e., in a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process (Fig. 242, i). Divide the skin, superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia. Draw the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid gently outwards, and the artery will be felt pulsating in the angle formed by the omo-hyoid with the sterno- mastoid. Open the sheath on its inner side, and pass the aneurysm-needle from without inwards to avoid injuring the vein which slightly overlaps the artery on its outer side, and keep its point close to the vessel lest the pneumo- gastric nerve be included in the ligature. The small descendens noni nerve runs superficial to the sheath, and if seen, should be avoided. The superior thyroid, lingual and facial veins cross the artery to open into the internal jugular vein. Should they impede the operation, divide them, having first applied two ligatures. The low opera- tion, or ligature below the omo-hyoid. Make an incision in the same line as for the high operation but lower in the neck. Draw the sterno-mastoid outwards and the sterno-hyoid and thyroid inwards and the artery will be