PUNCTTJEE OF THE BLADDER. 795 possibly avoided. A hot sponge applied to the pubes is 1 often successful. 6. Retention from paralysis or atony of the Madder, from abscess or tumour of the urethra or bladder, from impacted i calculus, and from ligature of the penis, is discussed under the heads of Paralysis of the Bladder, Impacted Cal- I cuius, &c. ! Puncture of the bladder above the pubes (Fig. 253, b).—Make a small incision through the skin imme- diately above the pubes, having first ascertained by percus- • sion that the bladder has risen well out of the pelvis; and thrust Cock's curved trocar and cannula downwards and backwards into the bladder. Withdraw the trocar, secure the cannula in situ and pass through it a soft catheter connected with a long rubber tube to carry away the urine. In a few days, when the parts are consolidated, the cannula should be changed. When the bladder is distended, a good inch rises above the pubes uncovered by peritoneum, but when contracted and hypertro- phied it may rise but little if at all. Under these latter circumstances the trocar and cannula must be passed close to the pubes for fear of wounding the peri- toneum. Aspiration is performed in a similar way, except that the aspirating needle or trocar is thrust in without any preliminary incision of the skin. If a small aspirating needle or cannula is used there is no danger of extravasa- tion, as on its withdrawal the puncture in the bladder is closed by the contraction of the muscular fibres; and even should a drop or two of urine escape no harm will ensue provided the urine is healthy. It is a most useful emer- gency operation, and, if necessary, may be repeated on several successive occasions. Puncture of the bladder through the rectum. —Place the patient in the lithotomy position. Pass the left forefinger into the rectum, and place its tip just beyond the back of the prostate. Take Cock's long curved trocar, and cannula, with the point of the trocar slightly with- drawn within the cannula. Introduce it through the anus, and guide it by the finger in the rectum to a spot immediately behind the prostate exactly in the middle line. Press the cannula firmly on the fluctuating trigone of the bladder, and plunge the trocar boldly into the bladder, in a direction upwards and forwards towards the umbilicus. Withdraw the trocar and secure