279 DISEASES OF TENDONS. Atrophy and degeneration of muscle merely require ,mention. The chief degenerations are—1, simple atrophy; 2, fatty degeneration ; 3, granular degeneration; and, 4, waxy or vitreous degeneration. In simple atrophy the muscles merely waste, but do not lose their striation, and are capable of being restored to their normal condition; whereas the fibres of a degenerated muscle are altered in their anatomical structure, and their function is entirely and permanently lost. Simple atrophy may occur from many causes. It is generally seen in surgical practice as the result of long disuse of a limb, as in chronic joint disease, but it is then usually associated with some amount of degenerative chaiige. Fatty, granular, and waxy degeneration, though sometimes met with singly, are more often found combined in the same muscle. They occur in acute febrile diseases, scrivener's palsy, progressive muscular atrophy, infantile paralysis, pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, &c. Hypertrophy of muscle calls for no special remark. A familiar example of hypertrophy of the voluntary muscles is seen in the limbs of athletes ; of hypertrophy of the involuntary muscles, in the muscular coat of the bladder which has become thickened in its efforts to over- come the obstruction of a stricture. Ossification of muscle may occur as the result of chronic irritation. As examples may be mentioned the rider^s hone, or ossification of the adductors, occasionally met with in persons who ride a great deal; the drill hone, or ossification of the deltoid in soldiers as the result of shouldering arms; and the ossification of the rectus and other muscles in Charcot's disease of the joints. Tumours.—Although primary tumours are not common in muscle, nearly all varieties except carcinoma have at times been met with. Sarcoma occurs, perhaps, the most frequently. diseases of tendons. Simple teno-synovitis or inflammation of the sheath of a tendon may be acute, subacute, or chronic. It is most frequently met with in the subacute form and in the extensors of the thumb and wrist as the result of over-exertion—a hard day's rowing, and the like. In this situation, it produces an elongated swelling over the extensors of the thumb, and is attended with pain on