629 LARYNGO-TRACHEOTOMY. the latter has been employed. Further the vertical incision has this advantage, that it can be prolonged downwards through the cricoid cartilage if more room is required. Laryngo-TRACHEOTOMY consists in prolonging the in- cision in the trachea through the cricoid cartilage. It is sometimes done when there is not room between the cricoid cartilage and the isthmus for the performance of 1 tracjieotomy; also for the purpose of removing a f^rowth ' from the larynx. Although no harm may follow the division of the cricoid, it should be avoided, if possible, as j the integrity of the larynx is thereby interfered with, and 1 serious impairment of the vocal apparatus has occasionally been the result. I Comparison of the operations of tracheotomy and laryn- I gotomy. — Laryngotomy is a much easier operation and j can be done with greater rapidity than tracheotomy. For this reason, it is jpar excellence the one to be undertaken on an emergency, as, for instance, threatened suffocation i from the impaction of a portion of food at the entrance of i the larynx. In children tracheotomy, or, in the case of an emergency, laryngo-tracheotomy, should always be under- taken, as the crico-thyroid space in them is too small to admit a tube. In adults, when either laryngotomy or tracheotomy can be performed deliberately, the opinions of Surgeons are somewhat at variance as to which opera- tion ought to be undertaken for the varying conditions calling for an opening into the air-passages below the glottis. For my own part I always do tracheotomy (except in cases of emergency), as this operation does not interfere with the integrity of the larynx; whereas after laryngotomy the voice has at times been lost or im- paired owing to contraction of the crico-thyroid mem- brane, or to inflammation of the crico-thyroid joint or crico-arytenoid joint. Further there is often difficulty with the tube. This opinion, however, is not held by all. Thus, according, to Mr. Erichsen, laryngotomy should be performed in^ 1. Acute oedematous laryngitis. 2. Membraneous laryngitis in adults. 3. Chronic syphilitic and ulcerative laryngitis. 4. Tumours and foreign bodies obstructing the larynx. 5. Scalds and injuries of the I larynx by acids. 6. Accidents during operations about the head and face in which blood accumulates in the larynx; and 7. Laryngeal spasm and paralysis from com- pression of the recurrent nerve. Tracheotomy^ on the other