305 DAIN'GERS OF LIGATURE. slightly raised on a pillow, and placed on its outer side, with the knee a little flexed, care being taken that no pressure is made on the heel, malleoli, or other points of bone, for fear of local sloughing. If the weather is at all cold, hot bottles should be applied, near, but not in contact with, the limb. The patient must be kept in bed till the aneurysm is thoroughly consolidated, and the operation wound has healed. The dangers oe ligature.—These are—(a) secondary haemorrhage; (&) gangrene; (c) recurrent pulsation; {d) suppuration and sloughing of the sac; (e) phlebitis; (/) great enlargement of the aneurysm without pulsation; and (g) the other dangers that may attend any open wound. (a.) Secondary hcemorrhage is liable to occur at any period before the wound is soundly healed. The causes, symptoms, and treatment, are discussed under " Haemor- rhage," see p. 135. (&.) Gangrene is more common in the leg than in the arm; indeed, in the latter situation it is yery rare. It may be due to—l, failure of establishment of the col- lateral circulation, when it usually supervenes within a few days; or 2, yenous obstruction, the result of plug- ging of the yein in consequence either of injury at the time of operation, or of pressure on the vein by a swollen and suppurating sac. When due to the latter conditions, it may be delayed for some weeks. When extensive and spreading rapidly, amputation at the seat of ligature must be performed. The surgeon, however, should not be in too much haste to amputate, as the gangrene may involve only a toe or two, or part of the foot, and spread no further. When, therefore, it is limited in extent, and spreading slowly, a line of demarcation should be waited for before amputation is performed. When the sac is yery large, and the gangrene appears to be due to pressure on the yein, the sac may at times be opened with advantage, the clots turned out, and any bleeding vessels secured. (c.) Recurrent "pulsation^ when slight, is a good sign, as it shows that the collateral circulation is becoming established, and, consequently, that the danger of gan- grene is lessened, if not passed. If, however, instead of ceasing, as it usually does in a few days, it becomes more pronounced, the limb should be raised, and carefully bandaged from the foot upwards, and pressure applied to the artery leading to the sac. If this does not suffice, and the pulsation returns as strongly as ever, and the TV. X