139 SHOCK. splanclinics a vaso-motor paralysis of the walls of the abdominal veins, whereby they become engorged, and the nerve-centres and heart in consequence imperfectly sup- plied with blood; hence, partly owing to deficient nervous stimulus, and partly to lack of sufficient arterial blood to the heart's substance and ganglia, cardiac paralysis ensues. The symptoms vary considerably in severity. In extreme cases the patient lies in a semi-conscious state. His pulse is feeble, frequent, and fluttering, perhaps hardly per- ceptible at the wrist. The surface, especially that^ of the extremities, is cold, the temperature falling at times to 97°, or even 96°; the face is pale; the lips are blanched; the skin is moist or covered with a clammy sweat; the eye is half closed, and lustreless or glazed; and the respiration is shallow, and may be barely perceptible. There is marked muscular relaxation; there may be yielding of the sphincters, and at times nausea and vomiting. The symptoms may gradually increase, and the patient die of syncope or asthenia; or he may gradually rally and pass into the condition known as reaction. The pulse will then become full and increased in frequency, the temperature slightly raised, the face flushed, the skin hot and dry, the urine scanty and high coloured, the tongue furred, and the bowels confined. Many of the feverish symptoms, however, that were formerly regarded as the result of excessive reaction, are now known to be due to septic poisoning. Treatment.—In slight cases, beyond covering the patient up warmly in bed with blankets, and applying hot bottles to the feet, nothing is required, except when there is much pain a subcutaneous injection of one-sixth to*one quarter of a grain of morphia. In severe cases, small and repeated doses of brandy should be given, carefully watching its effect upon the pulse so as not to subsequently induce excessive reaction ; whilst hot bottles should not only be applied to the feet, but placed on either side of the thorax, and friction used to the hands and surface generally. If there has been severe haemorrhage, fluid nourishment in small and oft-repeated doses should be administered with the stimulant. In extreme cases, where the patient is unable to swallow, brandy should be administered by the rectum or ether injected subcutane- ously ; whilst, should the breathing cease, artiticial re- spiration ought to be employed and persevere^ in fpr sopi9