INJUEIES OF REGIOIS^S. 404 external wound, there will be escape of air intimately mixed with blood, and accompanied by a peculiar hissing noise {hcematopnoea); or if there is no external wound, emphysema in the region of the fractured ;rib. When the pleura alone is injured, a very rare accident, the signs are similar ; but no blood is coughed up, and though air may escape from the external wound if there be one, it is not churned into a fine froth with the blood, as it does not come from the lung, but is simply drawn in and out of the pleura through the wound in the parietes during inspiration and expiration. ComjjUcations.—UdemothoreiiLf pneumothorax, emphysema, haemorrhage, and later pleurisy and pneumonia (see Complications of Injuries of Chest). Treatment,—Absolute rest, ice to suck, opium to subdue pain, closure of the wound if small, or insertion of drain-tube if large, and antiseptic dressings, with such treatment as is appropriate for the complications that may be present (see below). If the pleura alone is injured, the external wound should be closed, unless any com- plication exists, and dressed antiseptically. 2. Injuries op the heart and pericardium.—Co?!- tusions, tcouTids, and rupture of the pericardium may at times be produced by a severe crush of the chest-walls ; but are more often due to the penetration of a fragment of a broken rib, or to a stab or gunshot. In the last two instances the heart is generally also involved. Signs.— Severe shock, haemorrhage, the position and direction of the wound, and subsequently symptoms of pericarditis. The prognosis is always very serious, death occurring either from the effused blood impeding the heart's action, or from pericarditis. The treatment consists in absolute rest, the local application of cold, and if inflammation threatens, of leeches. Should the heart's action become seriously impeded by effused blood, serum, or pus, aspiration or free incision and drainage may be required. When there is an external wound it should be dressed antiseptically. Wounds of the heart, especially when they penetrate one of its cavities and particularly an auricle, are generally instantaneously fatal from shock or haemorrhage. Ee- markable exceptions however occur, and patients have been known to linger for a few hours or a few days, or even to recover. Signs.—When not at once fatal, a wound of the heart is attended with great collapse, syncope, a fluttering pulse, and dyspnoea, and later with