781 INTERNAL URETHROTOMY. strument has passed into the bladder and not into a false passage. The knife D, covered by the sheath E, is then placed inside the slot, and the stem of the sheathed knife is pushed down to the stricture. The knife is next protruded to half an inch, and then withdrawn in its sheath, which is pushed forward to see if the stricture is completely divided. If it be not, the process is repeated. Teevan divides the roof of the urethra to avoid the bulb, and the consequent danger of haemorrhage from that structure. As soon as the canal is free from one end to the other he passes a full-sized silver catheter to prove that the calibre of the urethra has been restored, and completely empties the bladder. He advises that a Fig. 302.—Thompson's modification of Civiale's urethrotome. catheter should not be left in, and no instrument passed for four days. 2. Internal division of the stricture from hehind for- wards,—(a.) Sir Henry Thompson uses a modification of Civiale's urethrotome (Fig. 302). He first dilates the stricture to the size of No. 4 or 5 bougie; then passes the bulb of the urethrotome, which contains the guarded knife, about a third of an inch beyond the stricture; protrudes the knife by a suitable arrangement in the handle, and draws it firmly towards the meatus for about an inch and a half, dividing the stricture along the floor of the urethra, and a little of the healthy mucous mem- brane at each end of it. He then passes a No. 14 or 16 bougie, and if this is felt to be held at any point, re- introduces the urethrotome, and divides what remains of the stricture. A No. 12 gum-elastic catheter is then tied in for twenty-four to forty-eight hours, {h.) Dr. Otis uses what he calls a dilating urethrotome (Fig. 303). It is introduced beyond the stricture, the screw at the handle is turned, dilating the instrument up to a milli- metre or two beyond the normal calibre of the stricture in order to make the latter completely salient. Then the blade is drawn through the stricture dividing it from behind forwards. Otis claims that when the stricture has been completely divided, re-contraction does nOt