808 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Symptoms and diagnosis.—There may be merely a sense of weight and fulness in the scrotum, or dragging or even severe pain, worse after the day's work but relieved by recumbency. The symptoms, however, are often more mental than physical, the patient fearing impotence or sterility, and sometimes becoming hypochondriacal in consequence. The varicose veins, which may sometimes be seen through the skin of the scrotum, form a soft, irregular, opaque, knotted, pyriform mass, in which there is a distinct expansile thrill or impulse on cough. The swelling is confined to the scrotum, and, although it may be reduced on the patient lying down, it does not go back with a gurgle or slip like a hernia, and gradually returns when the patient rises, notwithstanding that the finger is placed over the external abdominal ring. The testicle, though perhaps, as a rule, a little smaller than natural, is seldom much atrophied. ThQtreatmentmsijhQ either palliative or radical. The palliative treatment consists in cold sponging, the use of shower-baths, healthy exercise, regulation of the bowels, and the administration when indicated of fer- ruginous tonics ; whilst the mental anxiety of the patient should be relieved by the assurance that atrophy or im- potence need not be feared. Locally, a suspensory bandage should be worn, or the veins braced up by drawing the lower part of the scrotum through a Wormald'^s ring. The radical treatment should only be undertaken (1) when the varicocele is large or causes much pain; (2) when it acts as a bar to entering the public services; or (3) when it appears to be inducing atrophy of the testicle. Whether it should or should not be undertaken for the cure of mental distress, must be left to the judg- ment of the Surgeon in each individual case. The operations for the radical cure, which have for their object the obliteration of the enlarged veins, are many. Here only is described the method by subcutaneous ligature and division. Separate the vas, which can always be felt as a rounded cord, from the veins; pass with a nsevus needle a thread of catgut or kangaroo-tail tendon between the veins and the vas, and then back again between the veins and the skin, and tie the veins, allowing the knot to slip through the puncture in the skin. Bepeat the procedure three quarters of an inch above, and then divide the veins between the ligatures with a