DISEASES OF REGIONS. 558 included in a V-shaped incision, tlie wound being after- wards united by hare-lip pins, or if superficial, freely shaved off. The glands in the neck, if enlarged and not too extensively diseased, should be extirpated at the same time. When the bone is involved, a portion of the jaw may be removed if the whole disease can be got away. Hare-lip is a congenital malformation in which the upper lip is vertically cleft on one or both sides of the median line. It is so named from its fancied resemblance to the lip of the hare. It is produced by the failure of union of the fronto-nasal process which forms the median portion of the lip with the superior maxillary processes which form the lateral portions. The fissure will, there- fore, be opposite the suture between the superior max- illary and premaxillary bones, the situation at which the union between the above-mentioned processes nor- mally occurs; and it will be single or double, according as the failure of union occurs on one or both sides. It may exist as a mere notch on the free margin of the lip, but it more frequently extends deeply through the sub- stance of the lip into the nostril above. Single hare- lip is far more common than double hare-lip, and occurs much more often on the left than on the right side. The two margins of the cleft are often unequal in length, the lip on one side of the cleft being on a lower level than on the other. In double hare-lip the central portion is generally shorter than natural, and along with the pre- maxillary bone and the incisor teeth frequently proj ects forwards, the two clefts being often of unequal extent. Cleft palate is a frequent comiomitant of hare-lip, and malformations, such as club-foot, spina bifida, &c.,. are not uncommon in other parts of the body at the same time. Treatment,—The edges of the cleft should be pared, and the raw surfaces brought into contact, and there held by hare-lip pins or sutures, so that primary union may occur. The operation is best done between the third and fifth months of infancy, as very young infants bear haemor- rhage badly, and later, the troubles of teething begin. To ensure success the child should be brought into the best possible state of health by careful nursing and feed- ing, and any constitutional taint, as syphilis, corrected by appropriate remedies. There are various methods of operating. Here only