136 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. the hsemorrhagic diathesis, diabetes, Bright's disease, septicBemia, pyaemia, traumatic fever, and plethora. Symptoms.—There may be a sudden and even fatal gush of blood, or previous to this, the discharges of the wound may have been blood-stained. In some cases, the bleeding may stop ,for a time, but again and even again recur till the patient finally sinks from exhaus- tion. Sometimes the haemorrhage may cease spon- taneously after one or more bleedings, and the patient recover. Treatment.—^A. From an artery in a stump after opera- tion.—The treatment will dilfer according to (1) the date at which the haemorrhage occurs; (2) whether it is from the main artery; (3) the condition of the stump ; and (4) the situation of the amputation. Thus, when the haemor- rhage occurs a few days after the operation, and is little more than a mere oozing, elevation and pressure by careful bandaging will often stop it. If it should not do so, or the bleeding is more severe and appears to come from the main artery, a tourniquet applied to the artery above may succeed. This failing, or the flaps appearing distended with blood, the wound should be opened up, the clots removed, and the bleeding vessels secured. At a later period, when the healing process has considerably progressed, should pressure fail, it becomes a question whether the healing flaps should be torn apart and the artery secured at its bleeding point, whether the main artery should be tied above the wound, or whether re- amputation should be performed. If the main artery can be easily secured just above the operation wound, this is to my mind the proper procedure, especially if the wound is in a sloughy condition, in which case the ligature would probably not hold at the seat of bleeding. This is also the right course to pursue if the amputation has been performed at the shoulder or hip-joint; but if in the lower third of the leg or in the fore-arm, then an attempt should be made to tie at the wound, or if this is impossible from the sloughy condition of the stump, re- amputation is probably the safest treatment. B. From an artery in its contimcity.—Pressure should first be applied at the seat of wound, and in the case of one of the extremities for a considerable distance over the course of the artery, both above and below the wound, and the whole limb bandaged from the foot or hand, as the case may be, upwards. This treatn;ent