260 DtSEASIlS smctAt TiSStJES* described under inflammation. All that need be repeated here is, that the synovial membrane, ligaments, and in places the surrounding tissues, become infiltrated with small cells, and ultimately converted into a layer of vascular granulation-tissue; that the cartilage-cells pro- liferate whilst the matrix undergoes softening and lique- faction; and that the articular ends of the bones are eroded and destroyed in the way described under Caries. In places in the granulation-tissue are found non-vascular areas, consisting of tubercle nodules, in which the tubercle bacillus is found. In the early stages under appropriate treatment the inflammation may subside, and the joint resume its normal condition. After the cartilages, however, have been destroyed, such a favour- able ending is of course impossible, and all that can be hoped for is, that the layers of granulations covering the denuded bones may unite and ankylosis ensue. The dangers to be apjDrehended are that the tubercle should become disseminated, lighting up phthisis, meningitis, &c. ; or that long-continued suppuration should induce hectic, exhaustion, or lardaceous disease. Signs.—The disease is generally chronic, often lasting for years. It usually begins very insidiously: there may be some slight stiffness of the joint, attributed perhaps to a trivial injury, or in the case of the lower extremity a slight limp in walking. The joint may be held in a slightly-bent position, and the range of flexion and ex- tension may be somewhat restricted. Occasionally the disease is ushered in by an acute attack of synovitis. At first there may be little or no swelling, or the swelling- may take the form of the synovial membrane ; but as the disease advances, it becomes general and uniform, so that the points of bone about the joint become obscured. The wasting and atrophy of the tissues of the limb, however, give the articular ends of the bone the appearance of being considerably enlarged. In the meantime, there is no redness of the skin; hence the name tumor albus, or ivJiite swelling. Pain at first may be absent, or only present on movement of the limb, but gradually increases till the patient, in the case of the lower extremity, is prevented by it from walking. There is usually but little heat. In this condition the joint may remain for many months, and under appropriate treatment the disease may completely subside. If neglected, however, the articular surfaces of the bones, as the ligaments become softened, are.