88 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. myxoma)^ or by sarcomatous elements {adeno-sarcoma), or by a combination of two or more of the above tissues {adeno^fibro-sarcoma^ adeno-myxo-sarcoma); whilst at times the acini or ducts become dilated into cysts, in which proliferating growths [intracystic groivths) may project. The tumour is then spoken of as an adeno-cystoma, cysto- sarcoma, &c., according to the character of the intertubular and interacinous connective tissue. The microscopical ap- pearance of an adenoma is shown in Fig. 15. The tubular adenomata resemble the tubular glands, the epithelium of this variety differing from that of the acinous in being more or less columnar. They are most common m the mucous membrane of the intestine, where they form papillary or polypoid growths. Both varieties are distinguished from carcinoma, in that the epithelium does not penetrate the basement membrane and invade the connective tissue. Usual seats.—The acinous occur in the mamma (where they are generally of the adeno-fibromatous form), the lip, the prostate, the thyroid, parotid, and lachrymal glands, and the sebaceous glands of the skin. The tubular occur in the intestine, especially the rectum. Secondary changes. — Cystic degeneration consequent upon mucoid softening, and fatty degeneration of the epithelium. Signs, diagnosis, and treatment. See Diseases of the Breast, Eectum, &c. (b) The malignant, Carcinomata, or Oaitcers, are malignant growths consisting of epithelial-like cells contained in an alveolar stroma. The individual cells are not surrounded by any intercellular substance as in the sarcomata, and the vessels run in the stroma, and not among the cells. They are derived from pre-existing epithelium, and are hence spoken of as tumours of epiblastic or hypoblastic origin. The epithelium is believed to proliferate and break through the wall of an acinus or duct, or the basement membrane of the skin or mucous membrane, and invade the surrounding or underlying connective tissue, where it is supposed to enter the lymphatic spaces, and thence, sooner or later, pass into the lymphatic vessels, and so finally become disseminated. The cells in carcinoma, though varying in their character, retain the type of the