MALIGNAOT OR CANCEROITS STRICTURIJ. 723; subsequently the sui^rounding structures and organs, gluing -them, as it ?^ere, to the rectum, and finally con- verting the whole into a cancerous mass. The lymphatic glands in the pelvis, and later the inguinal glands and others more removed, become affected, and the carcinoma may finally be disseminated, secondary growths being more especially met'with in the liver. The symptoms are often very insidious. At first there may be merely some uneasiness, hardly amounting to pain, about the anus; then more or less pain on defsecation is noticed; the faeces may be streaked with mucus or with blood ; and a slimy discharge may be present. Later the motions become small, fiattened,. pipe-like or scybalous. The patient strains at stool, and feels as if his bowel had not been emptied; then there is constipation alternating with diarrhoea, and an offensive sanious discharge. Emacia- tion and cachexia now come on, with more local pain, and the patient dies of exhaustion, peritonitis, or during an attack of acute obstruction. The diagnosis can only be arrived at by a local ex- amination. The anus generally appears healthy, though probably patulous, and a healthy strip of mucous mem- brane generally exists between the anus and the growth. When the growth can be felt, its indurated base, and when ulceration has occurred, the everted edges of the ulcer, and the sanious and foul discharge, render the diagnosis generally easy. When beyond the reach of the finger it may at times be brought down by asking the patient to strain. The fungating form may be mistaken for a villous growth; the annular, for a simple fibrous stricture. A villous growth maybe distinguished by its velvety and supple feel, by its not ulcerating and breaking down, by the absence of induration, by the discharge being thin and mucoid, the blood bright and small in quantity, and the rectum not fixed, and by the duration of the disease. A fibrous stricture may be known by its longer duration, by being less indurated than the cancerous form, by the bowel not being fixed, and when due to syphilis by the absence of a healthy strip of mucous membrane between the growth and the anus. Treatment.—If the disease is seen sufficiently early and before it has involved the surrounding parts, if it is not situated too high up the rectum, and if the general con- dition of the patient is otherwise favourable, excision of the growth with the lower end of the rectum should 3 A 2