178 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. the fragments are in good apposition, and are kept at rest, little or no enslieathing callus is formed ; but when there is much displacement, or rest is impossible as in fractured ribs, or difficult to obtain as in a fractured clavicle, a considerable amount is produced. In children, even when the parts are kept at rest and in good apposi- tion, the formation of much ensheathing callus is the rule. Treatment,—Here only the indications for treatment will be pointed out. The particular methods will be given under Special Fractures. A. Treatment of simple fracture,—The indications are— (1) to reduce the fracture, that is, to place the fragments in apposition, so as to restore as far as possible the bone to its normal shape; (2) to keep it in this position by properly applied apparatus till firm union has occurred ; (3) to promote the restoration of the normal functions of the part; and (4) to attend in the meanwhile to the general health and comfort of the patient. 1. The reductio7i, or as it is popularly called the setting of the fracture should not be undertaken till the appa- ratus into which the limb is to be permanently placed is ready; but the fragments should be temporarily fixed so as to prevent further injury, such as a sharp fragment being forced through the skin. Thus, in the case of the lower extremity, the injured limb may be bound to the sound one, or secured by a handkerchief to an impromptu splint such as an umbrella or walking- stick; or if the patient is not seen till he is already in bed, the limb may be placed between sand-bags. As a general rule, the fracture should be reduced as soon as possible; but where there is much swelling, the part may be wrapped in a pillow or secured by sand-bags till the swelling has subsided. "When the fracture is transverse, the fragments will, as a rule, be but slightly displaced, and little as regards reduction will be required. In other instances, as when the line of fracture is oblique, considerable trouble in bringing the fragments into apposition may be experienced. The chief obstacles to be overcome are (1) the contraction of the muscles, which are thrown into action by the irritation of the fragments ; and (2) the impaction of the fragments, or the interposition of muscle or tendon between them. The splint or other apparatus being in readiness, extension in the case of fracture of a limb should be made on the lower fragment, preferably, as a rule, through the intervention of the joint below.