DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 278 on each. side. Mr. Morrant Baker secures the articular surfaces in contact by means of steel needles fitted with handles. The needles are passed through the skin and obliquely through the bones on each side of the joint, the handles removed, and the needles left in situ till union has occurred. Others substitute bone pegs for the needles, passing the pegs along the holes made by the needles. The pegs are then cut o:ff short and left in permanently. Tenotomy of the hamstring tendons may be required to bring the bones into apposition if there has been much displacement. The limb should then be placed on a Gant's or other form of excision-splint; but the kind of splint is not very material if the bones are well secured in good position by the pegs in the way described above. After convalescence the knee should be kept for at least a year in a well-fitting leather splint, as there is a great tendency for the bone to yield and the limb to become flexed. The ankle.—Excision of the ankle is too rarely required in practice to call for a description. The results following it, moreover, are so unsatisfactory, that in disease of the ankle-joint either Syme's operation, or amputation through the lower third of the leg, is nearly always done in preference. Arthrectomy however where the bones are not extensively diseased may be tried before resorting to the above procedures. DISEASES OF MUSCLES. Inelammation and abscess.—Inflammation of muscle, or myositis, may be due to a sprain, partial rupture, or other slight injury, or to rheumatism or pyaemia, or it may spread to the muscle from the surrounding tissues. Except in the pysemic form it generally ends in resolution. Signs.—Pain, swelling, rigidity, and more or less fever, followed by signs of an abscess should suppuration ensue. Treatment.—Eest, anodyne liniments to assuage pain, and a free incision if pus forms. GuMMATA may be met with in muscle in the tertiary stages of syphilis. They are said to be especially common in the sterno-mastoid of infants, the subjects of congenital syphilis; but it is probable that many of the localized swellings in the sterno-mastoid of infants are due to partial rupture during birth.