DISEASES OE SEECIAL TISSUES. 340 leuksemic condition, the patient rapidly emaciates, be- comes ansemic, the spleen enlarges, diarrhoea or dropsy may set in, and death usually results from exhaustion, or, it may be, from the pressure of the enlarged glands upon the trachea, bronchi, or some vital organ. Treat- ment.—Where one or two glands alone are enlarged they may be removed; but where large numbers are affected, no surgical treatment is of any avail, although if a gland is pressing upon the trachea, &c., it may be removed, or tracheotomy performed. In the non-leuksemic forms, arsenic, in increasing doses, may be given internally, with iron and cod-liver oil, or chloride of calcium in ten grain doses may be tried. Por the treatment of the disease when associated with leukaemia, see a work on Medicine. Lympho-saecoma is the term sometimes applied to primary sarcoma occurring in a lymphatic gland. (See bar coma J p. 81.) DISEASES OE NEBYES. Neuritis, or inflammation of nerves, occurs in the sheath or connective tissue binding the nerve-fibres together, and is therefore a perineuritis, or interstitial neuritis, and not an inflammation of the nerve-substance. Causes.—Injury, cold, rheumatism, syphilis, tubercle, lead-poisoning, gout, diphtheria, alcoholism, and fevers. Pathology. — In the acuter forms, the nerve appears slightly red and swollen, and later infiltrated with inflammatory exudation. In the more chronic cases the sheath and interstitial connective tissue appear thickened, whilst the nerve-fibres are more or less atrophied. When following an amputation, partial division with laceration, or gunshot injury, the inflammation generally spreads up the nerve from the seat of injury [ascending neuritis). Symptoms.—There may be tenderness on pressure, or con- tinuous pain with exacerbations, in the course of a nerve and its peripheral branches, tingling and numbness in the part supplied by it, and occasionally spasm of the muscles. The pain is generally worse at night, and increased on movement. At times the nerve may be felt to be swollen, and there may be loss of sensation or muscular paralysis in the part it supplies. The acute cases are attended with slight fever. In the traumatic form, pressure at the seat of injury, or over the bulbous