DISEASES OF REGIOIS'S. 652 increase of tension on straining, and the gap between the laminae when this can be felt, will nsually serve to diag- nose it from other congenital tumours. Treatment.—As there are no means of accurately deter- mining that the spinal cord is not in the sac, it is not safe to attempt,excision or ligature, although these operations have at times been attended with success. Eepeated tap- pings are very fatal. The best treatment, except when the spina bifida is very small or is apparently undergoing a spontaneous cure when it should be left alone, is to inject the sac with Dr. Morton's iodo-glycerine fluid. This method when successful causes the tumour to shrink, and most closely follows the process of nature when a sponta- neous cure occurs. The injection is best performed when the child is two months old; but it may be done earlier if the sac threatens to burst. "The best results maybe expected when there is no hydrocephalus or paralysis, and the sac is covered by healthy skin." It is contra-indicated when there is " advanced marasmus, great and increasing hydrocephalus, and intercurrent disease." The child should be placed on its side, and the puncture made obliquely through healthy skin on one side of the base of the tumour, and not through the thin and imperfectly formed skin which nearly always covers the sac in the middle line, " the object being to avoid wounding the expanded spinal cord, and the subsequent leakage of the cerebro-spinal fluid." About a drachm of the iodo- glycerine fluid (iodine, grs. x.; iodide of potassium, grs. XXX. ; glycerine, Ji.) should be injected, and the injection repeated in a fortnight if the first trial is not successful. The fluid contained in the sac should not be drawn off before the injection. The advantage of Morton's fluid over tincture of iodine alone is that owing to the glycerine it contains it becomes uniformly diffused over the sac walls. The injection of iodo-glycerine is not unattended with danger; therefore when the sac is small and its walls are thick, and it is not increasing in size, beyond protecting it with a metal or leather shield, no further treatment should be attempted.