DISEASES OF REGIONS. syphilitic remedies, should serve to distinguish them from squamous or other forms of carcinoma. Treatment,— Large doses of iodide of potassium, combined with quinine if the constitution is at all broken, and the local application of a cleansing gargle, as chlorate of potash, will rapidly cause them to heal. The scars left by these ulcers sometimes, though rarely, degenerate into epithe- lioma. Should any induration therefore appear in them, their free removal with the knife should at once be undertaken. Lupoid ulceration of the tongue is very rare. I have only seen one case during an experience of twenty years at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. This was under the care of my colleague, Mr. Butlin. The case occurred in a young girl with very extensive lupus about the nose, lips, and mouth. Scraping with a Yolkmann's spoon was the treatment adopted. Epitheliomatous ulceration is due to the breaking down of squamous carcinoma. It is described under ulceration instead of amongst new growths, as in consequence- of the irritation from the teeth, food, and the movements of the tongue, epithelioma in this situation very rapidly ulcerates, even if it does not begin as an ulcer: hence it is from other ulcers rather than from new growths that it has to be distinguished. It is much more common in men than in women, and seldom occurs under the age of forty. Often it is due to the irritation of a carious or sharp tooth, and then begins as a dental ulcer; or it may arise in the scar left by a syphilitic ulcer, or follow upon the condition of the tongue known as chronic superficial glossitis. Occasionally it begins as a wart or pimple in patients in whom no cause for it can be assigned. It is most common on the side of the tongue opposite the molar or bicuspid teeth. The ulcer is irregular, with raised, sinuous, hard and everted edges, and an uneven, excavated, or warty base; while the tissues around are infiltrated and indurated. Its growth is generally rapid, and attended with neuralgic pain and copious salivation. If allowed to take its course it spreads backwards to the pillars of the fauces, downwards to the- floor of the mouth, and inwards to the opposite half of the tongue; whilst the submaxillary lymphatic glands, and later the lymphatic glands in the neck become enlarged, and the parts about the angle of the jaw infiltrated and matted together by the disease. Secondary ulcers then form