95 CYSTS. has occurred by antiseptics, and supporting the strength by nourishing diet and stimulants. The radical treatment aims at removing the cancer by operation, in the hope that it may not return or manifest itself in other parts. If removed early, there is a good chance of the squamoils- celled carcinoma not doing so, and in some forms of the columnar and spheroidal-celled the same fortunate result has occasionally occurred. As a rule, however, the issue is not so favourable, and after an immunity, varying in duration according to the variety, situation, and size of the tumour, the length of time it has existed, and the implication or non-implication of the lymphatic glands, the disease returns in the scar, in the lymphatic glands, or in internal organs. But though the patient may not be cured by an operation, he may be greatly relieved by the removal of the local trouble, and die with less distress from the implication of internal organs. Should removal be determined on, it is best done by the knife; but in certain parts the scissors or ecraseur may be more applicable. At times caustics may be employed. Eecently it has been urged that electrolysis is capable of so acting on the cancer cells as to prevent further growth and produce shrinking; but there is at present no trust- worthy evidence that it has any such action. The various methods of removing carcinomata will be described more in detail under Diseases of Eegions. CYSTS. A cyst is a closed-^ac containing fluid or pultaceous matter. Cysts may be divided into :— L Cysts formed hy distension of naturally existing cavities or spaces. II. Cysts of new formation, III. Cysts of congenital origin. I. Cysts formed hy distension of naturally existing cavities or spaces. These are subdivided into :—A. Exudation cysts; B. Eetention cysts; and 0. Extravasation cysts. A. ExuDATioiS' CYSTS are formed by exudation or by excessive secretion into cavities which have no excretory duct. Under this head are included Bursse, Ganglia,