H DISEASES OF THE IJVULA, PALATE, ETC. 575 pliers. Division of the lower jaw in the middle line and separation of the two halves is a useful procedure when the floor of the mouth is implicated and the disease extends far back. The jaw should be united at the con- clusion of the operation by silver wire or by ivory pegs. When the glands in the neck are much affected, and the disease extends far back, Kocher removes the tongue by an incision extending from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, and thence to the jaw, extirpating the glands and tying the lingual artery in the course of the operation. During the removal of the tongue chloroform should be administered by a tube passed through the nose (Junker's method), or if tracheotomy is performed and the trachea plugged, through the cannula. The after-treatment consists in dusting the stump with iodoform, painting it with Whitehead's iodoform varnish, packing the mouth with iodoform gauze, or frequently syringing it with Condy's fluid or other antiseptic lotion. Some Surgeons recommend feeding with a tube for the first few days, or by the rectum. It is well to leave a ligature through the stump of the tongue, so that should recurrent hsemorrhage occur, the stump may be drawn forward and the bleeding vessel more easily secured. DISEASES OE THE UVULA, PALATE, EAUCES, AND TONSILS. UVULITIS, or inflammation of the uvula, is a frequent accompaniment of pharyngeal catarrh. The uvula appears red, swollen and oedematous, and often considerably elongated. If the inflammation does not yield to the remedies employed for the catarrh, scarification should be practised. Elonoation oe the uvula may depend upon chronic catarrh of the pharynx, or upon conditions similar to those leading to chronic enlargement of the tonsils. The elongated uvula may come into contact with the back of the tongue or even with the mucous membrane of the larynx, and in either case is productive of a troublesome tickling cough. If astringents fail, the end of the uvula may be amputated. Cleft palate is a congenital defect due to an arrest of development of the processes which normally grow inwards from the superior maxillary and palate bones,