466 INJURIES OP BEGIONS. femur and length of the leg, is brought to bear upon the joint in falls upon the knee and foot with the limb extended and abducted. Dislocation, therefore, as might be inferred, is more common in the young and strong; fracture of the neck of the femur in the old and feeble. Cause.—Dislocation of the hip, whatever forpa it may take, generally occurs when the limb is abducted. In this position the head of the bone presses upon the inner and lower part of the capsule, its weakest part, and if any sudden or great force is now applied to the other end of the lever, the head of the bone may be forced through the capsule at this spot into the obturator foramen. Here it may remain, or if at the time of the accident the limb is flexed and rotated inwards as well as abducted, it may be carried round the outer margin of the acetabulum on to the dorsum ilii; or if the limb is extended and rotated outwards as well as abducted, round the inner margin on to the pubes. In rare instances, it would appear to occur during forced adduction of the limb, the head of the bone being then driven directly backwards on to the dorsum ilii. In such a case, however, the rim of the acetabulum is generally, though not always, splintered off at the same time. The Y, or ilio-femoral ligament ^Isij^ so important a part in dislocation of the hip that its attachments should be briefly considered before studying the varieties of this dislocation. It consists of a thickening of the front of the capsular ligament, and is attached above to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and then divides into two branches like the letter Y inverted. The outer branch is inserted into the upper part of the anterior trochanteric ridge; the inner branch into the lower part of that ridge. It is exceedingly strong, and will bear a breaking strain of from 250 to 750 pounds. Both branches limit extension; the outer branch rotation outwards as well. The whole ligament therefore is tense during extension and outwards rotation of the limb; relaxed during flexion and rotation inwards. Yahieties.—Dislocations of the hip are divided by Bigelow into the regular, in which one or both branches of the Y ligament are intact, and the irregular, in which both branches are ruptured. In the former the signs are constant, as the untorn branch of the Y ligament compels the bone to take a certain definite position. In the irregular the signs vary, as both branches of the Y being