DISEASES OE REGIOIS'S. 822 TuMOUES.—Fibrous tumours are occasionally met witli in the labium. They are usually of the soft variety, and often contain myxomatous elements. They are frequently allowed to attain a large size. Eemoval is the only treatment. Fatty tumours and ncevi are also met with; sarcomata but rarely. Epithelioma is not uncommon, and may generally be distinguished from venereal warts and syphilitic, tuber- cular or lupoid ulceration by the surrounding indura- tion, the sinuous and everted edges of the ulcer, the history of the case, the age of the patient, and the early enlargement of the inguinal glands. Early and wide removal of the growth, together with any inguinal glands that may be felt enlarged, holds out the only prospect of success; but when the growth has attained any size, a rapid recurrence is but too frequent. Condylomata and yeneheal waets are very con- mon in this situation. They require no special descrip- tion, and should be treated as described under Venereal Diseases in the Male, Pruritus may depend on various causes. These should be sought, and, if possible, removed, the irritation being allayed in the meantime by such remedies as are men- tioned under Pruritus ani (p. 710). Elephantiasis of the labium is rare. Like the similar condition of the scrotum, it may attain a large size. It may be removed by the knife, or better, as the haemorrhage is free, by the galvano-cautery. Noma is an infective inflammation of the vulva, attended by phagedsenic ulceration, and is not infre- quently met with in the ill-fed, weakly children of the poor, especially after the exanthemata. Like cancrum oris, it probably depends upon the presence of a specific micro-organism. It begins as a dusky-red, indurated patch on one labium, with much swelling and oedema, and spreads rapidly, the central parts often becoming gangrenous. It is attended with severe constitutional dis- turbance, which soon assumes the typhoid type, and death from exhaustion or septicaemia frequently ensues. The treatment should be energetic. The affected part should be completely destroyed by fuming nitric acid or the gal- vano-cautery, and an antiseptic dressing applied ; whilst fluid nourishment, stimulants, and iron should be freely given, and opium cautiously administered in doses suit- able to the age of the child. In milder cases the ap-