101 be slightly swelled, a little hotter than natural, and tender on pressure, but quite devoid of pain. The redness, swel- ling and heat, however, may be so slight as to be almost imperceptible, or indeed may be said in some instances- not to occur. If an attempt were now made to draw the edges apart they would be found adherent to each other, and a few days later firmly united. All trace of redness and swelling about the edges will by this time have dis- appeared, a red streak only remaining to mark the line of the wound. This streak grows paler and paler, till ulti- mately a thin white line, which in course of time may become hardly perceptible, alone indicates the site of the injury. The above-mentioned process, which should be attended by little or no constitutional disturbance, is known as healing by the first intention, and is the one which, other things being equal, is always aimed at by the surgeon in the treatment of wounds. Should, how- ever, the wound not admit of its surfaces being placed wholly in contact, or should it be improperly drained and not kept aseptic, the inflammatory redness and swelling of the edges, instead of subsiding and disappearing in a few days, will increase and extend for some distance around ; the parts then become tense, there may be throb- bing pain, union fails, and suppuration is set up. In the meantime the patient may have a chill or even a distinct rigor; the temperature rises; the pulse is increased in frequency; the tongue becomes coated, the skin hot and dry, the urine scanty and high coloured, and the bowels confined; he complains of headache and loss of appetite, and there may be restlessness and want of sleep and per- haps slight delirium (septic traumatic fever). If now a free exit is established for the pus, and further septic changes are prevented, the constitutional disturbance subsides, and the surface of the wound becomes covered with granulations. The granulations gradually fill up the wound, and when the level of the skin or mucous membrane is reached, epithelium slowly spreads from the edges of the wound over the granulations till they are completely covered in. A red scar is thus left at the seat of the former wound, and though this in the process of time assumes a white colour, and becomes smaller from the contraction of the fibrous tissue into which the granu- lations are at length converted, it is of a permanent character. The above method of repair is known as healing by the second intention, or by granulation.