INJUEIES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 200 and the direction'in wliicli it appeared to run, will lielp us to determine whether the synovial membrane has been entered. The escape of a glairy fluid like white of egg— the synovial secretion—will make the diagnosis certain. If in doubt, the case should be treated as if the joint had been opened, but on no account should the wound be probed for the purpose of settling the point. Should inflammation ensue the signs will be the same as those of acute arthritis (see Diseases of Joints). The treatment will depend on the size and character of the wound, the joint affected, the nature of the compli- cations, and the age and constitution of the patient. The chief indications are to prevent inflammation and its attendant consequences, or if the injury is of a very severe character, to endeavour to save the patient's life by the sacrifice of his limb. Thus, if the wound is small and uncompli(5ated, an attempt should be made to convert it into a subcutaneous wound by sealing it with coUodionized lint, or better by placing over it an antiseptic dressing, after having first thoroughly cleansed the skin and rendered it aseptic. One or more silver or chromic gut sutures may first be inserted if the wound is too large to be closed in this way. The limb should be then placed on a splint at perfect rest, and cold applied by means of an ice-bag or by Leiter's tubes. Should inflammation follow, half a dozen leeches should be placed over the joint, and warm applications be substituted for the cold; whilst, should the local and constitutional disturbance increase and the joint become distended, aspiration should be practised to relieve tension, opium given to soothe the pain, and the treatment persevered in. If, however, pus is withdrawn by the aspirator, the joint should be laid freely open, drained, dressed antiseptically and placed in the position in which, should ankylosis ensue, it will subsequently be of most use. If, notwithstanding free incisions, the sup- puration goes on, continuous irrigation with some weak antiseptic fluid may be tried, or the whole limb kept continuously in a hot bath, the patient if necessary, as in the case of the knee, being himself immersed. Should signs of saprsemia or exhaustion from hectic set in, amputation must be performed. Larger wounds of joints, especially when lacerated, should be thoroughly cleansed with antiseptic lotions, well drained, and dressed antiseptically. A counter- opening at a dependent spot may in some cases be advan-