45 and so on. (2) To prevent gangrene, when threatened, from actually occurring by maintaining the warmth of the part, and endeavouring to relieve the embarrassed circulation by elevating the limb, and by gentle friction when there is venous congestion; and (3) When gangrene has actually occurred, to check it spreading; to promote the separation of the dead from the living part, or remove it by amputation; to control as far as possible the for- mation of the products of putrefaction by keeping the part dry, and by the free use of antiseptics; to support the patient's strength; to counteract the deleterious effects on the constitution from the absorption of the septic poison; and to soothe pain by opium. Varieties of gangrene.—We have just seen that gan- grene is generally divided into the moist and dry according to the condition of the gangrenous part. Although these may be looked upon as more or less accidental conditions, depending upon the amount of fluid in the tissues at the time that gangrene supervenes, they are convenient for the purpose of classihcation, and are thus used here. As examples of moist gangrene may be mentioned— (1) Inflammatory gangrene, (2) Traumatic gangrene, (3) Hospital gangrene, (4) Phagedsena, (5) Cancrum oris and Noma, (6) Carbuncle, (7) Bed-sores, (8) Diabetic gangrene. As examples of the dry—(1) Senile gangrene, (2) Gangrene from embolism or ligature of a main artery, (3) Gangrene from frost-bite, and (4) Eaynaud's disease. Thus it will be seen that there may be made almost as many varieties of gangrene as there are causes producing it. Here only a brief account of a few of the typical varieties can be given; others, as Hospital gangrene, Phagedsena, Cancrum oris, &c., are described in the sections on Septic processes in wounds, Diseases of the Cheeks, Skin, &c. Traumatic gangrene may be divided into the local and the spreading. Local traumatic gangrene is of common occurrence in surgical hospital practice. It may be the result of a severe injury, such as the crushing of a limb, whereby the tissues are killed outright or their vitality is so lowered that the blood extravasated from the wounded vessels is sufficient in addition to the lowering of their vitality to kill them. Again, it may be due to the rupture of a main artery or vein without any lesion of the skin. The symjotoms in these cases are as follows:—The limb is