INJURIES or REGIONS. 482 sloughing occurs, Pirogoff's or Syme's operation may have to be performed. Dislocation of the separate bones of the tarsus, OF the metatarsal bones, and of the phalanges of the toes are too rare to require special description. Fractures of the loiuer Extremity, Fractures of the femur may be divided into frac- tures of—I. the upper end; II. the shaft; and III. the loiuer end, I. Fractures of the upper end of the femur may be divided into—1, intracapsular fracture of the neck; 2, extracapsular fracture of the neck; 3, fracture of the great trochanter; and, 4, separation of the epiphysis of the head. 1. Intracapsular fracture occurs most frequently in the old, and more commonly in women than in men. Cause,—The atrophy and fatty degeneration of the bone and the diminished obliquity of the neck which is said frequently though not invariably to attend old age, are the chief predisposing causes. Professor Humphry main- tains, however, that there is no diminution of obliquity as age advances. Slight indirect violence, such as slipping off the curbstone, catching the toes in the carpet, &c., is the common exciting cause. State of the parts,—The line of fracture may be situated at any part of the neck within the capsule, and may be transverse or oblique ; the usual situation, however, is just external to the head, and the direction transverse. The fragments may be impacted or non-impacted, but impaction is the exception. In the impacted form the lower fragment is nearly always driven into the up;^er; when, however, the fragments are very jagged, mutual interlocking may occur. The periosteum covering the neck—the cervical reflection as it is sometimes called— may be partially or completely torn, so that all connection between the head and the rest of the bone is severed. Upon the extent of its rupture will in part depend the amount of displacement of the fragments, and the kind of union that will occur. In the non-impacted form the lower fragment with the rest of the femur is drawn slightly upwards by the muscles inserted into the tro- chanters, and at the same time generally rotated out-