INjrRIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 202 approximated by placing the limb in such a position as will relax the muscle, and then united by aseptic sutures. When the wound is deep or parallel to the fibres a drain- age tube must be inserted to prevent the retention of the discharge by the bulging of the muscle. Union takes place by fibrous tissue. EuPTURE OF MUSCLE may occur from a sudden and violent spasmodic action, or during vomiting, tetanus, or delirium. As examples may be mentioned rupture of the sterno-mastoid of the child in a difiicult labour, the rectus abdominis in parturition, the biceps in raising weights, the supinator longus and gastrocnemius in lawn-tennis, the quadriceps extensor at football, and the adductors of the thigh in riding. A sensation of tearing is often felt at the. moment of rupture, followed by pain and, if the rupture is complete, by loss of function. The rupture is indicated by a gap, above and below which is felt a hard swelling formed by the ends of the retracted muscle; or blood is extravasated between the ruptured ends occasioning a haematoma. The treatment consists in approximating the divided ends as much as possible by position and by suitable bandages and splints, and in applying ice and evaporating lotions to control the blood-extravasation and to prevent inflammation. If a blood-tumour forms it should not be opened, unless suppuration occurs. Wounds of tendons may be divided into the sub- cutaneous and the open. The former are discussed under Tenotomy. When a tendon is divided in an open wound, its cut ends should be approximated by placing the parts on a splint in such a position that the muscle is as much as possible relaxed, and the divided ends then united by aseptic sutures. In long-standing cases an attempt may also be made to unite the cut tendon if the patient's general state of health is favourable, and there is no evidence of extensive destruction of the tendon or of its adhesion to the neighbouring structures. Dislocation of a tendon from its sheath or groove without fracture or other injury occasionally occurs from a sudden twist or strain. It is indicated by pain and partial or complete loss of function of the affected muscle, swelling and ecchymosis ; whilst on examination, the dis- placed tendon may sometimes be felt in its abnormal situation. The injury is most common about the ankle, and in the fore-arm, back and neck. The treatment con- sists in replacing the tendon by manipulation, breaking