28 GEi^EHAL tATfiOLOGY OF StJRGtCAL DISEASllS. by the infiltration of nrine, faeces, &c.; and wlien a spon- taneous opening would produce deformity. Hilton''s method, as it is called, of opening an abscess, is very useful when the abscess is situated deeply and amongst important structures, as at the root of the neck or in the axilla. It consists in making an' incision through the skin and fascia, and then working gently in the direction of the pus with a director. As soon as pus presents, a pair of dressing forceps is slid along the grooye of the director into the abscess cavity, the director removed, and the blades of the forceps separated so as to stretch the opening and make a free exit for the pus. The comjplications of acvte abscess are : 1. Hsemorrhage from the involvement of a large vessel. 2. The implication of some important part, as the peritoneal cavity, the in- terior of a joint, &c. 3. Degeneration into a sinus or fistula. 4. Blood-poisoning (saprcEmia, pycemia). A chronic abscess differs from an acute in that it is formed slowly, is unattended by the ordinary signs of inflammation, and does not depend upon the presence of the pyogenic micrococci. The contents, moreover, are usually thin and curdy, not thick and creamy like the pus from an acute abscess, and before the abscess is opened are said never to contain pyogenic micrococci. In some situations, however, as in the chronic abscess in the sub- cutaneous tissue so familiar to the surgeon, the contents may differ very little to the naked eye from ordinary pus, and when the result of tubercular disease may contain the tubercle bacillus. A chronic abscess is generally formed in connection with carious bone, joint disease, a caseating lymphatic gland, or tubercular deposit. At times no cause can be discovered. When due to spinal caries a chronic abscess has a tendency to burrow in the tissues, especially in the long axis of the body; and its walls often become condensed and thickened, and lined with a layer of smooth granulations, which give it a velvety and mucous membrane-like appearance, or they may become coated with a thick layer of caseating tuber- culous matter. The symptoms are very various, and differ according as the abscess is found in connection with carious bone, a diseased spine, &c., and will be again referred to under the head of suppuration in bone, psoas abscess, &c. Here it may be stated generally that the chief signs are a fluctuating swelling, often unattended with any sign of inflammation, and the presence of some