INJURIES OF REGIONS. 402 Signs,—Severe stabbing pain is felt over the seat of fracture, and is increased on taking a deep breath, or on cougbing. On drawing tbe finger along tbe rib, some irregularity may be detected. Crepitus is usually felt on placing tbe band flat over tbe fracture wbile tbe patient breatbes deeply, or it may be beard on listening witb tbe stetboscope. Empbysema, i.e., sl crackling sensation, sometbing like rubbing tbe bair between tbe fingers, may at times be felt on touching tbe part. It is nearly always due to a wound of tbe lung, tbe air being drawn into tbe pleura tbrougb tbe visceral layer during inspiration, and forced tbrougb tbe wound in tbe parietal layer into tbe subcutaneous tissue during expiration. Treatment.—In an ordinary case tbe injured side should be strapped witb adhesive plaster, so as to control the respiration on that side and thus place tbe fractured rib as much as possible at rest. A broad bandage in addition applied round the chest often gives relief. When several ribs are broken a shield of gutta-percha may be moulded to tbe chest-walls and strapped on. Union occurs by ensheatbing callus in three or four weeks. Fractijre oe the sternum is rare. It may be ac- companied by fracture of the ribs or costal cartilages, separation of the ribs from their cartilages, and some- times by fracture of the spine. Causes.—Direct violence; indirect violence in consequence of a forcible bend of tbe body, either backwards or forwards; very rarely, muscular action, as during parturition. State of the parts.—The line of fracture generally runs through tbe gladiolus, and may be transverse, oblique, or longitudinal, the lower fragment usually projecting in front of tbe upper; but at times the gladiolus is separated from the manubrium, a condition sometimes spoken of as dislocation of the sternum. The chief signs are pain, increased on deep inspiration and coughing, irregularity and crepitus at the seat of fracture, and emphysema if the lung is wounded. The fracture may be complicated by injury of any of tbe thoracic viscera, or by haemorrhage or suppuration in the anterior mediastinum. Treatment. —Eest on tbe back, and the application of a bandage, if it can be borne, round the chest. Wounds of the chest-walls may be divided into the penetrating and non-penetrating. The non-penetrating kre of no serious consequence, and may be treated like wounds in other situations. The penetrating are those