SINUS AND FISTULA. 31 diarrhoea and deposits of urates in the urine. The face is pale and pinched, the cheek flushed, the eye bright, the pupil dilated, the tongue red and dry at the edges, and the pulse rapid, small, and weak. The appetite gra- dually fails, the patient becomes weaker and weaker, and dies exhausted of diarrhoea, lardaceous disease, &c. Treatment.—The cause of the suppuration should be re- moved, or if this is impossible, the absorption of septic products should be as far as is practicable controlled by establishing a free drain to the suppurating cavity, and by preventing by the use of antiseptics the putrefac- tion of the discharges. At the same time the system must be supported by nourishing diet and stimulants, the sweating combated by dilute sulphuric acid or atro- pine, and the diarrhoea by opium, catechu, or other astringents. Lardaceous disease is another of the complications that may follow prolonged suppuration consequent upon long-standing disease of the bones or joints. As the disease, however, perhaps falls more often under the notice of the physician than of the surgeon, the student, for a description of it, is referred to a work on Medicine. SINUS AND FISTULA. When an abscess opens spontaneously, or is opened artificially, we have seen that the cavity usually fills up with granulations. Under some circumstances, however, as when an abscess is connected with dead bone, or con- tains a foreign body, or is formed in connection with a mucous canal or secreting gland, or its walls after opening are prevented from remaining in contact by muscular action, the abscess does not close, but degenerates into a suppurating track called a sinus or fistula. Though the terms sinus and fistula are often used synonymously, the former is generally applied to such a track when 'it is only open at one end, the latter when it is open at both ends. ^ Although, perhaps, a sinus or a fistula more often owes its origin to the non-closure of an abscess, and is hence described here, it may also be the result of a wound, of ulceration, of sloughing, or of a congenital defect'. Special forms of fistulse, as fistula in ano, recto-vesical, salivary fistula, &c., will receive special notice under diseases of organs. Here generally it may be said that a