VAUICOSE VEINS. 333 whilst at times the pressure of the vein causes thinning of the skin, and this, with the wall of the vein, may give way, and haemorrhage result. When the valves have been destroyed, the haemorrhage may be very severe, and even terminate in death, as the blood sometimes flows back- wards from the heart through the proximal end as well as through the distal end of the vein. The symptoms usually complained of are fatigue and a sense of fulness of the limb after exercise or long standing, and perhaps cramp, coldness of the feet, swelling and oedema of the ankle, and numbness of the leg. Sometimes there is deep-seated pain. The tortuous vein or veins meandering up the leg is a characteristic sign which cannot be mistaken. When the smaller radicals are affected bluish clusters of minute veins are visi- ble here and there, especially about the ankle and knee. The treatment may be palliative or radical. Palliative treatment con- sists locally in supporting the di- lated vein by an elastic stocking or by a Martin's or an ordinary bandage, and reducing the hours of standing where possible. The bowels at the same time should be regulated, and the general health improved by tonics, iron, &c. Radical treatment should only be undertaken under exceptional cir- cumstances, as 1, when a vein appears likely to burst; 2, when there is a knotted mass of large veins in one or more situations, giving rise to much pain and inconveni- ence ; 3, when an intractable ulcer is present; and 4, when the varicosity is chiefly confined to a single vein. Many methods of operating have been proposed. The object aimed at in all is to obliterate the vein, either, 1,. by exciting adhesive inflammation as by acupressure, coagulating injections, ligature, or caustics; or 2, by excising a portion of the vein itself. Acupressure consists in passing a needle beneath the vein in several situations, and compressing the vein between the needle and a piece of bougie placed over the vein by means of a figure-of-8 Fig, 93. — Varicose Veins. (From Bry- ant's Surgery.)