WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 199 decomposition of the extravasated blood and serous secretion in the synovial pouches, septic or infective inflammation is very liable to be set up, and rapidly run on to suppuration and disorganization of the joint. The peculiar absorptive power of the synovial membrane, moreover, favours the entrance of the chemical products of putrefaction into the system and the consequent danger of septic poisoning, to which, or to such infective processes as septicsemia or pysemia, the patient may suc- cumb. ^Further, should he survive these earlier dangers of blood-poisoning, he is still liable to fall a victim to hectic, or to exhaustion or lardaceous disease conse- quent upon the prptonged drain on the system attending the suppurative inflammation in the synovial membrane, the articular ends of the bones, and the surrounding soft parts. Medium-sized wounds are the most dahgerous, as in such air cannot be prevented from entering, and drainage cannot always be eftectually secured. Punctured wounds, when made with a clean instrument and in an oblique direction, may heal under appropriate treatment without any inflammatory or other trouble. Should septic or infective poisons, however, gain admission at the time of puncture, or subsequently through neglect of the wound, or should the joint not be kept properly at rest, a punctured wound may be followed by the most intense inflammation of the synovial membrane, and total dis- organization of the joint, with its attendaSnt dangers of blood-poisoning. Extensive and lacerated wounds of joints, when not sufiiciently severe to call for amputation or excision, are not necessarily a source of extreme anxiety, as they usually permit of effectual drainage, and under the use of antiseptics may heal up by granulations without giving rise to any serious constitutional dis- turbance. In such cases, however, bony ankylosis will generally ensue, though in some instances the cartilages may escape destruction, and a fairly moveable and useful joint may be obtained. Signs,—When the joint is laid freely open the nature of the injury is obvious, and any displacement or splintering of the bones can be ascertained by examination with the finger. "When the wound is of a punctured character and the incision in the skin is some distance from the joint, the signs are not always so apparent. In such cases an account of the depth to which the instrument penetrated.