STRABlSMtiS AKB OCtlLAR PARALYSIS. 555 divided. The eyes should be bandaged for about twelve I hours. The method is the same for the external rectus, ! but it must be remembered that the tendon is situated a little further back. Ocular Paralyses.—Complete Paralysis of the Third Nerve is characterized by complete ptosis; external stra- bismus ; inability to move the eye directly up, down or in; crossed diplopia; moderate mydriasis and inactivity of the pupil to all the reflexes ; and paralysis of accom- modation. Any one of the muscles supplied by the third nerve may be separately paralysed, also the superior oblique (fourth nerve) and the external rectus (sixth nerve). Paralysis of the external rectus gives rise to internal strabismus, inability to move the eye outwards, and homonymous diplopia. It is the most common of the ocular palsies, probably from the long course of the sixth nerve. All the external ocular muscles may be paralysed at the same time {ophthalmoplegia externa). The intra-ocular muscles are the pupillary [sphincter pupilloi) and the ciliary. The pupillary muscle may be affected by paralysis of the third or short ciliary nerves, producing medium mydriasis, and by paralysis of the cer- vical sypipathetic or long ciliary nerves, producing partial miosis. The ciliary muscle may be paralysed {cycloplegia) by affections of the third or short ciliary nerves, usually in conjunction with paralysis of the pupillary muscle. It may be paralysed alone as in diphtheria. In certain diseases, especially locomotor ataxia, the pupil acts to accommodation but not to light [Argyll-Rohertson or spinal pupil). The treatment of ocular paralysis is chiefly constitu- tional. Many are of syphilitic origin and require mercury or iodide of potassium, but faradisation of the affected muscle may also be employed. In mydriasis and cyclo- plegia, the use of eserine is indicated. Nystagmus {involuntary oscillations of the eyeball) is generally binocular, and the movements of the eyes are usually horizontal or rotatory. It occurs generally in early life, and is then due to defect of sight from corneal ulcer, &c., sometimes in adult life, in cases of dissemi- nated scleritis, &c., and in miners, in whom it is probably due to their position at work.