ANATOMY OF HERKIA. 677 and congenital malformations, such as an elongated con- dition of the mesentery, a patency of the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis or canal of Nuck, and congenital defects of the abdominal parietes. 2. Acquired elonga- tion or downward displacement of the attachment of the mesentery. 3. A relaxed condition of the abdominal muscles, such as is induced by pregnancy, and by rapid emaciation in persons previously stout. 4. The rapid forma- tion of fat in the omentum or mesentery. 5. Any injury or operation that has weakened the abdominal walls. 6. Occupations involving severe muscular exertion; and 7. The male sex, inasmuch as men are more subject to the exciting causes. The exciting causes are such as produce a diminution in the size of the abdominal cavity by the contraction of the muscles forming its walls and the con- sequent compression of the contained viscera. They may be divided into those that act suddenly, and those that act slowly. Amongst the former may be mentioned sudden and violent exertions, straining at stool, lifting heavy weights, &c. Amongst the latter, continual strain- ing, as from stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, phimosis, or a narrow meatus, constant coughing occa- sioned by chronic bronchitis and emphysema, &c. Anatomy of hernia.—As the viscus is protruded through the abdominal or pelvic parietes, whether at one of the so-called rings or elsewhere, it generally forces that portion of the parietal peritoneum, which lies over the aperture, before it in the form of a pouch. When it escapes at the internal inguinal ring, however, instead of thus protruding the peritoneum in front of it, it may pass into the tubular prolongation of peritoneum which naturally descends in front of the testicle in the foetus, and which from some cause has remained unobliterated. The pouch of peritoneum in which the protruded viscus is thus enclosed is called the sac. In the former case it is spoken of as an acquired, in the latter as a congenital sac. In some forms of csecal hernia the sac may be incomplete, i.e., the viscus may be only covered by peritoneum in front, and in contact with the tissues behind; and in dia- phragmatic hernia, and in hernia following a wound of the abdominal walls where there is no parietal peritoneum covering the aperture, there will be no sac. The pro- truded viscus enclosed in its peritoneal sac forms a swelling surrounded by the tissues of the part into which it has escaped. The tissues superficial to it, i.e., between