98 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. B. Blood-cysts or h^matomata may be subdivided into—1. True blood-cysts, which are most commonly met with in the neck, and consist of thin-walled cysts contain- ing pure blood. Their mode of origin is doubtful, but they appear to have some connection with the veins, since if tapped they often bleed very freely. 2. Cysts, formed by condensation of the tissues around a mass of extravasated blood. In such the blood may become absorbed or organized; or it may break down and disin- tegrate, or deposit fibrin upon the wall of the cyst; or suppuration may occur and an abscess ensue. They are common in the scalp {cejphalhcematoma)^ and on the ear {hematoma auris) but may occur in any situation after injury. The extravasation of blood into serous cavities and into solid tumours is also by some included under Hsematoma ; but such a classification is misleading (see Hematocele, Sarcoma). C. Proliferous compound cysts are cysts containing growths. They are most common in the breast and ovary, and will be ^ found more fully described under Diseases of the Breast. These cysts are developed in connection with the growth of solid tumours, and must be distinguished from cystic degeneration, which, as has already been shown, is very common in some forms of tumour. In the one case, the cysts which may be regarded as primary, contain growths springing from their walls or projecting into them from the growth around. In the other case, the cysts are secondary, and are produced by the degeneration and softening of the tumour-elements, or by the extravasation of blood into the substance of the tumour. D. Parasitic cysts are such as are formed in the tissues around a parasite. As an example may be men- tioned the Hydatid cyst, for an account of which, as of other parasitic cysts, the student is referred to a work on Medicine. III. Cysts of Congenital Origin. Congenital cysts may be formed in various ways 1. By the inclusion of a portion of epiblast within the mesoblast {dermoid cysts). 2. By the distension in after life of some foetal structure which has not become obliterated in the course of normal development, for example encysted