459 FRACTtlRES OF TSE KtTMERtJS. fragment projects above the crease at tlie front of the elbow. In dislocation, on the other hand—1, the de- formity does not reappear when reduced; 2, there is no crepitus; 3, the distance between the condyles and olecranon is increased; 4, the distance between the acromion and external condyle is the same on both sides; and 5, the prominent lower end of the humerus projects helow the crease at the front of the elbow. {})) Separation of the epiphysis.—The signs are similar to the above, but the patient is under twenty-one years of age. (c) T-shaped fracture.—In this there is a transverse fracture above the condyles, combined with a vertical or oblique fracture extending between the condyles into the joint. Signs.—Similar to the transverse fracture, except that the condyles move on one another as well as on the shaft, and the distance between them is increased. These signs, however, are often obscured by great effusion in and around the joint. {d) Fracture of the condyles.—The projecting internal condyle may be broken off without implicating the joint; or the fracture may extend obliquely through either condyle and the contiguous articular surface into the joint. Cause. — Generally direct violence. Signs. — Mobility and crepitus on grasping the condyles, and on flexing and extending the forearm when the internal condyle is fractured, and on pronating and supinating the hand when the external condyle is fractured. Method of union.—The extracapsular varieties unite by bone, the intracapsular by fibrous tissue. In the T-shaped fracture the transverse portion unites by bone; the vertical or oblique, i.e., the portion inside the joint, by fibrous tissue. Treatment.—If there is much swelling, and you cannot be quite sure that there is no dislocation, place the limb on a pillow, or better, on a Stromeyer's cushion, and apply cold in the form of lead lotion or ice, till the swelling has subsided. Subsequently reduce the fracture, and place the arm and forearm on an angular splint or on a bent anterior splint, or in Bavarian plaster, moulded leather, or poroplastic felt splints. Passive movements of the elbow should be begun early whenever the fracture in- volves the joint, but when it is transverse above the joint they should be delayed for a month, since there is then no danger of a stiff joint, but a risk of the passive move-