46 GEKEKAL PATHOLOGY OF StTRGICAL DISEASES.. cold and swollen, its sensibility is lost or blunted, and the pulse below the seat of injury is indistinguishable. As the patient recovers from the shock of the injury the circulation may return and all may be well; or the vitality of the part may become completely lost, the skin discoloured, and the other signs of putrefaction, already described, set in. Here the process is entirely a local one, and is dependent neither on constitutional disturb- ance, inflammation, nor septic agencies. But if the limb be not removed, the septic products will give rise to local inflammation and to constitutional signs of blood-poison- ing. The treatment consists in amputation well above the gangrenous j)art as soon as the diagnosis is thoroughly established; but as long as it is doubtful whether the limb will not recover, the part should be handled with all gentleness, kept warm with cotton-wool, and placed at rest on a pillow, while stimulants should be administered, and tight bandaging and splints avoided, as such might be sufticient to determine the death of the part. Spreading traumatic gangrene is a much more serious affection. Here the gangrene spreads with fearful rapidity towards the trunk, and is attended with severe constitu- tional symptoms. It occurs in two forms, one of which appears to depend upon the constitutional condition of the patient and is unattended with inflammation; the other upon a septic or infective inflammation. The former occurs in persons whose vitality has been lowered by previous ill-health or internal injury. It usually comes on about the second or third day after an injury that has been generally though not necessarily severe. The limb becomes swollen, cold, and of an earthy or leaden hue, and the gangrene rapidly extends towards the trunk unattended with any local sign of inflammation; the patient falls into a typhoid condition, and sinks as the gangrene reaches the trunk. The second or septic form is most frequent after severe crushes or bruises of a limb, especially the lower, with injury of the bone, as com- pound fracture attended with extravasation and retention of blood or serum in the tissues. The gangrene begins at the edge of the wound and spreads up towards the trunk, but is preceded by a blush of inflammatory redness and emphysema of the tissues. In this case the gangrene is • probably the result of an infective micro-organism in the wound {hacillus oedernatis maligni); the system becomes' poisoned by the absorption of the septic or infective pro--