KEUHALGiA 01' JOINTS; 273 position. Thus in an ankylosed elbow, especially when fixed in the extended position, excision of the joint should be practised. In a bent knee a wedge-shaped piece may be removed, or an osteotomy done. In the hip, subcutaneous osteotomy of the neck of the femur or of the shaft just below the trochanters may be undertaken. In the shoulder, no operation as a rule is required, as the movement of the scapula on the trunk is very free. When ankylosis is accompanied by much wasting of the limb, amputation may be necessary. Neuralgia of joints.—Pain of a neuralgic character unassociated with heat, redness, swelling, or physical signs of organic disease, is occasionally met with in one or more joints, especially in young women of the neuro- mimetic temperament. They are very difficult cases to deal with, and should receive the greatest care and attention, lest an erroneous diagnosis be made. Nearly all the signs of organic joint-disease may be simulated; thus, there may be pain on movement, or some slight redness and heat of the part, or fixity of the joint. The pain, however, is generally superficial, and is not in- creased on movement of the joint if the patient's atten- tion in the meanwhile is otherwise engaged ; the redness and heat will often be found on enquiry to be due to previous friction or the use of irritants; and under an an'fBsthetic the rigidity of the joint completely disappears, its movements then being found to be free, smooth, and natural. Further, on recovery from the ansesthetic, the rigidity does not return until the patient again directs her attention to the joint, whereas in organic disease it returns as soon as the muscular relaxation ceases. The treatment consists in the employment of the ordinary remedies for neuralgia, both locally and internally. Where the patient is of a neuro-mimetic tempera- ment, and organic disease is simulated, appropriate hysterical treatment must be adopted. Bee a loork on Medicine. Arthrectomy or erasion of joints consists in scraping or cutting away the whole of the diseased synovial membrane, after the cavity of the joint has been fully exposed by some such incision as that employed in excisions. It is a useful addition to our methods of treating diseased joints, and appears to be especially in- dicated for those cases in which the disease is too far advanced to ^deld to the ordinary plan of treatment, but W. T