INTEACHANIAL HEMORRHAGE. 367 The treatment will necessarily depend upon tlie cause of the compression. Thus a depressed fragment of bone should be removed (see depressed fracture) ^ a clot between the bone and dura mater let out by the trephine, and a circumscribed collection of pus between the bone and dura mater, or in the membranes or brain, also evacuated by the trephine. But when the compression depends upon extravasated blood in the subdural or subarachnoid space or substance of the brain, or upon a general inflammation of the brain and its membranes, no surgical procedure is of any avail. In any case, therefore, the first point to consider in regard to treatment is whether the com- pression of the brain is due to a removable cause, or to one that is beyond the reach of surgery. Extravasation oe blood in the cranium may occur 1. Between the bone and dura mater; 2. In the subdural space; 3. In the subarachnoid space; and 4. In the sub- stance of the brain. 1. Blood hetiueen the hone and dura mater [suhcranial extravasation) is generally due to rupture \ of the middle meningeal artery, especially its anterior branch, and is commonly associated with a fissured fracture extending across the line of the artery. At times it is due to a wound of the lateral sinus or a laceration of some of the small vessels which run from the dura mater into the bone. The blood is usually extravasated in large quan- tities, widely separating the dura mater from the bone, and producing severe compression of the brain. Should the patient survive, the blood may become organized or absorbed. 2. Subdural extravasation is due to rupture of capillary vessels, and is very common in severe head injuries. The blood usually extends widely over the surface of the arachnoid, and, if the patient survive, may become absorbed or organized, forming a false membrane, and in some cases a blood-cyst. 3. Subarachnoid extravasation is generally associated with contusion or laceration of the brain. The blood may spread widely, and may become absorbed, but does not as a rule become organized. 4. Blood in the brain substance {intracerebral extravasa- tion) is the result of contusion or laceration of the brain, with rupture of the small vessels. When the laceration is extensive, it is usually fatal; but should the patient survive, the blood may undergo changes similar to those