196 INJURIES or SPECIAL TISSUES. until the rent in the capsule has united and the torn liga- ments and muscles have had time to heal. Unless the case is seen immediately after the accident, whilst the patient is faint, and the muscles are in consequence re- laxed, an anaesthetic had better be given to overcome the resistance of the muscles. The reduction may then be effected either by, 1, manipulaiion, or 2, extension. 1. Manipulation consists in putting the limb througb certain movements of flexion, extension, rotation, and circumduction, varying according to the situation and variety of the dislocation. By means of these movements we endeavour:—{a) To overcome the obstacles to reduc- tion by relaxing the stretched ligaments and tendons, and disengaging any hitching points of bone; and (b) To make the displaced head retrace as it were its steps and re-enter its socket. In order to employ manipulation successfully it is essential that the Surgeon should know the anatomy of the part, the direction in which the bone has travelled to reach its abnormal situation, and the probable position of the rent in the capsule. 2. Extension is a much less scientific method of reducing a dislocation, and should never be resorted to, except in certain forms of dislocation which will be mentioned hereafter, till manipulation has been tried. It was the method almost always employed by the older Surgeons, and has for its object the forcible dragging of the dis- placed end of the bone into its socket, or opposite its socket, into which it is then drawn by muscular con- traction. In many forms of dislocation the method is as harmful in practice as it is wrong in principle, since the displaced head, as in some forms'of dislocation of the hip, can only be drawn into its socket in this forcible manner by rupturing the resisting ligaments and tendons. In employing extension, traction is made in the long axis of the limb by the Surgeon, either with his hands or by means of a jack-towel secured by a clove hitch to the limb, or if more force is required, by multiplying pulleys. Counter-extension is in the meanwhile made in the opposite direction to the extending force, but in the same straight line, either by the Surgeon pressing with his heel or knee on the part above the dislocation, or by fixing the part with a jack-towel or suitable strap to a hook in the floor or wall. When sufficient extension has been em- ployed to draw the head of the bone opposite its socket, the Surgeon should endeavour to guide it into its place.