006 DISEASES OE REGIOTs^S. latous character and is then generally associated with erysipelas of the face. Here a few words only can be said on the phlegmonous form, which, perhaps, more com- monly comes under the care of the general Surgeon. It is usually the result of an injury. The pharynx is in- tensely red and swollen, the neck often brawny and oedematous, swallowing is difficult or impossible, respira- tion is laboured, and death may occur in a few days from sudden spasm of the glottis, or from exhaustion and blood-poisoning. The treatment consists in inhalations of steam impregnated with carbolic acid; free incisions if pus forms in accessible situations; the administration of fluid nourishment and stimulants, in the form of enemata if the patient is unable to swallow; and the performance of instant tracheotomy if oedematous laryngitis super- venes. IJLCERATioisr generally occurs in connection with like ulceration of the palate, fauces, and tonsils. (See Tonsils.) Here it need only be said that the healing of the ulcers, especially those of the tertiary syphilitic variety, is some- times productive of great deformity. Thus, 1, the soft palate may become glued to the back of the pharynx; or 2, to the base of the tongue ; and 3, the lower part of the pharynx may be narrowed just above the entrance to the larynx, rendering deglutition difficult, and sub- jecting the patient to the risk of suffocation from the lodgnient of food at the constricted part. Treatment.— Adhesions between the palate and pharynx can hardly be remedied; but when contraction or stenosis of the lower pharynx has occurred, the cicatricial bands should be ■ divided in a backward direction with a guarded knife and recontraction prevented by the daily passage of a bougie. I have found a Eicord's urethrotome answer admirably for making the division. If the introduction of instru- ments causes much spasm, tracheotomy should be pre- viously performed. Postpharyngeal abscess is a collection of pus in the loose cellular tissue behind the pharynx, and is most often met with in children. It is generally chronic and due to disease of the cervical vertebrae or more rarely of the base of the skull; but it may be acute, and is then usually the result of an injury, as swallowing acids or the impaction of a foreign body, or of the exanthemata, phlegmonous pharyngitis, &c. It sometimes occurs with- out apparent cause; there is then often a history of