APPENDIX. 866 Amputation of the foot may be done by one of tlie following methods :— Disarticulation at the ankle-joint {Syme^s amputation) consists in removing ttie foot at tlie ankle joint, cutting off tbe ends of the tibia and fibula, and retaining the integuments of the heel as a covering for the bones. An incision down to the bone is made across the under surface of the heel from the tip of the external malleolus to a little behind and below the internal malleolus, i.e., to a point exactly opposite its commencement. This incision ij-houldincline slightly backwards, so as to cross theoscalcis just in front of the tubercles (Fig. 335, 0 to 1'). A second incision is next made across the front of the ankle (Fig. 335, I to 0), the joint opened, the lateral ligaments divided, and the OS calcis cleared from its posterior and lateral connec- tions by cutting from above downwards. Syme, however, formed his heel-flap by dissecting it from the bone from below upwards, a more difficult procedure than cutting from above downwards as is now always done at St. Bar- tholomew's. The knife should be kept close to the bone to avoid injuring the posterior tibial artery or button- holing the integuments. The malleoli and a thin slice of the tibia are finally sawn oft (Fig. 335, a). The anterior tibial and the plantar arteries require ligaturing; the latter are situated at the extremity of the inner side of the heel-flap. Firogoff^s operation is a modification of Syme's. It differs in that the posterior part of the os calcis is left in the heel-flap to unite with the sawn end of the tibia. It is performed in a similar manner, save that the sole- incision is carried slightly forward instead of backward (Fig. 335,0to4), and after the ankle-jointis opened, and the OS calcis exposed, the posterior part of the latter is sawn off (Fig. 335 d) instead of being dissected out. The sawn surface of the os calcis is then turned up and placed in contact with the sawn end of the tibia, to which it may advantageously be fixed by an ivory peg driven through the heel-flap and os calcis into the lower end of the tibia. The Medio-tarsal amputation {Choparfs) consists in amputation of part of the foot through the transverse tarsal joint, i.e., the joint formed by the os calcis and astragalus behind, and the cuboid and scaphoid in front (Fig. 335 b). a curved incision with its convexity for- wards is made across the dorsum of the foot from imme- diately behind the tubercle of the scaphoid to a point