SUKGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS. 725 be plugged for twenty-four hours with, iodoform gauze if there is much oozing, and the p^rts subsequently irrigated frequently. Diseases of the Urinary Organs. SURGICAL diseases OF THE KIDNEYS. Nephritis, or inflammation of the kidney, as met with in surgical practice, is commonly the result of long- standing disease of the bladder, urethra, or prostate, or of the impaction of a calculus in the ureter or pelvis of the kidney. Traumatic nephritis has already been alluded to under Injuries of the Abdomen. The inflammation when secondary to other diseases of the urinary organs may be produced in several ways. Thus, it may be due to—1. Tension in the tubules of the kidney, resulting from obstruction to the outflow of urine consequent upon long-standing stricture of the urethra or prostatic enlargement. Under these circumstances the inflammation falls chiefly on the cortical and medullary substance of the kidney {interstitial nephritis). 2. The presence of septic matter in the pelvis of the kidney due to (a) the spread of inflammation up the ureter from the bladder, or {h) decomposition of pent-up urine behind an impacted calculus in the ureter or pelvis of the kidney. In this case the inflammation is of a septic or suppurative character, and although it may chiefly affect either the lining membrane of the pelvis {pyelitis) or the substance of the organ [suppurative nephritis), it more generally in- volves both {pyelo-nephritis). At times, the pelvis and calices become distended with the pus, and the kidney is finally converted into a suppurating cyst [pyo-nephrosis). 3. Eeflex irritation of the kidney through the nervous system, as from the passage of a catheter in stricture or enlarged prostate, or the performance of some operation on the urinary organs, as lithotomy or lithotrity. Here the inflammation is usually transitory, unless the kidneys are already suffering from the effects of urinary obstruc- tion, when it may run on to suppuration. Simple interstitial nephritis usually begins in an in- sidious manner, the symptoms of the kidney mischief being obscured by the primary affection of the urinary organs from which the patient is probably suffering. It may be suspected, however, where there is continual loss