169 TETANUS. and a drop or two ici subcutaneously injected under the skin of the abdomen or flank. Tbe cords are used in an ascending series from the 14tli or loth day of drying up- wards, until on tbe 9 th day of treatment a cord which has been dried for only 3 days is used. The treatment is continued for 16 days. The above is known as the Simple method. For face-bites a more rapid method has been found necessary to prevent the disease. In this, which is called the Intensive method^ a cord of only 3 days' drying is used on the 6th day, and the treatment is continued with two days' intermission until the 20th day. This method, however, appears to be somewhat dangerous, patients so treated having died with symptoms of the paralytic form of the disease similar to that in- duced in animals by inoculation. Palliative treatment.—When hydrophobia has super- vened, all that can be done is to relieve symptoms. Thus the patient should be placed in a darkened room, and every source of irritation that may cause spasm avoided. Opium and morphia should also be given for the same purpose. Chloral, chloroform, eserine, pilocarpine, curare, and many other drugs have been given ; but all are use- less, and some, as chloroform and curare, are not unat- tended with danger. Tetanus is a disease in which the voluntary muscles are thrown from time to time into a state of intense spasm, whilst they remain in the intervals in a condition of constant contraction {tonic spasm). Cause.—Tetanus was formerly attributed to a lesion of the peripheral nerves; but recent researches render it almost certain that it is an infective disease depending upon a specific virus generated by the growth of a micro- organism {hacillus tetani). It is especially prevalent in hot climates, and amongst the negro races; it occurs more often in men than in women, and in military than in civil practice. It is seldom met with in this country except in connection with a wound, and is especially common after lacerated and punctured wounds and burns; but it has been known to occur after every kind of wound, from a mere scratch, or the ligature of a pile or j the umbilical cord, to amputation of the thigh or other I capital operation. Tetanus, however, has been more often observed to occur when the wound, whatever its cause and character, is in a septic condition. Exposure to cold, damp, and sudden changes of temperature, are i