PROLAPSUS RECTI. 711 pain, the result of spasm of the sphincter. It is often very severe, and occurs during and after defeecation. It may last for a few minutes or longer, even to several hours, and then ceases till the next motion. The pain may not only be felt in the anus, but may be reflected down the thighs or to other parts, as the uterus, vagina, or testicle. The motions are often slightly streaked with blood, some- times with pus. On examination the sphincters are found spasmodically contracted. On gently everting the margins of the anus the end of the ulcer will be discovered usually at the posterior part, a small external pile or an oedematous fold of skin which is generally present then serving as a guide to it. The passage of the finger is at- tended with great pain. Treatment,—In slight cases the use of laxatives and the application of astringent lotions or ointments may be sufficient. If these fail the sphincter must be forcibly dilated, or the ulcer divided together with half or more of the external sphincter by drawing a straight bistoury longitudinally through the base of the ulcer. The bowels should then be kept confined for four or five days, and the motions afterwards kept soft for a fortnight or longer. Or the sphincter may be divided subcutaneously by passing a tenotomy knife beneath it through the mucous membrane and cutting outwards towards the skin. This little operation may be done with- out pain by painting the mucous membrane at the seat of puncture with cocaine, and does not necessitate the patient's lying up for more than two or three days. Prolapsus recti is the protrusion of the mucous membrane of the lower part of the rectum, and more rarely of the muscular coat as well, through the anus. It is most common in children, but may occur at any age. The causes are either a relaxed state of the sphincter in- duced by general weakness, residence in hot climates, &c., or excessive straining due to stricture of the urethra, phimosis, stone, ascarides, constipation, piles, or polypus. Signs and diagnosis,—It commonly appears as an irregular ring of mucous membrane, or when much is protruded, as a cylindrical elongated swelling. When recent, it has the colour of healthy mucous membrane, but if not soon reduced it may become livid and congested, in consequence of constriction of the blood-vessels by the sphincter. The strangulation may proceed to such an extent that the prolapsed portion may undergo mortification and slough away. In old-standing cases it becomes indurated and