92 aElSTEEAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. the spheroidal-celled carcinomata are divided iuto hard and soft, it should be understood that no hard and fast line can be drawn between them, as the characters of the one often merge into those of the other, so that some- times it may be difficult to decide whether an individual spheroidal-celled carcinoma should be classed as hard or soft. Usual seats.—The testis, liver, bladder, kidney, ovary, and breast. Secondary growths in internal organs con- sequent upon the dissemination of scirrhous cancer are often of the soft variety. (c.) Colloidf gelatiniform, or alveolar carcinomata,— These terms are applied to either of the above described varieties, or indeed to any form of carcinoma, which has undergone mucoid or colloid degeneration. It is believed that the degeneration generally begins in the cells which, as they become enlarged, so distend the alveoli that the latter can be seen by the naked eye. The colloid material is glistening, semi-translucent, and jelly-like, or in places diffluent. In it some spheroidal cells are generally found. The favourite seats of these cancers are the stomach, intestine, omentum and ovary; but they occasionally occur in the breast. 2. The squamous-celled ca-rcinomata (Upitheliomata) always spring from the skin or a mucous membrane, and constitute the second great division of the cancers. They are characterized by the resemblance of their cells to squamous epithelium. The typical alveolar arrangement of the carcinomata is much less well marked than in the spheroidal-celled or acinous variety. It was to this squamous-celled form of carcinoma that the term epithelioma was originally applied; but as all carcinomas are now believed to be epithelial growths, the term squamous-celled is prefixed to this variety to distinguish it from the columnar-celled and the spheroidal-celled carcinomata. Squamous-celled carcinomata may spring either from the skin or from any mucous membrane covered with squamous epithe- lium, and are especially common where skin and mucous membrane meet, as in the lip, anus, &c. They are most frequent in the old, seldom occurring under forty years of age, and are more common in men than in women. They are usually the result of continued irritation; thus in the tongue they may be due to the presence of a jagged tooth, in the lip to the constant contact of a hot