DISEASES OF REGIOIS'S. 848 whilst others again recommend the division of the tendon by open antiseptic incision, as in this way the danger of puncturing and admitting air into a vein is avoided. If the subcutaneous division, however, is carefully done in the manner here adyised, I do not believe there need be any fear of air entering the veins. I have now performed this little operation many times and have never ex- perienced any difficulty or trouble. In spasmodic cases conium, Indian hemp, bromide of potassium, &c., maybe tried. These failing, the spinal accessory nerve may be stretched just above the spot where it enters the sterno-mastoid. In very intractable cases a piece of the nerve may be excised, and if the posterior cervical muscles are also involved in the spasm, excision of portions of the posterior division of the first four cervical nerves may be simultaneously or subsequently undertaken. Tenotomy of the sterno-mastoid should in these and in hysterical cases on no account be done. In the latter, hysterical remedies should of course be used. Knock-knee or genu valgum is a deformity in which, when the knees are placed together in the extended position with the patellae looking directly forwards, the legs^iverge. One or both knees may be affected, or there may be genu valgum on one side and genu varum on the other. Cause,—Knock-knee is generally the result either of rickets, when it occurs between the second and the seventh year; or of carrying heavy weights, long standing and the like, when it is most common in growing, underfed and overworked lads and girls from fourteen to eighteen. The deformity is variously believed to depend on :—I, an overgrowth of the internal condyle of the femur, and a corresponding uprising of the inner tuberosity of the tibia; 2, the relaxation of the internal lateral ligament; or 3, the contraction of the biceps tendon. In the majority of cases the osseous lesion is certainly present, and I have no doubt in my own mind that it is upon this that the deformity in rickety cases usually depends, though I admit that in some of those rapid cases induced by ex- cessive weight-bearing in weakly lads, a relaxation of the ligaments may be the principal factor. The contraction of the biceps tendon when present I regard as the result, and not as the cause of the affection. Treatment—In slight rickety cases keeping the child entirely off its legs, the application of splints, and the internal use of appro-