I TRACHEOTOMY. 623 the more deliberately it can be done, the less are the risks i attending it. A small pillow having been placed beneath 1 the neck so as to render it prominent, make an incision from the cricoid cartilage, exactly in the middle line, for an inch and a half to two inches downwards according to the age of the patient, fatness of the neck, &c. (Figs. 238 and 242, d). Divide the skin and superficial fascia, and having found the interval between the sterno-hyoid muscles continue your incision between them, carefully avoiding any large veins. The isthmus of the thyroid . will now be seen in the lower part of the wound as a ! bluish-red body; and if sufficient room does not exist between it and the cricoid cartilage, draw it down gently with a blunt hook ; or if this cannot be readily done, notch it in the middle line or divide it. The drawing down- wards of the isthmus is greatly facilitated by dividing transversely on the cricoid the layer of fascia which ex- tends from the cricoid cartilage to the isthmus. By doing this, moreover, the wounding of the veins between the layers of fascia will be avoided. The first two or three rings of the trachea having now been fully exposed, and all arterial haemorrhage arrested by ligature or pressure- forceps, thrust the sharp hook into the trachea imme- diately below the cricoid cartilage, and steadying it in this way, divide the first two or three rings by thrusting in the knife with the back of the blade directed down- wards and by cutting towards the cricoid. Venous haemorrhage, except from a large vein, which of course should be tied or clamped, need not delay the opening of the trachea, as it depends on engorgement of the right side of the heart, and will disappear after two or three inspira- tions through the tracheal wound. The wound in the trachea being held open by the tracheal dilator, pass the outer tube, made wedge-shaped by pressing it between the finger and thumb, into the trachea, and then imme- j diately insert the inner cannula, as until this is done, air cannot freely pass through the tube. Secure the tube ' in situ by tracheotomy tapes tied behind the neck. Where ! the operation is performed for croup or diphtheria, the - 1 tube should not, as a rule, be inserted at once, but the wound held open by the dilator, and any false membrane removed by a feather passed both down into the trachea and up into the larynx or if this does not succeed, by a Parker's suction-tube apparatus. The bivalve cannula in general use, is apt, on account of its shape, to produce