MENINGITIS. 519 but when the deeper parts are affected it may not be possible to do so with certainty. The points that will help the surgeon are, facial palsy, the persistence of offen- sive discharge in spite of cleanliness, and granulations resisting all attempts at destruction. Even then it may be necessary to put the patient under an anaesthetic, and carefully examine with a probe. Treatment. — If the diseased bone can be reached without further injuring the hearing, it should be freely scraped or removed. (4.) Meningitis and intracranial suppuration.— Although meningitis may supervene in the course of acute purulent catarrh of the middle ear, it is generally in the course of the chronic disease that it arises. Intracranial suppuration may occur between the dura mater and the bone—suhdural abscess—or in the cerebrum or cere- bellum. Subdural abscess is generally found on the roof of the tympanum or on the posterior surface of the petrous bone; cerebral abscess in the hinder part of the middle temporo-sphenoidal lobe; cerebellar abscess in the an- terior part of the lateral lobe. If in the course of chronic suppuration, headache, rigors, and rise of tem- perature supervene, we may strongly suspect intracranial mischief, and if in addition there is photophobia, sluggish pupils, and optic neuritis, the diagnosis is all but certain. Treatment.—If the symptoms point to the probability of intracranial abscess the skull should be trephined, and an attempt made to reach the pus. The position of the trephine openings to reach matter are the following :—(a) to reach the mastoid antrum the centre of the trephine opening should be ^ inch behind, and ^ inch above the centre of the external auditory meatus ; {h)to expose the anterior surface of the petrous bone, and roof of the tympanum, the centre of the open- ing should be ^ inch above the middle of the meatus; (c) to expose the lateral sinus, the opening should be Ig^ inch behind, and J inch a.bove the middle of the meatus; {d) to reach a temporo-sphenoidal abscess, trephine 1^ inch behind, and 1^ inch above the meatus; (e) to reach a cere- bellar abscess, trephine IJ inch behind, and J inch below the middle of the meatus. Use a half-inch trephine, and afterwards enlarge the opening when necessary with chisel, gouge, forceps, &c. (5.) Phlebitis and septicemia.—Phlebitis of the lateral sinus may supervene in the course of suppuration of the middle ear, especially when there is caries of some