INFLAMMATION. 11 (h) The parasitic bacteria reside in living organic mate- rial and derive their food from the fluids of the circulation or from the protoplasm of the living cell. Some of these are only capable of thriving in living tissues {true para- sites) ; some, though occasionlly found in living tissues, are as a rule found in dead organic material [facultative parasites); some, again, though they require living tissues for their growth and development, at times act as sapro- phytes {facultative saprophytes). Parasitic bacteria may be divided from a pathological point of view into the non- pathogenic, which exist in the body without doing any harm, and the pathogenic, which produce disease either by their direct influence or by their chemical action. Pathogenic bacteria include : 1, those which are capable of attacking a healthy organism, as the anthrax bacillus; and 2, those which develop when the life energy of the cells of the organism are depressed, or when the tissues in which they live are altered, as the tubercle bacillus. In the former the special properties of the bacteria, and in the latter the predisposition of the organism to attack, are the determining factors. The methods by which bac- teria may gain admission to the body and set up inflam- mation have already been referred to (p. 9). Having gained admission, they may merely affect the tissues at the place of entry, setting up a local inflammation; or they may extend by the lymphatics to the nearest lymphatic gland, where they may be arrested or pass through it and thus enter the circulation; or they may make their way into the small veins, and so gain the cir- culation at once, and become lodged, according to the nature of the bacteria, in the capillaries of various tissues and organs. Bacteria growing in connection with a mu- cous membrane may extend along the surface as in diphtheria; or may be carried from one point to another, as, in phthisis, from the lungs to the larynx or intestine. Diseased tissues produced by one kind of bacteria may be secondarily infected by another kind; thus croupous pneumonia is frequently secondarily infected by the tubercle bacillus, and the tuberculous tissue by the mi- crococcus of suppuration. It is believed that the tissues may be protected against the development of bacteria (a) by the normal resistance of the organism to the pro- cess of disease, the "vis medicatrix naturae; " {b) by the exhaustion of the soil—thus the occurrence of a disease once is thought to protect against a second attack by the