268 DISEASES OP SPECIAL TISSUES. thickening of the synovial membrane, and deformity of the patella; and in the shoulder, enlargement or displace- ment of the head of the bone. In the hip the disease may closely simulate intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur; in the shoulder, dislocation of the humerus. (See Fracture of Femur and Dislocation of Shoulder,) Treatment.—Although the disease cannot be cured, and may get steadily worse as the patient grows older, much can be done in the way of relief. Thus the whole body should be warmly clad, the diet carefully regulated, stimulants prohibited or restricted in quantity, and a periodical visit paid to such spas as Buxton, Harrogate, Bath, Wiesbaden, Aix-les-Baios, or Wildbad. Locally, massage, friction, and passive movements, should be from time to time employed; the joint should be enveloped in wool or flannel, but should not be kept at rest on a splint, since this will only tend to increase the stiffness. In the way of drugs, cod-liver oil, iodine, iodide of potassium, arsenic, and guaiacum, are of most service. Blisters and fumigations of sulphur are recommended for relieving the pain. Charcot's disease is an affection of the joints closely resembling osteo-arthritis. It is believed by some to depend upon degenerations in the spinal cord (locomotor ataxia) and therefore to be the result of trophic changes in the joint. Others, however, regard it merely as an osteo-arthritis occurring accidentally in a patient the subject of locomotor ataxia. The pathological changes are similar to those already described under osteo-arthritis, but the destruction of the joint is more marked. Briefly they may be said to consist in erosion of the cartilages, softening of the ligaments, grinding away of the articular surfaces and often of the contiguous portions of the shaft of the bone, induration of the remaining portions of the articular surfaces, thickening and at times pouchings of the synovial membrane, and formation of osteophytes around. Suppuration is very rare. These changes may affect one joint only, or may occur successively in several joints. The signs in a tj'pical case are as follows:—Sudden swelling of a joint, usually without much pain or any marked signs of inflammation, followed, on the subsidence of the swelling, by preternatural mobility, and the fonna- tion of processes of bone about the articular surfaces and in the surroundmg muscles and tendons. There is great deformity, but not much pain either on movement or