821 PISEASES OF THE YULYA. SuBGicAL Diseases op the Female Genital Organs, DISEASES OF THE YULYA. Adhesion of the labia majora sometimes occurs as a congenital affection. The labia should be separated by p' forcibly drawing them asunder, with the assistance, if necessary, of a probe, and a piece of iodoform gauze placed between them to prevent re-adhesion. If neg- lected, it may be a source of inconvenience at puberty. j The parts are then more firmly adherent, and may require I division by the knife. I Vulvitis, or inflammation of the vulva, is in adults j most usually the result of gonorrhoea, but occurs in young children, from other causes, such as cold, in- jury, the irritation of thread-worms, &c. Sometimes j the sebaceous glands and hair-follicles of the labia are I chiefly affected, the parts then appearing dotted over with small red pimples, and later, if suppuration occurs, with small pustules. There is usually much redness and oedema, and an offensive discharge. It is of some importance to recognise the fact that the disease may occur in children from simple causes, as, amongst the ; poor, mothers are apt to think their child has been tampered with. Treatment,—In addition to the removal of the cause, cleanliness, rest, attention to the general health, and the use of a mild astringent lotion, is all that is usually required. Abscess occasionally follows inflammation of the vulva. It is often due to the extension of inflammation (generally ' gonorrhoeal) to Bartholin's gland, or to suppuration in a labial cyst. A free and early incision should be made to prevent burrowing of pus, which is otherwise apt to occur, leading to the formation of obstinate fistulae. Cysts in the labium are generally due to the obstruc- tion of a mucous follicle or the duct of Bartholin's gland, as the result of irritation. Dermoid and sebaceous cysts are more rarely met with. The mucous cysts generally contain a glairy fluid, and as their walls are thin, appear as semi-translucent, oval, elastic swellings. They occa- sionally suppurate. Excision of a portion of the wall, and cauterization, plugging, or scraping away the lining membrane to ensure healing from the bottom, is all that ! is usually necessary.