DISEASES OF REGIONS. 540 and more common form of chronic plastic uveitis may be called Anterior Uveitis {Serous Iritis) from its affecting the anterior part of the uveal tract. It is characterized by keratitis punctata, deep anterior chamber, often dila- tation of the pupil, increased tension, and the usual symptoms of iritis and cyclitis, accompanied frequently by a few peripheral choroidal changes, and small vitreous opacities. It is generally found in young adults and is often -associated with gout, rheumatism, and struma. The treatment is complete rest for the eyes, and atropine with careful watching of tension. The Uveal tract may be affected in any part by sarcoma, (generally melanotic), but the usual primary ocular seat of sarcoma is the ciliary body or the choroid. Y. Diseases of the crystalline lens. Cataract is the name applied to an opacity, complete or partial, of the lens, and is due to structural changes. Cataracts may be divided into hard or soft, according to their consistency, and this usually depends on age, as below thirty-five they are all ''soft." They are called primary when independent of any other ocular affection, and secondary when following some other disease, as glau- coma, intra-ocular tumour, &c. Though all cataracts at first are incomplete or partial, yet it is advisable to make a division into (1) complete (including those that in time tend to become complete), and (2) partial (those that do not, as a rule, tend to become complete). (1) Complete cataracts are usually senile or hard, and are called, according to their seat of origin, nuclear or cortical. Nuclear cataracts are characterized by an opacity at the nucleus of the lens; they are often amber in colour and usually hard, except sometimes in diabetes; cortical cataracts, which are the more common, begin as flakes or streaks radiating from the axis of the lens. Congenital cataract may occur as a general opacity of the lens; it is usually binocular, and of course soft. A com- plete cataract may degenerate and its cortex become fluid [Morgagnian Cataract), (2) Partial cataracts include [a) lamellar, (&) anterior polar, and (c) posterior polar. {a) Lamellar {zonular) cataract is either congenital or forms in early life; it is generally associated with a