72 GEI^ERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. these be muscle, fat, bone, &c., and in consequence become more or less fixed and adherent. They frequently involve the lymphatic glands, and become disseminated through the body by means either of the lymph or blood- stream. They usually recur after removal, in the scar, in the corresponding lymphatic glands, or in internal organs, and sooner or later give rise to a general cachectic condition known as the cancerous cachexia. Death is commonly due to exhaustion caused by the local ulceration, hsemor- rhage and pain, combined with the mental distress, and the general interference with nutrition induced by the rapid growth of the tumour and its dissemination through internal organs. Secondary changes are common in tumours, especially in those of more rapid growth. Thus a tumour may become inflamed, or may ulcerate, or undergo fatty, mucoid, colloid, pigmentary, or calcareous degeneration; or as the result of these changes, or of haemorrhage into its substance, cysts, or, more rarely, circumscribed abscesses, may form in its interior; or the whole tumour may undergo necrosis, and, in exceptional instances, slough away. Recurrence and dissemination.—Local recurrence is probably the result of some of the tumour-elements having escaped removal, and may take place in the scar, or in the tissues immediately around. Eeproduction in the neighbouring lymphatic glands is believed to be due to the tumour-cells becoming arrested in the lymph- sinuses ; dissemination in more distant tissues and organs to the tumour-cells being carried by the blood-stream (which they may enter either directly, or indirectly by the lymph-channels) to these parts, where they become lodged and form starting-points for secondary growths. Secondary growths, whether in the glands, or elsewhere, resemble in structure the primary tumour. Classification,—Tumours are here classified, partly ac- cording to their supposed origin, and partly^ according to their anatomical structure. Thus, they may be divided into:—■ I. Mesohlastic or connective-tissue tumours^ which are such as spring from the connective tissue. These may be subdivided into :—A. Those of the type of fully-formed connective tissue, i.e., fibrous, cartilaginous, fatty, osseous, and mucous tissue: (1) Fibroma, (2) Enchondroma, (3) Lipoma, (4) Osteoma, and (5) Myxoma^ B. Those of the