764 DISEASES OE REGIONS. Acute abscess may be suspected, when in tbe course of acute prostatitis rigors and retention of urine supervene. Fluctuation can at times be felt through, the rectum, but the abscess is generally first discovered on passing a cathether for the relief of the retention of urine, when a quantity of pus escapes from the urethra. At times the abscess may burst into the rectum or perineum. Treat- ment.—Free incision in the middle line of the perineum to let out the pus. When the pus forms around the pros- tate instead of in its substance, a 'periprostatic abscess is said to have occurred. The cause, symptoms, and treat- ment are similar. Cheonic prostatitis generally occurs as a sequel to the acute. The symptoms are similar but of much less intensity; and there is a glairy discharge with, sometimes, a drop or two of blood in it. The urine is cloudy and contains pus and prostatic casts. Nocturnal emissions are frequent. If the inflammation is not relieved, cystitis may follow, and the bodily and mental health become seriously impaired. Treatment,—Blisters to the peri- neum, gentle laxatives, tonics especially iron, change of air or a sea voyage, sea-bathing, a generous diet, and the avoidance of stimulants, horse-exercise and sexual indul- gence. The application of silver nitrate to the prostatic urethra is recommended by some Surgeons when there are nocturnal emissions. Hypertrophy, or chronic enlargement of the prostate, must be carefully distinguished from the enlargement due to inflammation. It seldom occurs under the age of fifty or sixty, and is a common, though not an invariable, disease of old men. It may be due to hypertrophy of all the tissues forming the prostate ; or the glandular, muscular, or fibrous tissue only may be affected, then often forming distinct masses in the substance of the organ. The enlargement may involve the whole prostate, or may be confined to one or other of the lateral lobes or to the so-called middle lobe (Fig. 295). The causes are not known. The effects of chronic enlargement of the prostate are very serious when the out-flow of urine is impeded, similar changes occurring in the bladder, ureters and kidneys as described under stricture. The bladder behind the enlargement forms a pouch in which some urine may remain, after each act of micturition, unexpelled, and there, mixed with pus and mucus from the walls of the