686 DISEASES OE REGIONS. "What should be done, therefore, in a case of strangulated hernia ? The taxis should as a rule be applied for a few minutes ; if this is unsuccessful the patient may in some forms of inguinal hernia be put in a warm bath for twenty minutes, and another attempt then made to return the bowel. This failing, he should be placed under an anaesthetic, and should the bowel then not slip back readily on again gently trying the taxis, the operation for dividing the stricture should at once be proceeded with before he is allowed to recover from the anaesthetic. If the Surgeon is not prepared for the operation, or requires help, a full dose of opium should in the meantime be given, and ice, if at hand, or warmth in the form of a large poultice, be applied to the tumour. But it is better not to attempt the reduction under an anaesthetic till prepared to proceed with the operation. We have then to consider the method of applying the taxis, the cases in which it should not be used, the cases suitable for the hot bath, and the operation of herniotomy. The taxis.—The method of applying the taxis, which is merely the technical term given to the various manipula- tions used in returning the hernia into the abdomen, can only be learned by practice. The pelvis should be slightly raised, and the thigh in femoral hernia flexed and adducted A so as to relax as much as possible tha constricting ring. I With one hand, slightly raise the hernia, and grasp it I gently so that some of the flatus or fluid may be squeezed I out and the bulk lessened. With the finger and thumb of 1 the other hand, gently compress the neck laterally to pre- vent its bulging over the margin of the ring, and at the same time draw the hernia a little downwards to dis- engage its neck. The pressure should be applied steadily, not spasmodically, and its direction varied according to H the kind of hernia. No violence should be used, and if after a few minutes the intestine does not slip back with the characteristic rush, further attempts should not be made. Violent or prolonged efforts are strongly to be condemned, as not only are they unlikely to be successful, but may lead to the rupture of the intestine, or stopping short of this may cause so much bruising, ecchymosis, or inflammation, that they jeopardize its recovery after ope- ration. How long should the taxis be applied r Certainly not more than ten minutes at the outside. The length of time, however, may vary in different hernise. Eoughly j it may be given at about two minutes for a small tight