FRACTUEES OF THE HUMEHUS. 455 the root it is held in position by the coraco-clavicular ligaments, and but little displacement occurs. Signs.— Bruising and pain over the situation of the coracoid. On placing the finger on the tip of the coracoid some altera- tion in its relative position may be made out, and crepitus elicited by moving the arm. Treatment,—The forearm should be flexed to relax the biceps; the arm and forearm bandaged to the side; and a cap of gutta-percha placed over the shoulder. 5. Fracture of the glenoid cavity is rare. At times it occurs in connection with dislocation of the shoulder. The humerus.—Fractures of the humerus are divided into fractures of 1, the upper end; 2, the shaft; and 3, the lower end. 1. The upper end of the humerus.—Varieties,— A. Intracapsular, or fracture of the anatomical neck. B. Extracapsular, or fracture of the surgical neck. 0. Separation of the upper epiphysis. D. Fracture of the greater tuberosity. A. The intracapsular fracture may be impacted or non-impacted. When impacted the upper fragment, or •head, is generally driven into the lower, that is, between the tuberosities. Cause.—Glenerally direct violence, as a blow or fall on the shoulder. Signs.—Often obscure. There may be pain, swelling, impaired movement, and crepitus, with absence of signs of dislocation or of other fracture about the shoulder. In the impacted variety there is generally some prominence of the acromion ; loss of rotundity of the shoulder; slight shortening of the arm; inability to feel the whole of the head in the gle- noid cavity; and crepitus on firmly grasping the head and rotating the shaft. Method of union.—Fibrous or bony, often with excess of callus and impairment of movement of the joint. Treatment.—Apply a leather or poroplastic shield to the shoulder and outer side of the arm, rectifying any displacement inwards by a pad in the axilla. Bandage the arm from the fingers upwards to prevent swelling, and confine it to the side of the chest without raising the elbow. When the fracture is impacted do not disturb the fragments. Passive movements should be begun early (in about three weeks). B. The extracapsular fracture is the most common form of fracture about the shoulder. It may, like the intracapsular variety, be impacted or non-impacted; but when impaction occurs it is the lower fragment that