DISEASES OP BEGIONS. 664 to the wound, or the two portions of bowel united by suture. In stricture of the small intestine, enterotomy may be performed as a palliative, or, under suitable con- ditions, enterectomy with union of the intestines by one of the methods already described. 6. In contractions, where the intestines are matted together by chronic peritonitis or cancer, when medical means have failed, enterotomy may prove of temporary benefit by relieving the distension. 7. The treatment of acute peritonitis is given at page 423. For an account of the treatment of typhlitis and peri-typhlitis a work on Medicine must be consulted. Should, however, the inflammation terminate in sup- puration and an abscess form, it should be opened and drained, or should such an abscess burst into the general peritoneal cavity, the peritoneum should be washed out and a glass drainage tube left in the wound. The appendix, if found inflamed, plugged with a foreign body, ulcerated or gangrenous, should be amputated, and the stump sutured by Lembert's method. When it appears that recurring attacks of typhlitis are due to mischief in the appendix {recurring appendicitis), the question of removing the appendix after the acute attack has sub- sided may be raised. Laparotomy, abdominal section or opening the abdomen, is an operation that may be required for the purpose of exploration in doubtful cases of intestinal ob- struction, or for the relief of volvulus, strangulation of the intestines by bands or diverticula, intussusception, reduc- tion of hernia en masse, &c. The room should be at a temperature between 70° and 80° Fahr. and the patient placed on a rubber bed filled with hot water. The greatest care should be taken that nothing septic comes in contact with the wound or peritoneal cavity. The stomach may be irrigated with warm water before giving the anaesthetic. This prevents vomiting and may remove some of the con- tents of the upper part of the intestine and relieve dis- tension. Some Surgeons give a hypodermic injection of ^^th of a grain of atropine and a rectal enema of brandy to increase the heart's action. Having thoroughly cleansed the skin with soap and water and afterwards well sponged it with perchloride of mercury lotion (1 in 1000), make an incision in the middle line of the abdomen, mid- way between the pubes and umbilicus (Fig. 253, a), and having rapidly exposed the peritoneum and stopped all