TETANUS. 171 which cases of tetanus Lave occurred. It would appear that the bacillus only exists in the soil or in the wound; not in the blood or nervous system. The symptoms usually begin by a feeling of stiffness in the muscles of the neck; the patient complains that he is unable to open his mouth widely (trismus)^ and that his throat feels sore on swallowing. On examination, the mus- cles of the neck, the masseters, and perhaps the abdominal muscles, are found hard and rigid, and the face presents a characteristic expression from the angles of the mouth being drawn slightly upwards by the contraction of the facial muscles. Later, other of the voluntary muscles, especially those of respiration, become affected, and distinct spasms attended with severe pain and varying in dura- tion, occur from time to time. The spasms are induced by the slightest irritation, a breath of air, the least noise, the merest touch, and the remissions become shorter, or only partial, as thf^ disease is fully established. During the spasms the face assumes an expression of intense anguish {risus sardonicus)^ the respirations and pulse are quickened, and the body is variously contorted. Thus, when the spinal muscles are chiefly affected the back becomes arched, so that in severe cases the patient rests only on his head and heels [opisthotonos); more rarely the body is bent forward, being rolled up as it were like a ball (emprosthotonos); whilst still more rarely it may be drawn to one or other side (pleurosthotonos). The skin is bathed in perspiration, the urine concentrated and high coloured, and the bowels are obstinately confined. The temperature may remain normal, or be but slightly raised; though sometimes shortly before death it runs very high, and has been known to register 112° Fahr. The patient is unable to sleep, but the intellect continues clear to the end. Death may occur from spasm of the glottis, spasm of the respiratory muscles, or from exhaustion or syncope. Recovery hardly ever takes place when the symptoms are acute, but if the patient survive till the twelfth day the prognosis is more favourable, and becomes more and more so every day. Diagnosis,—From strychnine poisoning and hydro- phobia, tetanus is distinguished by the spasms being of a tonic instead of a clonic character, and further from hydrophobia by the absence of hallucinations and the discharge of viscid saliva, signs which are characteristic of that affection,