3aXCISlOlf OF THE TESTICLE. 819 less globular shape of the tumour; the lancinating pain; the implication of the skin and lumbar glands; the en* j largement of the scrotal yeins; the protrusion of a bleed- i ing fungus ; and later, the constitutional cachexia, will indicate malignancy. In the early stages, however, a puncture or even an exploratory incision may be neces- sary to distinguish it from chronic orchitis, hsematocele, I and syphilitic orchitis. Thus, in malignant disease, arterial ; blood will generally flow; in hsematocele, a chocolate- coloured fluid containing hsematin crystals and broken- down blood corpuscles will escape ; and in chronic orchitis, ; whether simple, syphilitic, or tubercular, nothing beyond ; perhaps a drop or two of blood will be withdrawn by 1 the cannula. At times a piece of the growth may come j away in the end of the cannula, and a microscopical ex- j amination of this will further aid in the diagnosis. Treatment.—Unless the glands are much affected, the cord is thickened, and great emaciation or cachexia is I present, with signs of the disease in the internal organs, excision of the testicle should be performed. When this appears undesirable from the above-mentioned reasons, ail that can be done is to give opium to relieve pain and tonics to keep up the general health, and to apply some disinfecting lotion to remove the foetor attending the fungating mass. After removal of the testicle an early recurrence of the disease in the lymphatic glands or in the internal organs is only too probable. Excision of the testicle.—The parts having been shaved, make an incision over the growth from the ex- ternal abdominal ring to the bottom of the scrotum. Free the cord from its connections, and having clamped and divided it, enucleate the testicle with a few touches of the knife, taking care not to cut through the scrotal septum, and so remove the other testicle at the same time, a danger best avoided by giving the sound testicle into the charge of an assistant. Next tie the spermatic artery in the stump of the cord, and the cremasteric and deferential arteries, if seen; and having secured the cord by a Spencer Wells' forceps in order to prevent it slipping into the inguinal canal, loosen the clamp, and tie any other vessel that may then bleed before finally releas- ing it. Atrophy of the testicle may be simply the result of old age ; or it may be due to—1, inflammation, especially that occurring during an attack of mumps; 2, interfer* 3 G 2