Ill TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. wounds, as by styptic colloid and collodion, are Tiseful in wounds about the face, and wbere the wound is small. Having closed the wound, the parts should be placed as far as is possible at absolute rest, and supported by firm but elastic pressure to ensure the deeper surfaces being in apposition. 5. Prevention of putrefaction^ fermentation, and infective jjrocesses occurring in the tuound.—Putrefaction and fer- mentation are best prevented by efficiently draining the wound, or by keeping the surfaces in contact by firm pressure, as there is then no material present in the wound wherein decomposition can occur. Antiseptics, viz., agents that destroy septic and infective organisms, are usually adopted as an extra precaution, and are especially necessary where thorough drainage or efficient pressure, as in some forms of compound fracture, wounds of joints, etc., cannot be employed. But we have to guard, not only against the decomposition of the discharges, but also against the entrance of infec- tive micro-organisms, conveyed by instruments, sponges, the surgeon's or nurse's hands, or by the air when an infectious case is in the ward. The greatest cleanliness therefore is necessary. All instruments should be care- fully cleansed after use before they are put away, and before being used again they should be sterilised by boiling them in water or a 1 per cent, salt solution, or by passing them through the flame of a spirit-lamp or placing them in the steam sterilizer. Whilst in use they should be placed in some antiseptic solution, as carbolic acid (1 in 20) or lysol (2 per cent.). Sponges except new ones had better not be used at all, but (lamgee's absorbent pads, or dabs of cotton-wool, which can be destroyed immediately after the operation. New sponges after cleansing should be kept in carbolic acid (1 in 20). The hands of the surgeon should be scrupulously clean, and further purified by dipping them into carbolic acid (1 in 40), or corrosive sublimate (1 in 1,000). Previous to operating, the parts should be shaved, if necessary, and washed with soap-and-water for some distance around where the wound is to be made, and afterwards with carbolic acid (1 in 20), or corrosive sublimate (1 in 1,000), and where greasy, with ether. An antiseptic dressing should then be applied till the patient is on the operating table. Before the dressing is removed towels wrung out in warm carbolic lotion (1 in 20) should be arranged around