DISEASES OE SPECIAL TlSStTES. 310 the direction of the subclavian arterjr; the bruit is trans- mitted towards the axilla; and the pulse at the wrist is diminished in volume and is aneurysmal. Such is a brief outline of the di:fferential diagnosis of these aneurysms; but there are many other signs due to the pressure of the aneurysm on the veins, nerves, oesophagus, trachea, &c., which have to be taken into account, and which it is evident the size of this work does not permit to be dis- cussed. Treatment.—When the aneurysm is aortic medical means alone must be relied on. When the innominate is involved, Macewen's method of scratching the interior of the sac with needles should certainly first be tried. This failing, medical means and pressure on the carotid or distal ligature of the carotid and subclavian arteries simultaneously may be employed. If these do not prove successful or are impracticable owing to the large size of the aneurysm, nothing is left but the desperate resort to galvano-puncture or the introduction of iron wire. When the carotid or subclavian is affected, Macewen's method and medical means may also in the first instance have due trial; afterwards, in the case of the carotid, distal compression or ligature may be tried; and in the case of the subclavian distal compression or ligature if practicable, direct pressure on the sac, or the terrible expedients of amputation at the shoulder-joint, ligature of the innominate, manipulation, galvano-puncture, in- jection of coagulants, or the introduction of iron wire. Carotid aneurysm at the root of the neck has just been alluded to. Aneurysm of the common trunk higher in the neck presents the ordinary signs of aneurysm, and in this situation has to be diagnosed from—1, simple dilatation of the artery at its bifurcation; 2, enlarged glands; 3, abscess or tumour over the artery; 4, pulsating goitre. In simple dilatation there is no bruit; in enlarged glands and tumours there is also no bruit, the pulsation is not expansile, and ceases when they are lifted up from the vessel; in abscess, in addition to the absence of the above signs, there is the history or presence of inflamma- tion ; in pulsating goitre the tumour moves up and down "with the larynx on deglutition. The treatment consists in pressure or ligature of the artery below the aneurysm, or if there is not room in this situation, distal ligature. Aneurysm oe the external and internal carotids requires no special mention. Pressure or ligature of the common carotid is the treatment generally indicated.