J^HACWtl'B Ot TME lOWEfe JAW. 381 done by forcible straightening to remedy the deformity (see Diseases of the Note), The lateral caitilages, if separated from the nasal bones, should be careduily re- placed, as if this precaution is neglected little can sub- sequently be done. Where, howeyer, they are meiely laterally deflected, the resulting defoimity may be corrected by the use of a retentiye apparatus. Fkacttjres of the upper jaw, or of the malar bone with depression of the zygomatic arch are occasionally met -with in severe smashes of the face. They are often impossible to rectify, and considerable deformity fre- quently remains. Although much comminution may occur, necrosis, in consequence of the great vascularity of these parts, rarely results. Fractuhe of the lower jaw is nearly always due to severe and direct violence. The fracture may extend through any portion of the bone, but commonly occurs a little to one or other side of the symphysis, the line of fracture being then usually vertical. In this situation, and indeed whenever the fracture involves the alveolar border, the mucous membrane of the gums is torn, rendering the fracture compound. It unites, however, nearly always like a simple fracture. There is not as a rule much displacement; but when, as occasionally happens, there is a fracture on both sides of the symphysis, the central portion is considerably depressed by the action of the genio-hyoid and digastric muscles. When the line of fracture extends through the angle or ascending ramus, the fragments are held in apposition by the masseter on the outer, and the internal pterygoid on the inner side. The fracture may occasionally occur through the coronoid process or the neck of the condyle. In the latter situation the displacement is peculiar, the condyle on the injured side being drawn forwards and in- wards by the external pterygoid muscle of that side, while the rest of the jaw is tilted over towards the injured side by the action of the opposite external pterygoid, which is thus left unopposed. This sign is of some importance in distiDguishing such a fracture from a partial dislocation in which the jaw is drawn over to the side opposite the dislocation. Signs,—The common form of fracture may be readily distinguished by pain on mastication, dribbling of saliva, some irregularity in the line of the teeth, unnatural mobility of the fragments, crepitus, and a rent in the mucous membrane over the fracture. Fracture