SUPRAPUBIC LITHOTOMY. 759 The after-treatment is very simple, and consists in little more than keeping the patient clean, and in regulating the secretions and diet. Adults may be placed on a mattress, with a hole opposite the perineum, for the pur- pose of letting the urine drain through. During the first few hours it is essential to see that the wound is free. Should the urine not escape from it, it is probably plugged with a clot of blood; the finger must then be passed into the wound, or if a tube has been introduced, this must be cleared by a probe or feather, or by syringing. Prom the third to the fifth day, in consequence of in- flammatory swelling, more or less of the urine is passed by the urethra, but as this swelling subsides, the greater part may again pass by the wound; more, however, is gradually passed by the natural way and less by the wound, as the latter slowly heals. Should secondary haemorrhage occur, the wound must be plugged ; or if this fails to arrest it, per chloride of iron or the actual cautery must be used. For the treatment of the other complication see Cellulitis, Peritonitis, &c. Median lithotomy.—Pass a staft:, grooved on its convexity, into the bladder, and with the left fore-finger in the rectum, feel for the apex of the prostate. Make an incision with a straight bistoury, with its back towards the rectum, in the median line of the perineum, beginning about half an inch in front of the anus. Insert the point of the knife into the groove of the staff just in front of the prostate, notching the apex, and cut a little upwards, opening the membraneous portion of the urethra. With- draw the knife, slightly enlarging the external incision upwards if necessary, and pass a long bulbous probe along the groove of the staff into the bladder. Withdraw the staff, and gently work the forefinger into the bladder along the probe, thus dilating the prostate. Extract the stone in the usual way. The operation is suitable—1. For small stones or foreign bodies; 2. When it is im- portant that there should be but little loss of blood; 3. For the removal of new growths ; and 4. For exploring the bladder in doubtful cases of disease. All the cutting is done entirely in the median line where no vessels exist; the deeper parts of the wound are merely dilated, not cut. SuPEAPUBic lithotomy consists in opening the bladder between the pubes and the peritoneal fold. It is the method that should be employed for the removal of very