288 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES* At times, however, a larger vessel may become plugged, when gangrene may ensue. As the atheromatous material is washed away by the blood, fibroid thickening of the external coat and sheath of the artery takes place opposite the base of the ulcer, so preventing perforation of the artery ; but as the new tissue is very inelastic it is liable to yield to the pressure of the blood and an aneurysm occur. 2. Instead of the patch undergoing fatty softening lime salts may be deposited in it. This secondary calcifica- tion must be distinguished from the primary calcification to be shortly mentioned. The intima may be continued over the calcareous patch, or it may break away, leaving it exposed to the blood current, thus constituting a nidus for the deposition of fibrin and the formation of a throm- bus, portions of which again in their turn may be washed away by the blood and form emboli. 3. The small-cell- infiltration in the inflamed patch instead of undergoing either of the former changes may advance to the pro- duction of fibrous tissue, and a dense fibroid thickening- result. The effects of chronic arteritis,—1. The artery may be- come dilated, elongated, and tortuous; 2, it may yield at the atheromatous patch, producing an aneurysm; and 3, it may rupture under violence. In addition to the above effects depending upon the loss of elasticity of the vessel, thrombosis and embolism may occur as already stated, and give rise to gangrene, aneurysm, or rupture. Signs.—Except in the superficial vessels, where atheroma is productive of rigidity and a tortuous condition of the artery, it gives no special evidence of its presence. Syphilitic arteritis. — This term is applied to a fibroid change in the arteries occurring during the later stages of syphilis. It is most common in the arteries of the brain. The inner coat is chiefly affected and becomes greatly thickened, so that the lumen of the vessel is almost or entirely obliterated. The change consists in an extensive infiltration of small round cells, which later become developed into an imperfect fibrous tissue. The outer coat is likewise implicated, but to a less extent, while the muscular coat either escapes, or is merely encroached upon by the cells infiltrating the inner coat. The disease is very chronic, and may terminate in thrombosis, or may lead to the formation of an aneurysm. Obliteratiye arteritis, so called, is a rare disease, characterized by great pain spreading up the course of