DISEASES OF REGIONS. 524 that it should be examined :—(1) by the unaided eye or by focal illumination ; (2) by the ophthalmoscope; (3) for acuteness of vision, fields of vision, colours, and tension. In all cases where practicable each observation on the one eye should be repeated on the other for comparison. (1.) Seating the patient in front of a window, or in a dark room with the lamp to the left and about two feet in front of him, direct and concentrate the light on his eye by a biconvex lens of about 2^ inches focal length {focal illumination). First look at the lids, and tell him to open and shut them; then, with the lids open, to execute the various complete in, out, down and up movements of the eye to test the extrinsic ocular muscles. Along the edges of the lids look for the puncta which ought to be apjDlied close to the ocular conjunctiva. Press near the inner canthus over the lachrymal sac to see if any discharge passes through the puncta. Evert the upper lid to examine its conjunctival surface by directing the patient to look down to the ground, laying a probe horizontally on the external surface of the lid and then taking hold of the lashes turn the lid over the probe. Pull down the lower lid to examine its conjunctival surface. The ocular conjunctiva should be transparent-looking and a few small vessels should be seen through it per- forating the white or bluish sclerotic. Just external to the inner canthus is a small greyish-red projection, the caruncle, and extending from it a pinkish fold, the plica semilunaris. The vessels seen in inflammations of the eye may be divided into the following :—1. The posterior conjunctival. These are generally brick-red in colour, tortuous, moveable with the conjunctiva, and disappear on pressure. 2. The snh-conjunctival are branches or radicles of the anterior ciliary vessels and are divided into the perforating and the episcleral. The perforating arteries stop about ^ inch from the corneal margin, and are well seen in glaucoma; the episcleral arteries form a pink zone of straight parallel vessels {circumcorneal zone) not disappearing on pressure, and are well marked in iritis and keratitis; the episcleral veins are dark, dusky looking, often in limited patches and are found in cyclitis, scleritis, glaucoma, &c. 3. The anterior conjunctival vessels are superficial branches of the anterior ciliary. They are bright red in colour, found near the corneal margin, and indicate superficial corneal mischief. Next examine the cornea, the depth and contents of