DISEASES OE REGIONS. "726 of strength, increasing pallor, and gradual wasting. The urine is passed.in large quantities, and is of low specific gravity. Albumen at first is absent, or only present in small quantities, and although later it may be increased in amount, it is often difficult to estimate in consequence of the pus, mucus, or blood which may be present, owing to the diseased bladder or other urinary trouble. Should these troubles not be relieved, the symptoms of the kidney affection become more marked; there is loss of appetite, a furred tongue, nausea, perhaps vomiting, increase of temperature at nights, a hot skin, thirst, and emaciation. This condition may last for months, when the symptoms may gradually subside if the primary trouble can be. removed ; or it may terminate in exhaustion and death ; or in an acute attack of suppurative nephritis. The treatment consists essentially in removing the cause, where this is practicable, and carefully avoiding all sources of irritation that may re-act through the nervous system on the kidney. Thus, all instrumentation must be done in the gentlest possible manner, and decomposi- tion of the urine prevented by washing out the bladder with antiseptic solutions. The patient at the same time should be kept in bed, and restricted to a non-stimulatmg and chiefly fluid diet; whilst hot flannels and occasionally^ dry cups should be applied to the loins. Suppurative or septic nephritis.—Under this head is included suppuration of the pelvis and of the substance of the kidney, since both, as a rule, are simultaneously affected, and the symptoms are similar or identical. Pyonephrosis is considered separately. Suppurative nephritis generally occurs suddenly in the course of long- standing disease of the lower urinary organs, attended with septic decomposition of the urine in the bladder. It is probably almost always due to the septic micro- organisms reaching the kidneys from the bladder by the ureters. It is usually preceded by simple interstitial nephritis. The symptoms, which frequently first come on after some operative procedure on the urethra or bladder, are usually ushered in by a rigor followed by sweating and fever. The tongue becomes dry and red; the lips and teeth covered with sordes; the appetite is lost; nausea, vomiting, or diarrhoea sets in, and the patient usually sinks into a typhoid state and dies. There is no oedema, and the uriiie usu^^lly continues abundant and loaded