377 TREPHINING THE SKULL, treatment consists in attempting to allay tlie inflammation of the brain, whicli is the cause of the hernia, by the means already described in Intracranial Inflammation. Formerly, pressure on the protrusion, shaving it off, and applying caustics, were the means employed, but they were not attended with success, and are now discarded as unscientific. Pressure would rather tend to cause an abscess or promote inflammation by keeping up tension. The hernia itself should be left alone, except when the inflammation has become chronic, when well-regulated pressure may possibly promote the absorption of in- flammatory products and the shrinking and recession of the mass. TuEPHiNiNG THE SKULL is indicated I—1. In all cases of punctured fracture. 2. In depressed fracture with symptoms of compression, whether simple or compound. 3. In localized extravasations of blood between the bone and dura mater. 4. In intracranial suppuration when the pus is circumscribed and situated between the bone and dura mater, in the subdural or subarachnoid space, or in the substance of the brain. 5. Eor the removal of a bullet lodged in an accessible situation in the brain. 6. In fracture of the inner table. 7. In epilepsy, mania, and continued headache following on head-injury. 8. For the removal of a cerebral tumour. 9. In micro- cephaly with idiocy. 10. In compound depressed fracture without symptoms, in which the fragments cannot be raised by the elevator, opinions differ as to the propriety , of trephining. If the depression is considerable, I think it ought to be done, as should the patient escape the im- mediate danger of intracranial inflammation, he is liable I to certain remote effects from the irritation of the de- pressed fragments, such as headache, epilepsy, mania, &c. (see Depressed Fracture, p. 360). T?Le operation.—If a wound of the scalp exists, it should be enlarged, other- wise a large semi-circular flap of the scalp should be turned down, so that when it is replaced after the opera- tion the trephine-hole is completely covered. The peri- cranium having been turned back from the bone, the trephine, with the pin protruded one-tenth of an inch, should be applied, and steadily worked, clearing the teeth from time to time with a feather or the brush provided for the purpose in the trephine-case. A. good groove having been formed in the bone, the pin should be withdrawn. When the diploe is reached, which may