TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 689 probably lead to the tearing of its walls. In cases of the above kind the treatment is clear; but when the intestine is black, ecchymosed, doughy, sticky, or coated with lymph, but not actually gangrenous, the impression of the stricture is well marked, and the flaid in the sac is of a dark colour, it becomes an anxious moment for the Surgeon to decide what to do with it, and much must be left to his own judgment in each individual case. As a general rule it may be said that when only a small knuckle of intestine is present, and although black has not lost its shining colour, and there is no appearance of ulceration at the seat of stricture, it should be replaced just within the ring, so that if it subsequently gives way the fsecal contents may escape externally; but that when the intestine is ecchymosed, doughy, &c., or it is feared that ulceration of the mucous coat may have already begun at the seat of stricture, and especially when a large coil is present it should be left in the sac. Some Surgeons, however, if in doubt always leave the intestine in the sac; others stitch the bowel to the parietal peritoneum, so as to leave the most doubtful part in the centre of the ring of sutures. If the gut gives way the fseces will then pass outwards. If the injured part recovers the gut will be left adherent by one surface to the inside of the abdominal wall. When the gut is clearly gangrenous^ it should be opened; and if extensively gangrenous, the dead portion cut away. So far most Surgeons are agreed, but what further should be done is still an open question. Some merely leave the gangrenous part in the sac or stitch the open ends of the gut to the wound. Others prolong the wound into the peritoneal cavity, draw down the gangrenous loop of intestine, protect the rest of the peritoneal cavity with sponges, cut the gangrenous part completely away, empty the distended intestine as much as possible, clamp both upper and lower portions with rubber tubing passed through a small incision in the mesentery to prevent further faecal soiling, irrigate with perchloride of mercury lotion (1 in 2000), restore the continuity of the gut by circular enterorrhaphy or by means of Senn's plates (see page 417), and replace the united intestine in the abdominal cavity. The best course to take, however, must depend in great part on the general condition of the patient. Should the intestine be accidentally wounded either in opening the sac, or, as more commonly happens, in w. Y Y