TUBEECLE AND TUBERCTJLOSIS. 53 come involved by the bacillus coming into contact witli them either in the breath or swallowed sputa \ yet the trachea, the stomach, and the upper part of the intestine generally escape. The bones and joints are frequent seats of the disease, which has a special predilection for the cancellous ends of the long bones and the short bones. The upper end of the femur and hip-joint, the ends of the femur and tibia forming the knee-joint, and the short bones and joints of the foot and hand are most often affected, the elbow-joint less often, and the upper end of the humerus and the clavicular joints but rarely. The scapula and ilium with the acetabulum may suffer, but the shafts of the long bones, the clavicle, and the ischium and pubes, apart from the acetabulum, escape. The bodies of the vertebrae are frequently attacked, while the laminae, with the spinous and transverse processes, remain free. The bones of the skull are rarely involved, those of the jaws and face never. Tuberculosis may occur in the skin and affect the glands, but lupus, which is believed to be a form of tuberculous disease, does not spread to the glands. The reason for tubercle aiffiecting any special organ or tissue is not known, but it is thought to depend on some previous lowering of vitality of the part, as a sprain of a joint, a blow on the testicle, &c. A general though brief account of tubercle has been here given to prevent repetition when treating of tuber- cular diseases of certain organs. As a surgical affection, it is chiefly met with in the bones, joints, testicle, lym- phatic glands, skin, larynx, and more rarely in the bladder and rectum. All that need here be said is, that such lesions are of a very chronic and indolent nature; that they are set up by very slight and apparently inadequate causes; that they exhibit a marked tendency to suppura- tion and progressive destruction or undermining of the tissues, and but little tendency to repair; that they are often productive of much scarring and deformity, as when they occur as abscesses in the neck; that they are gene- rally very obstinate and intractable as regards treatment; and that they may terminate in general dissemination of the tubercle through the body and death. The treatment should be both constitutional and local. Thus, the patient should be placed under as perfect hygienic conditions as possible, with residence at the sea- side, preferably Cromer or Margate, or where possible he may go a sea voyage. The diet should be nourishing