721 STRICTUBE OF THE RECTUM. degeneration; and are most common in cliildren; and (2) the hard or fibrous which, are more rare and generally occur in adults. Symptoms.—Polypi are the commonest cause of bleeding from the rectam in children, the blood escaping not only during but also after defsecation. When low down they cause straining, perhaps a mucous discharge, and pain after defsecation from being caught in the sphincter. When large they may produce prolapse or intussuscep- tion. Small polypi beyond the reach of the sphincter may cause no symptoms. They are usually detected by sweeping the finger well round the rectum, the examina- tion being best made after the bowels have been emptied and the polypus brought down by an enema. The treatment consists in ligature of the pedicle, fol- lowed by excision of the growth. They do not recur. YiLLOiJS TUMOURS of the rectum are rare and are most frequently met with in patients over forty years of age. They have a papillomatous structure, and spring from the mucous membrane. Erequent haemorrhages and the passage of a glairy mucous discharge are the chief signs. Eemoval is the treatment. They are apt to recur and then to become malignant. Stricture of the rectum may be divided into the simple and the malignant. 1. The simple or fibrous stricture may be caused by the fibroid contraction of inflammatory products in the mucous and submucous coats, or of cicatrices following simple, syphilitic, or dysenteric ulceration, by injury, or operation on the bowel, or it may be the result of pelvic inflammations {peri- or pari-metritis). Pathology.—The stricture is generally situated from one to two inches from the anus, but may occur at any part. It may involve only a narrow ring-like portion, when it is called annular; or it may include an inch or more of the gut, when it is sometimes spoken of as tubular. The strictured portion of the bowel consists in great part of fibrous tissue. The syphilitic variety is often combined with condylomata or ulceration about the anus, and the mucous membrane between the anus and the stricture is frequently ulcerated. The bowel above is generally dis- tended with fseces, the muscular coat hypertrophied, and the mucous membrane ulcerated; whilst, in the neigh- bourhood of the stricture, the coats are often so thin that the least force causes them to give way. Fistulse often w. 3 a