48 GEMRAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. result of this treatment, however, is at the best un- satisfactory. It has been proposed by Mr. Hutchinson, therefore, to amputate at a distance from the gangrene, through the thigh in gangrene of the foot, the objection to amputation in the neighbourhood being the liability of the flaps to slough, the risk of secondary haemorrhage, and the difficulty of securing the arteries. These dangers have probably, however, been much lessened since the introduction of antiseptics, and successful cases of ampu- tation through the thinnest part of the leg—a much less severe procedure in itself than amputation through the thigh—have been reported. Diabetic gangrene, as the name implies, occurs in persons the subject of diabetes. In some respects it resembles senile gangrene in that it usually occurs in moderately old people, starts in the lower extremity, frequently in the sole of the foot, and is generally the result of a trifling injury, and at times of a perforating ulcer. It spreads more rapidly, however, shows little tendency to be limited by a line of demarcation, and instead of being dry, generally remains moist. The local treatment is similar to that for senile gangrene, but ampu- tation as a rule is inadmissible on account of the diabetes, for which the usual remedies may be given, care being taken however in their employment not to lower the patient's strength. Eaynatjd's Disease is a peculiar form of spontaneous gangrene usually affecting symmetrically the fingers, toes, or more rarely the ears. It generally occurs in children or young persons who have previously suffered for a longer or shorter period from intermittent attacks of numbness and coldness of the extremities, generally brought on by cold weather {local syncope), followed later in many cases by blueness and congestion, accompanied by burning pain [local asphyxia), which, in its turn, shows a tendency to run into actual death of the part [gangrene)» The gangrene is usually of the dry kind, but in the toes and shins a bleb often forms, and the parts slough [moist gangrene). This condition is supposed to depend upon some disturbance of the vaso-motor nerve-centre inducing spasm of the arterioles, or in some cases upon a peripheral neuritis, but no organic lesion has yet been discovered. Haematinuria is frequently observed in association with it. It does not appear at present to have ended fatally. Treatment,-;—ThQ constant descending current, as recom-