17 INPLAMMATION^. In some cases local remedies alone will suffice, in others constitutional remedies will also be required. The local may be enumerated as rest, elevation of the part, cold, heat and moisture, local blood-letting, inci- sions, and astringents. These means should not be used indiscriminately; those that may at one period be of the greatest benefit, may at another produce the result we are trying to avoid. Rest is one of the most important means we possess in the treatment of surgical inflammation. It should be complete, and as far as possible both functional and phj^siological. Thus^ an inflamed joint should be placed on a splint, an inflamed eye receive no light, &c. Elevation of the part relieves swelling and tension by diminishing the arterial supply, and promoting venous return, and the draining olf by the lymphatics of the in- flammatory exudation. Thus, an inflamed hand should be placed in a sling, an inflamed foot raised on a pillow, &c. Cold, though a most powerful agent in controlling inflammation, is one that requires cautious and season- able application. It acts by causing contraction of the small arteries, and consequently diminishes the supply of blood to the part; it likewise controls the amoeboid move- ments of the leucocytes. At the same time when intense it lowers the vitality of the tissues and promotes adhesion of the corpuscles and stasis, and as exemplified by frost- bite may destroy the part. It is of the most service in the preventive treatment of inflammation, and for con- trolling the process in the early stages. Later, when the inflammation is fully established, it can only do mischief. Its action should be continuous; if applied intermittently it tends to increase the inflammation by the reaction which follows each application. It is best applied in the form of an ice-bag, or by irrigation with ice-cold water, or by Leiter's tubes. Heat and moisture act by causing a general dilatation of the capillaries and free flow of blood through the part. They are especially useful when the inflammation has become fully established, and suppuration is threatened. Under the latter circumstances they tend to localize the process, and bring the abscess to the surface. They may be applied in the form of linseed-meal poultices or hot fomentations to which opium and belladonna in some form may be added to soothe and relieve pain. Heat c