398 INJURIES OF BEGIONS. catlieter. The temperature varies; sometimes it may be lower than normal, but often it is considerably raised, even reaching as high as 107° shortly before death. Consciousness, unless any head-injury has been received at the same time, is not affected. The reflexes in the lower limbs are usually at first in abeyance, but may return if the patient does not succumb to the shock of the injury. If the reflexes remain quite lost the probabilities are that the conducting power of the cord has been com- pletely destroyed. If they return it is a sign that some power of conductivity is left in certain portions of the cord at the seat of injury. Death occurs, as a rule, from twenty-four hours to a few days from bronchial trouble ; but the patient, if the fracture is in the upper dorsal region, may linger from two to three weeks. The secondary troubles which are then generally met with are bedsores and chronic cystitis. 1. The bedsores occur in situations subjected to pressure, and depend in great part on the congestion and lowered vitality of the tissues induced by the impairment of the nerve-influence; but they may also to some extent be due to the soddening of- the. part with the urine and faeces from which it is very difficult to keep the patient free. 2. The chronic cystitis is pro- bably also due in part to impaired nerve-influence, and in part to slight injury in the passage of a catheter, or to the introduction by the catheter of a micro-organism— the micrococcus urese. The urine, which is at first acid, becomes ammoniacal from the conversion of the urea into carbonate of ammonia, and thick from the deposit of phosphates and the presence of ropy mucus. The in- flammation may then extend up the ureter to the kidney, where suppuration of the pelvis and substance of the kidney (pyelo-nephritis) may be set up. Such may be taken as a typical example of fracture of the spine as commonly met with in surgical practice. But the nature and gravity of the symptoms will depend upon the situation of the fracture, and the amount of injury to the cord. Thus in some cases of fracture there may be no paralysis: in others the paralysis may be incomplete, i.e., confined to loss of motion only, or to paralysis of one limb or one group of muscles, or to impairment of sensation over some limited area. Such cases, however, are much less common than that above described. Causes of death.—I. When the fracture is above the