ACTJTE PERIOSTITIS. 219 convenience is spoken of as periostitis, osteo-myelitis, and osteitis. Periostitis, or inflammation beginning in or chiefly affecting the periosteum, may be acute or chronic. 'Acute periostitis may occur (1) as a simple local, or (2) as a ditose and infective inflammation: the former being generally the result of some local injury, the latter of some severe constitutional dyscrasia. Acute simple periostitis is generally the result of a local injury, and occurs most frequently in the tibia, that bone being most exposed to injuries, as kicks, blows, &c. Pathology,—The inflammation is of the ordinary, simple kind, and usually terminates in resolution ; occasionally, however, suppuration occurs, attended by some superficial necrosis, or the inflammation may become chronic. Symptoms.—There is acute throbbing pain, increased on pressure, and worse at night. If the bone is superficial, as in the case of the tibia, there may be also local redness of the skin, oedema, heat, and evident swelling over the bone, followed, should suppuration occur, by fluctuation. Treat- ment,—Eest, elevation of the part, and the application of cold, with perhaps a few leeches, will usually suffice; but should suppuration threaten, hot boracic poultices should be put on, and a free incision made as soon as pus has formed. Opium may be required to relieve pain. Diffuse infective periostitis, sometimes known as acute necrosis," is always of a grave nature, as not only may it lead to the death of large portions of bone, but it may also terminate fatally from septicaemia or pyaemia. Cause.—It generally occurs in debilitated children following upon some slight injury, as a blow or fall upon the part. It is, however, probable that it depends upon some constitutional mischief, and that such local influences as injury, cold, &c., although they may act as slight exciting causes, have little or nothing to do with it. It also occurs as a sequela of the continued fevers. From the constancy with which micro-organisms (stapJiylo- cocci, streptococci) have been found in the pus, it is now generally believed to depend, chiefly or in part, in some way, on their presence in the system. Pathology.—The disease appears to begin generally, as here described, as an acute infective inflammation of the periosteum which rapidly spreads through the bone to the medulla; but some believe that it begins in the medulla, and thence spreads to the periosteum. In any case pus is rapidly