836 DISEASES OF REGIOKS. patient irritating the breast by constantly feeling it, the hypertrophy usually subsides. Of its exact patholo- gical condition I am not aware, but it appears probable that it is of a chronic inflammatory nature. TuMOUES OF THE BREAST.—The tumour by far the most frequently met with in this situation is the acinous carcinoma (scirrhus), which is due to the proliferation of the epithelium lining the acini or the small ducts. Certain of the connective-tissue tumours {fibromata, sarcomata)^ springing from the periacinous connective tissue, are also of frequent occurrence. They seldom, however, occur pure, but are nearly always mixed with elements re- sembling the tissue of the breast- itself {adenomatous tissue), and hence are spoken of as adeno-fibroma, adeno- sarcoma, adeno-myxoma. Whether these adenomatous elements are the normal breast-tissue, which has become surrounded and enclosed in the fibrous or sarcomatous growth as the case may be, or whether it is an abortive formation of the gland-tissue, is not agreed upon by pathologists. Most, however, believe that it is a new formation. More rarely the gland-tissue may constitute the chief bulk of the tumour {pare adenoma). The tumours composing this class were formerly spoken of collectively as chronic mammary glandular tumours. At times cysts are developed in connection with them, and they are then designated cystic adeno-fibroma, cystic adeno- sarcoma, cystic adeno-myxoma, &c. Various other forms of tumour, viz., tumours composed of fat, cartilage, vessel-tissue, nerve-tissue, &c., have also been met with in the breast, but are exceedingly rare. Pure adenomata are very rare. They occur as cir- cumscribed ovoid tumours surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue. On section they appear smooth, lobed, white or tinged with pink, with here and there small cavities and occasionally distinct cysts. Their general characters have already- been given under Tumours, All that need here be repeated is that they consist of acini and ducts surrounded by a small amount of vascular con- nective tissue; in short, that they resemble the breast preparing for lactation, save that the acini and ducts do not form distinct lobules with an excretory duct, as in the lactating breast. Further, the epithelium does not pene- trate the membrana propria and grow into the inter- tubular and inter-acinous connective tissue, a point of importance as distinguishing them from carcinoma.