INJURIES OF BEGIONS. a friction sound may sometimes be heard, from the rubbing of the brain and pia mater on the sharp fragments. When a fracture is situated over the frontal sinuses there may be emphysema from escape of air into the connective tissue, or if the fracture is compound air may be forced out of the wound on blowing the nose. The treatment of fracture of the vault will necessarily vary according to the nature of the fracture and of any cerebral complications that may be present. The general indications are to prevent inflammation of the brain and its membranes, and to relieve any existing brain compli- cation. Thus the patient should be placed at perfect rest in a darkened room, every source of cerebral irritation avoided, an ice-bag applied to the shaven head, the bowels acted on by a calomel purge, and the diet restricted to slops. When the fracture is compound every care should be taken to render the wound aseptic, and to promote healing by the first intention. 1. In fissured fracture uncompli- cated by cerebral mischief little more will be required ; but when symptoms of cerebral compression are present the question of trephining may be raised, and will turn upon the probable nature of the cerebral lesion (see Compression of Brain), 2. In c^epressec? fracture the treat- ment will differ according as the fracture is simple or compound, and according as symptoms of local compres- sion of the brain are or are not present. In the simple form, unless the depression is deep and there are signs of local compression, no operative interference should be undertaken. In the compound form, any fragment found loose or penetrating the membranes of the brain should be removed, or if slightly depressed, raised, provided the elevator can be readily inserted beneath it. If a frag- ment is deeply depressed and cannot be raised by the elevator the trephine had better be applied. When, however, the depression is but slight, and the fragments are interlocked, as in pond and gutter fractures, the case, unless there are signs of local compression of the brain, should, as a rule, be left to nature. The patient, however, should be carefully watched lest inflammation supervene, on the first signs of which the depressed bone should be removed by the aid of the trephine. In both the simple and compound varieties the depressed bone, if it is apparently causing compression of the brain, must be raised by the elevator or by means of the trephine. It may here be remarked that some Surgeons recommend