410 always attended with sliock which, may be severe, and in some instances has been fatal, probably from injury to the solar plexus. The signs of a simple contusion are pain, ecchymosis, tenderness and swelling, with a varying amount of shock. A ruptured rectus will be indicated by pain on putting the muscle into action, and the presence of a gap, and later of a swelling from the effusion of blood. A blood-tumour will be known by its sudden occurrence, and absence of signs of inflammation. Treat- ment.—The patient should be treated as if he had sus- tained a grave injury, since it is impossible at first to say that such is not the case. Thus, he should be placed at absolute rest in bed, hot fomentations applied to the abdomen and hot bottles to the extremities, and opium given internally; whilst for precaution's sake for the first twelve or twenty-four hours nothing should be given by the mouth or only small quantities of iced milk. Where there is rupture of the rectus the parts should be approxi- mated as much as possible by position. If a blood- tumour forms cold should be applied, but it should on no account be opened, as the blood will nearly always in time be absorbed. Lacebation of the peeitoi^eijm may occur from a blow or crush of the abdomen without injury of the viscera, and may be complicated when a large vessel has been ruptured by extravasation of blood into the peritoneal cavity or sub-peritoneal tissue. There are no special signs of this injury; but restlessness, a sensation of sinking, yawning, an anxious countenance, coldness and blanching of the surface when complicated by haemorrhage, with an absence of vomiting and often of pain, are said to indicate it. Peritonitis nearly always quickly supervenes. Treat- ment,—Like that of peritonitis. SuppuEATiON AND abscess may follow on any injury of the abdominal walls, or extravasation of urine; or may be due to the breaking down of a blood-tumour or syphilitic gumma, or to disease of the bones forming the walls of the abdomen or pelvis. The suppuration may be acute or chronic, superficial or deep. When deep it is very apt to be ditose, and extend along the muscular planes or between the peritoneum and transversalis. When superficial, except as the result of extravasation of urine, it is generally circumscribed and often confined to the sheath of the rectus. Signs,—The acute form is attended with the general and local symptoms of inflammation.