412 INJURIES O'F HEGIOKS. cover. Or after a few days the peritoneal covering may give way and peritonitis ensue. 2. Iq rupture of the spleen the signs are similar, save that the pain is referred to the left side, and there may be increase of the splenic dulness, and perhaps fracture of the ribs in that region. 3. Eupture of the stomach is attended with extreme collapse, and if not rapidly fatal, with intense pain in the region of the stomach, and vomiting of blood, followed by peritonitis. 4. In rupture of the intestines, in addition to the intense pain radiating over the abdomen, there may be vomiting, first of the contents of the stomach, then of bile, and tben of altered blood; blood in the stools; tympanites with dulness in the flanks ; and, later, peritonitis, o. When a kidney is ruptured there will probably be a history of a blow or ottier injury of the loin, increased frequency of micturition, blood-stained urine, urinary extravasation in the loin, pain and signs of bruising in the lumbar region, retraction of the testicle, and, later, pus in the urine, and signs of deep-seated suppuration {perinephritic abscess) or peritonitis. 6. Eupture of the ureter may give rise to a fluctuating retro- peritoneal swelling containing urine. Treatment.—Whatever viscus is ruptured, perfect rest, and the administration of opium, or subcutaneous injec- tions of morphia, are imperative. In rupture of the liver, spleen, or kidney, ice may be applied over the part, and gallic acid or ergot given internally to restrain the hsemorrhage. Stimulants must be avoided, but fluid nourishments should be administered in very small quantities at a time. In rupture of the stomach or intestines the abdomen should be opened, the rent sewn up by a Lembert's suture, and the peritoneal cavity thoroughly cleansed by irrigation with a weak antiseptic solution. Subsequently the patient should be kept under the influence of opium, and nothing whatever be given by the mouth for the first few days. Nutrient enemata, if the strength flags, should be administered. In rupture of the kidney an incision in the loin or nephrectomy may become necessary. The swelling following rupture of the ureter may require tapping or free drainage. Wounds of the abdomen may be divided into the penetrating and non-penetrating, according as they do or do not involve the peritoneal cavity. NoN-PENETKATiNa WOUNDS should be treated like wounds in other situations, especial care, however, being