LIGATURE OF THE PENIS. same period emptied by the catheter. The patient should lie perfectly quiet on her back with the legs tied together, and the knees over a pillow. The deep sutures should be removed at the end of a week, the parts in the meanwhile being kept clean by gentle syringing with an antiseptic lotion. The bowels should be opened by an enema at the end of a week or ten days, and the patient should keep her bed for at least three weeks. Where the posterior or anterior wall of the vagina is much prolapsed, a wedge-shaped piece of mucous membrane may be removed, and the edges of the incision brought together by suture. Injuries oe the scrotum and testicle.—Wounds of the scrotum and penis are rare. They readily heal in consequence of their abundant blood-supply. Contused wounds of the scrotum are often attended with much extravasation of blood, giving the parts a black and swollen appearance, and are apt to be followed by sloughing. Should such threaten, free incisions must be made. Extravasation of blood into the tunica vaginalis {hcematocele), and inflammation of the testicle {orchitis)^ both of which may follow a blow or other injury of the parts, are described under Diseases of the Testicle, Ligature of the penis.—A piece of string is some- times tied round the penis by children either in play, or to prevent themselves wetting the bed. Grreat swelling in front of the constriction ensues, and if the cause is not recognized and removed, the string will soon cut deeply into the penis, and may even divide the urethra. Foreign bodies in the male urethra and bladder. —Pieces of slate-pencil, beads, and the like, are some- times passed by boys into their urethra, and not infre- quently a piece of wax bougie, or damaged gum-elastic or black catheter is broken off during catheterization. An attempt should be made to remove the foreign body by manipulation with the fingers, or by the introduction of various urethral forceps, or by asking the patient to first close the meatus with the finger and thumb, to make a forcible attempt to pass water, and then suddenly to relax his hold. If the forceps are used the urethra should be grasped, if practicable, behind the foreign body, lest the latter be pushed back into the bladder. Tailing to remove the body by any of these means, it may be pushed back into the bladder, broken up by a lithotrite, and removed by the evacuator, or, if soft, grasped with the F F