80 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SUHGICAL DISEASES. the lymphatics, as in carcinoma), a fact which may probably be explained by the above^-'mentioned relation of the vessels to the cells. 5. The secondary growths, when dissemination occurs, are, as a rule, like the primary, and are most frequent in the lungs. 6. Sarco- mata grow by invading the surrounding tissue, and generally return locally after removal, probably because some portion of infiltrated tissue has been left. 7. They do not, as a rule, affect the lymphatic glands, except when they occur as primary tumours in such glands, or when they grow, as pointed out by Mr. Butlin, in the testis and tonsil, when implication of the glands is the rule rather than the exception. 8. They are of most frequent occurrence in youth and early middle life. 9* Their cut section, when fresh, does not yield a milky juice like that obtained on scraping a carcinoma. In their simplest form sarcomata consist of small round cells resembling leucocytes, embedded in a very scanty amount of homogeneous intercellular substance traversed by delicate loops of capillary vessels; in fact they so closely resemble the granulation-tissue of inflammation as to be microscopically indistinguishable from it. In the higher forms the cells become elongated and of a spindle shape, and the intercellular substance may show an attempt at fibrillation; or fibrification, chondrification or ossification may ensue, and indeed in some instances may proceed to such an extent that the whole tumour appears composed of fibrous tissue, cartilage or bone, and it may only be at the growing edge that the sarcomatous elements are discoverable. Notwithstanding such changes the tumour will continue to display its malignancy in that it still invades the surrounding tissues, or becomes disseminated through internal organs. Sarcomata that have thus undergone ossification, are often spoken of as ossifying sarcomata. Ossification, however, is seldom met with except in sarcomata in connection with bone, and although it may then occur in all varieties, is most common in the spindle-celled and mixed forms. The new bone spicula usually grow into the tumour at right angles to the shaft of the bone, and are surrounded by sarcoma tissue; whereas in the true osteomata the bone spicula are parallel to the shaft, and are surrounded by cartilage or periosteum. Sarcomata may be divided into four chief groups (a) the