DISEASES OE REGIONS. 660 irregularly. The vomiting is gastric or bilious, and is attended with violent retching. • 2. In internal strangulation the attack is very sudden, and is probably attributed to a strain; the pain is intense, and is referred to one spot, or to the umbilicus ; vomiting comes on early; the constipation is sudden; there is no desire to def secate; the urine is scanty; there is no visible peristalsis; no tumour can be felt; there is no haemor- rhage from the bowel; and no tenesmus. There is pro- bably a history of some affection which might produce bands of adhesions, as peritonitis, typhoid fever, or a former hernia; or there may have been previous attacks of abdominal obstruction with intervals of perfect health. 3. In volvulus, the signs are similar to the foregoing, but if anything still more severe. 4. In intussusception, when acute, there is a discharge of mucus and blood from the anus; the abdomen is not much distended; the abdominal parietes are usually lax, and through them a sausage-shaped tumour, doughy to the feel, hardening on handling, and perhaps changing its position from time to time, may be detected; and the invaginated bowel can possibly be felt in the rectum. Collapse soon ensues. When chronic, there may have been attacks of localized pain lasting for months before stran- gulation occurs, the patient having been in good health in the intervals. There is straining and tenesmus; the constipation is not complete; vomiting is absent or intermittent; the distension is not marked ; and collapse does not come on till the end. The tumour will have characters similar to those mentioned above. 5. In stricture the patient is usually old or middle- aged ; the symptoms come on very insidiously; there are alternating attacks of constipation and diarrhoea; the constipation gradually becomes more and more pro- nounced; the motions are probably lumpy {scybalous), pipe-like, or flattened; dyspepsia is complained of; the pain is diffused and depends upon the distension of the abdomen; the distension comes on slowly, and is greatest in the flanks ; peristalsis is visible; the urine is copious ; the pulse quiet; and vomiting only occurs late in the case. Having diagnosed the case as one of stricture, the next point to determine is whether it is situated in the sigmoid flexure or rectum, and consequently that opening the de- scending colon in the left loin or the sigmoid flexure in the left groin will be well above the stricture; or whether