158 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. specific virus into the blood. The vims may be derived from the body of another patient who is suffering from or has died of the disease, and may be conveyed by the hands of the surgeon or the nurse, imperfectly cleaned instru- ments, sponges, &c. The minutest quantity of the poison appears to be sufficient. Pathology.—Th.Q ;post-mortem appearances are similar to those of f-apreemia. There is a like condition of congestion of the nerve-centres, gastro-intestinal tract and viscera, with petechiae beneath the serous membranes, and stain- ing of the vessels and tissues. Micro-organisms, both micrococci and bacilli, however, are found in the blood. The serous cavities often contain blood-stained serum, and pleurisy and pneumonia may at times be present. The spleen is generally greatly congested and enlarged. The symptoms are also similar to those of saprsemia; indeed, it is often impossible to differentiate between them. Septicaemia, however, may be suspected when there is evidence of infection from some source, or the wound is of such a size as to render it impossible for the amount of septic matter necessary to set up septic intoxi- cation to be formed in it. It would, moreover, appear probable that the two diseases may at times coexist in the same subject. Septicaemia begins with a distinct rigor, which may be repeated, followed by a temperature of 103° to 104° or higher. The symptoms, the chief of which are headache, nausea, vomiting, delirium, and sometimes diarrhoea, may run the same rapid course as in saprsemia, the j^atient passing into a state of collapse; or they may be more chronic and less severe in degree though similar in kind, whilst leucocytosis and petechial eruptions of the skin, or bronchitis, pneumonia, pleurisy, or pericarditis may supervene. Treatment.—Little can be done in the way of curative treatment beyond preventing the introduction of more poison by taking the same ioisal means to disinfect the wound as were mentioned under saprsemia. The same good effects, however, must not be expected, as the poison once introduced multiplies indefinitely, and hence the disease is almost invariably fatal. Large doses of quinine or salicylic acid or sulphite of potash, however, may be given, whilst the strength should be supported by fluid nourishment and stimulants. Pyemia is distinguished from septicaemia by the formation of secondary [metastatic) abscesses in various