84 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF StlUGICAL DISEASES. degeneration, blood-extravasation with the formation of blood-cysts, and ulceration. Usual seats,—The inter- muscular fasciae, periosteum, and breast. Signs and diagnosis.—The small-spindle-celled sarco- mata, when occurring in the fasciae and subcutaneous tissue, appear as moderately firm, or at times as softer growths, unattended with signs of inflammation unless inyolving the skin. They recur in situ after removal, but do not as a rule become disseminated. The large- spindle-celled forms resemble the round-celled, from which they cannot be distinguished before removal. Both varieties are more especially referred to under Diseases of Bone, Treatment.—The small-spindle-celled variety should, where practicable, be freely and widely removed. The treatment of the large-spindle-celled is like that of the round-celled. (c.) The G-IANT-CELLED or MYELOID SARCOMATA nearly always occur in connection with bone, and will be more fully described in the section on Diseases of Bone. They are usually of slow growth, and are amongst the least malignant of the sarcomata, especially when occurring in the interior of bone. After removal, however, they have been followed by the more malignant forms. Structure.—They consist of spindle or round cells, amongst which are found large irregularly-shaped masses of protoplasm, containing often as many as thirty or forty oval, highly-refracting, distinct nuclei. These masses of nucleated protoplasm are known as giant or myeloid cells, and resemble those found in the marrow of the foetus. The microscopic appearance is seen in Pig. 14. Myeloid sarcomata vary from a firm or fleshy to a soft or jelly-like consistency, and are neither elastic nor tough. On section they appear uniformly smooth, succulent, shining, semi-translucent, but not fibrillated, of a livid crimson or maroon colour not unlike the muscular tissue of the mammalian heart, and often blotched with brighter patches of pink or darker red due to blood-extravasation. Secondary changes.—Chondrification sometimes occurs, but ossification is rare. Blood-cysts are very common, from the giving way of some of the numerous thin-walled vessels. Usual seats,—In the interior of the ends of the long bones, especially the lower end of the femur and upper