864 APPENDIX. to tlie humeral attaclinieiit of the latter muscle, which is then divided. The incision is next carried with a gentle curve through the lower fibres of the deltoid towards the posterior border of the axilla. A second incision is then made through the skin and fat only, from the point where the straight incision terminated across the inside of the arm to meet the incision at the outer part. The outer flap is next dissected up with the trunk of the posterior circumflex artery, the head freed from its connections, disarticulated, and the remaining soft parts cut through on the axillary aspect, the axillary artery being divided last of all. Amputations of the arm and forearm are usually per- formed by double skin-flaps and circular division of the muscles. The circular method, however, or amputation by single or double transfixion or by Teale's method, may be employed. Amputation at the wrist may be performed by two short flaps, by a long palmar flap, or by an external flap taken from the thumb. In the double-flap method the incision is commenced half an inch above the styloid process of the radius or ulna. The flaps should be cut square, with rounded angles, and about two inches in length. The joint should be opened on the dorsal aspect, and on the completion of the disarticulation the styloid processes of the radius and ulna sawn oif. The thumh at the carpo-metacarpal joint may be ampu- tated by transfixion or by an oval incision. In the trans- fixion method the point of the knife in operating on the right side is entered at the web of skin between the first and second metacarpal bones, and made to emerge on the palmar aspect of the carpo-metacarpal joint. A palmar flap is then cut from the tissues forming the ball of the thumb, and the knife drawn obliquely across the back of the thumb from one extremity of the flap to the other. In operating on the left side, the oblique incision across the back of the thumb is first made, then the point of the knife is thrust down through the web and made to transfix as on the right side. In the oval or circular method, the knife is entered midway between the base of the meta- carpal bone and the styloid process of the radius, and the incision carried obliquely along the dorsum of the meta- carpal bone to the first phalanx, and then round the palmar surface and back again to the former incision. The fingers may be amputated by double flaps or by a