840 DISEASES OF REGIONS. lated, usually painless growths, hard in some places and soft and fluctuating in others, and often of large size. The veins over them are enlarged, but the skin is not adherent, the nipple is not retracted, and the glands as a rule are not aftected. They commonly grow slowly, but at times rapidly, and seldom become disseminated. Their chief distinguishing characteristic is the presence of one or more prominent fluctuating cysts in the tumour. Should a fungus protrude it may be distinguished from carcinoma by the non-implication of the skin around, non-adherence of the growth to the side of the chest, and the absence of the other signs of carcinoma above pointed out. Eemoval of the breast is the proper treatment. Cysts.—The cysts met with most frequently in the breast are the serous cysts, and certain of the retention cysts. Serous cysts are formed in the breast, as in other situations by the distension with fluid of the lymphatic spaces of the connective tissue (see Serous cysts). The retention cysts that occur in the breast may be divided into the galactoceles, which are produced by the dilatation of the galactophorous ducts, and the glandular cysts, due to the distension of the smaller ducts and acini. The former contain a milk-like fluid, or when, as occasionally happens, the watery parts have been absorbed, an in- spissated caseous material. The glandular contain a yellowish or brownish-yellow mucoid fluid, sometimes blood-stained, and at times intracystic papillary growths, formed by the ingrowing of the cyst-walls. When they occur in elderly people they are spoken of as involution cysts. Their frequency in chronic lobular inflammation of the breast has already been alluded to. Signs.—Cysts in the breast form painless, tense or semifluctuating, smooth, rounded tumours, evidently con- nected with the breast tissue. Serous cysts may occur in any part of the breast. They are often very tense and hard, and breasts with such in them have been removed for cancer. Hence the valuable rule of making a pre- liminary incision if in doubt as to the nature of the tumour. The galactoceles occur during lactation; they are situated near the nipple, from which a milk-like fluid may sometimes be squeezed out on pressing the cyst. They are soft and fluctuating, and usually single, form quickly, and may attain a large size. Glandular cysts occur chiefly in women of from thirty-five to fifty. They are tense and painless, form slowly, may occur