DISEASES or REGIONS. 642 soon become involved. In the bodies it generally starts as a rarefying osteitis in the actively-growing layer of bone which exists nnder the epiphysial cartilages and periosteum. The inflammatory changes that ensue are similar to those already described in rarefying osteitis of cancellous bone. The red gelatinous inflammatory material or granulation-tissue invades both the body of the vertebra and the intervertebral cartilages, and may then attack the -vertebrae above and below. Not infre- quently several of the vertebrae are affected independently by the disease at the same time. In this granulation- tissue non-vascular areas, presenting the appearance of | the tubercle nodules already described, have been found, and tubercle bacilli have in some cases been demonstrated in them. At this stage the disease may cease, the granu- lation-tissue become converted into bone, and no angular deformity result. More commonly, however, the granula- tion-tissue, having destroyed the bone-trabeculse, under- goes caseation, and breaks down into pus, producing a spinal abscess; or it may be absorbed without the forma- tion of any pus [dry caries) ; or if the process has been very acute, large portions of the cancellous tissue may die en masse, forming sequestra, which may keep up the morbid process for years (caries necrotica). In any of these cases angular deformity will be the result, as partly by its own weight, and partly by the dragging of the abdominal muscles, the upper portion of the spine thus undermined falls forward, and necessarily forms an angle with the lower portion at the seat of the disease. In consequence of the patient's efforts to hold himself upright the normal lumbar and cervical curves, when the disease occurs in the dorsal region, will be greatly in- creased; the angular projection is thus thrown backwards (Fig. 246), and the well-known hump-back produced. When the disease occurs in the lumbar region there is no means of restoring the balance, and the patient is com- pelled to stand or walk with the body inclining forwards, and, in severe cases, nearly at a right angle with the pelvis. When the disease ^begins in the intervertebral fibre-cartilages, it probably starts as a low form of de- structive inflammation consequent upon a slight laceration or other injury of the cartilage. But however it begins it soon involves the adjacent bones, destroying them along with the cartilage 'and leading to the angular de- formity. The spinal canal, situated as it is in the posterior