506 DISEASES OF REGIONS. lutions ; (e) movements of the mouth and tongue, a lesion about the lower end of the fissure of Eolando. An epi- leptiform movement starting in one of these parts may be followed by loss of power in the part for some time after the fit. 2. Aphasia indicates a lesion of Broca's convolu- tion. 3. Loss of half the fields of vision in both eyes points to a lesion of the angular gyrus of the opposite side to the lost fields of vision. 4. Loss of hearing suggests a lesion of the upper two tempero-sphenoidal lobes. 5. The aid to localization which may be derived from the involve- ment of the cranial nerves has already been mentioned under Injuries of the Head (p. 353). Where, from a con- sideration of the symptoms, a tumour or new growth is believed to be fairly circumscribed and in an accessible situation, the skull should be trephined, a sufficient portion of the bone removed, to fully expose the growth, by a Hey's saw, Hoffman's or Keen's forceps, or the surgical engine, and the growth cut away by making perpendicular incisions and raising it by means of a sharp spoon. The removal of a portion of the cortex will be followed by loss of function of the area removed, but this to a great extent will be regained by the aid of the surrounding areas, especi- ally as regards the coarser movements. The finer move- ments of the fingers and thumb will not be completely regained; hence in this region the removal of cortex should be as limited as is consistent with success. Para- sitic cysts should be drained. See Trephining, p. 377. EOCAL EPILEPSY, GENERAL PARALYSIS, CEPHALALGIA. In focal epilepsy, that is epilepsy without obvious gross lesion, when the fits become very frequent, for example more than one an hour, and the mental processes are becoming further impaired, the focus in the cortex repre- senting the initial movements may be exposed, the exact spot for the initial movements found by exciting the brain with the Faradic current, and this area of the cortex excised. After such an operation a diminution in the number of fits as well as an improvement in the health of the patient may be expected. In general paralysis trephining in a few cases has been of some benefit in the early stages of the disease. Thus the hallucinations have disappeared and the patient has so far improved as to be fit to be at liberty. In severe cephalalgia incapacitating the patient for work or preventing sleep, trephining may give relief. In such cases an exostosis, a spiculum of bone, an enlarged Pacchionian body, or a fibrous tumour or cyst of the dura