IIG GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. and erysipelas. The effects of a wound received in dis- section, or in post-mortem inspection, will depend in some degree upon the health of the operator; if strong and vigorous he is better able to resist the toxic effects than when debilitated by prolonged study or work in a hospital ward. On the other hand, persons acclimatized to the dissecting or post-mortem room are less liable to be affected than those who have but recently been engaged there. The signs^ as might be expected from what has been said above, vary considerably, depending, as they do, upon the nature of the poison received from the corpse and the previous state of the operator's health. Thus: 1. A pustule may form at the seat of inoculation, and, after breaking and scabbing, leave a raised, indolent, painful red sore, which may exist for months in spite of treatment. 2. The scratch or wound may become in- flamed, the superficial, and, perhaps, the deep lymphatics implicated, and the axillary glands enlarged and painful, this condition being attended by sharp constitutional disturbance, often preceded by a rigor. Suppuration generally occurs at the seat of inoculation, and sometimes also in the axillary glands. The prognosis is usually good. 3. With or without the local signs of the preceding form, severe constitutional symptoms set in, preceded by a rigor, and rapidly assume a typhoid character. Diffuse suppuration occurs in the axillary glands, and may spread to the neck and side of the chest. The prognosis is very unfavourable, the patient often dying in from one to three weeks, or only recovering after a tedious con- valescence, and then, probably, with a broken constitu- tion. 4. Diffuse cellular, or cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas is set up at the seat of inoculation, attended with the usual constitutional symptoms of these affections, and may rapidly spread up the limb and terminate in gan- grene and death. The axillary glands in this form are not usually affected. 5. In addition to the local suppuration, a pysemic state, with the formation of metastatic abscesses in various tissues and organs, some- times occurs. Treatment.—Immediately on its infliction the wound should be sucked, and cleansed by a stream of cold water, and bleeding encouraged and absorption prevented by tightly binding the part above the wound. Where the corpse is recent and death is known to be the result of some infective disease, the wound should be washed in