BIHECT IKGTTINAL HERKIA. 699 2, superficial and deep fascia; 3, intercolumnar fascia; 4, transversalis fascia ; 5, subperitoneal fat; and 6, perito- neum forming the sac. When the conjoined tendon is protruded in front of the hernia, this of course constitutes an additional covering, and will then be found between the intercolumnar and transyersalis fasciae. It will thus be seen that the coverings of the direct hernia difPer from those of the oblique, in the absence in the former of the cre- masteric fascia, and in the substitution of the transversalis for the infundibuliform fascia. The spermatic cord with its coverings from the cremasteric and infundibuliform fascia lies to the outer side. From what has been said above it will be seen that the epigastric artery is situated on the inner side of the neck of the sac in the oblique; on the outer side in the direct. The stricture when the hernia is strangulated will be situated at the external abdominal ring or at the aperture in the conjoined tendon through which the hernia has passed. Two varieties of direct inguinal hernia are described according as the protrusion takes place internal or ex- ternal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, but are not of sufficient importance to be described here. Signs and diagnosis of inguinal hernia.—There is a swelling in the inguinal region having the general characters of hernia already given. When incomplete the swelling will be in the groin, and has to be chiefly distin- guished from enlarged inguinal glands, a femoral hernia, encysted hydrocele of the cord, non-descended testicle, abscess in the inguinal canal, and, in rare instances, from 1 fatty and other tumours of the cord. When it is complete^ I i.e., has passed into the scrotum, the diagnosis has to be made from hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, solid tumours of the testicle, and varicocele. 1. In enlarged glands the canal is free, the glands are felt in front of it, and some cause is present to account for their enlargement. 2. In femoral hernia the swelling is external to the spine of the pubes, the neck of the hernia is below I Poupart's ligament, the inguinal canal is free but the hernia can be felt through its front wall, and to return it pressure must be made in a direction downwards, backwards, and then upwards. In inguinal hernia, on I the contrary, the swelling is internal to, or covers the I spine of the pubes; the neck is above Poupart's ligament; 1 the inguinal canal is occupied by it; and to return it I pressure must be made upwards and outwards. 3. In