INTLAMMATIOlSr. 5 tion; whilst more recently still it lias been ascribed in chief part to the proliferation of the connective-tissue and other cells in the inflamed area, the leucocytes being thought to play only a subordinate part and sooner or later to undergo disintegration or absorption. Erom whatever source these cells are derived, among them may soon be seen numerous delicate capillary loops, which have been formed from the old capillaries in and around the inflamed area. To this vascularized tissue the name of inflammatory new formation or granulation tissue is given. When the cells and liquid escape on a free sur- face, the fibrin with the entangled cells forms a so-called false membrane. 2. Changes in the fixed elements of the tissues,—When the mesentery is examined after inflammation has existed a short time, the cells of the original tissue are found to be proliferating. The nuclei of the endothelial cells divide, and the daughter cells thus produced lose their endothelial characters and become pear-shaped and larger than the escaped leucocytes surrounding them. The con- nective-tissue cells are believed to divide and proliferate in like manner. Thus, in the earlier stages of inflam- mation, two kinds of cells may be found—a number of small round cells, leucocytes, which have escaped from the vessels, and amongst them larger cells, which exhibit amoeboid movements on a warm stage, and are now looked upon as being derived in the way above mentioned from the original tissue cells. These large cells are believed by many recent pathologists to continue to divide and multiply, and to form in chief parts the cells of the inflammatory new formation or granulation tissue. They are called fibro-blasts. The escaped leucocytes are sup- posed, by the supporters of this view of the formation of granulation tissue, to act the part of scavengers, to eat up and remove effete and dead tissues, and destroy in this way any micro-organisms that may be present {phagocytosis) and then in their turn to undergo degeneration and absorption. By some pathologists the large amoeboid cells formed from the connective tissue cells are believed to absorb the leucocytes which have already done their part in eating up the devitalized tissues and micro- organisms. The large cells are thus called macrophages, the small cells or leucocytes microphages. Terminations or inflammation.—We have already seen that before coagulation has taken place and the