TEACTtTRE OF-THE BASE OF THE SKTTLL. 363 mucous membrane of the pharyngeal vault, also come from the nose or mouth. 2. Blood may escape from the same parts and by the same channels but has not the like diagnostic value, since bleeding from the ear, and especially from the nose, may occur from causes other than fracture. Still when blood escapes in considerable quantities, and for some time after the injury, it is when combined with other evidence of severe cerebral mischief a sign of importance. It should not be forgotten that blood coming from the nose or roof of the pharynx may be swallowed and afterwards vomited or passed per rectum. 3. Effusion of blood under the ocular conjunctiva, and ecchymosis about the mastoid process and sub-occipital region, are signs of less value; the former may indicate fracture of the anterior, and the latter fracture of the posterior fossa, the blood passing along the floor of the orbit in the one case to the conjunctiva, and in the other draining through the fracture and appearing under the skin. 4. Injury to one or more of the cranial nerves will be indicated by paralysis, loss of function, or spasm of the parts which they supply. Thus there may be dropping of the upper eyelid {ptosis), external squint, loss of accommodation, double vision {diplopia), and dilatation of the pupil, when the third nerve is affected; spasm or paralysis of the facial muscles {BelVs paralysis), deafness or loss of sight if the facial, auditory or optic is injured, &c., but as the patient is frequently comatose these signs may not afford much information. The paralysis when the facial nerve is affected may come on immediately after the accident or not for some days. In the latter case it is due to inflammatory effusion about the nerve as it passes through the aqueduct of Fallopius over the tym- panum. The prognosis is always grave, the lesion generally, though not invariably, terminating fatally from con- comitant injury to the brain, or from septic inflammation of the brain and its membranes. The treatment should be directed towards the preven- tion of inflammation of the brain, in the way described under fracture of the vault (p. 360). It has been suggested that when the membrana tympani is ruptured, an attempt maybe made to prevent septic inflammation, by syringing out the ear with perchloride lotion, and applying an anti-