DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 240 leading to knock-knee, bow-legs, and other deformities. The yielding of the ribs to atmospheric pressure produces the deformity known as pigeon-breast. The spine presents a general curvature with the convexity backwards in infants and young children, and in older children a lateral or a lordotic curve. The pelvis is ill developed, flattened and usually of a reniform or hour-glass shape in consequence of the depression of the promontory of the sacrum. The head is square, the forehead prominent, and the fontanelles are late in closing. The occipital bone is sometimes thinned so that it yields on pressure or it may be in places absorbed, a condition known as craniotahes. By some pathologists, however, this condition is believed to be due to congenital syphilis. Dentition is generally delayed, or the teeth, if cut, often soon decay and fall out. Bronchitis, diarrhoea, convulsions, laryngismus stridulus and chronic hydro- cephalus are not infrequent complications; and to any of these, but especially to the first two, the child may succumb. Under appropriate treatment the disease is nearly always arrested, and perfect recovery results. The bones, however, if much bent are liable to become consolidated in their deformed condition and premature synostosis of the diaphysis and epiphysis is apt to occur inducing a stunted growth. The bones are also harder and denser than natural, especially on the side of their concavity, where a thick buttress-like layer of dense hard bone is formed. (See Pig. 59.) The treatment resolves itself into proper feeding and correcting bad hygienic conditions. The child should have plenty of new milk and cream; and the juice of raw or underdone meat, or underdone meat that has been pounded up, should be given in quantities suited to the age and powers of assimilation. Farinaceous food should be restricted in amount, and in the case of infants forbidden. Abundance of fresh air and sun- light and attention to cleanliness are especially indi- cated. In the way of medicine cod-liver oil is the most important, and may almost be looked upon as a specific. It should be combined with syrup of the phosphate or lacto-phosphate of iron and lime in half-drachm to drachm doses. The deformity of the legs may be corrected in the earlier stages by insisting upon the child not being allowed to stand or walk. To ensure it being kept ofit its legs splints reaching from the waist to below the feet may be applied. Confirmed deformities