INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 186 only occur in subjects under twenty-one years of age, the period at which nearly all of the epiphyses have united with the diaphyses. The injury is most common in the upper and lower ends of the humerus, and, from the proximity of the epiphysial lines to the shoulder and elbow-joints respectively, is liable to be mistaken for a dislocation. Eepair usually takes place by osseous tissue; hence the bone ceases to grow at the injured end, and permanent shortening of the limb if the patient has not completed his growth will then result. Por treatment, see Special fractures and dislocations, A COMPOUND ERACTURE is One in which there is a wound through the skin and other soft tissues leading to the fracture. Cause.—The wound may be produced, 1, At the same time as the fracture, either by the violence directly tearing open the soft tissues, or, as is more usually the case, by one of the fragments being forced through the skin either by the original violence or by muscular contraction. 2. Subsequently to the fracture^ by the patient trying to rise or to use the injured limb; or by want of care in removing the clothes, in handling the fracture, or trying for crepitus. 3. Still later, by ulceration or sloughing of the soft parts due to inflammation set up by the laceration of the tissues or the pressure of a projecting fragment. State of the parts.—There maybe a mere puncture, with but little if any more injury to the soft tissues than may be met with in simple fracture; or with or without a large external wound of the skin there may be extensive laceration of the soft tissues, protrusion of one or other fragment, extensive comminution of the bone, implication of a large joint, rupture of the main artery, vein or nerve, and in extreme cases crushing and laceration of the whole of the injured part of the limb. Union of compound fracture.—"When the wound is small, and has been closed at once, and the soft parts are but little injured, the process of repair is as a rule similar to that of a simple fracture. When the wound is large, or there is much laceration of the soft tissues or comminution of the bone, suppuration is very likely to ensue, and union is then effected by granulations springing from the ends of the fragments and periosteum, the process being analogous to union of the soft parts by the second inten- tion. The granulations either undergo direct ossification, or first pass through a fibrous, or in some instances a