36 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SXJBGICAL DISEASES. surrounding skin is healthy. This is the type that all ulcers assume when healing. Treatment,—Eest and pro- tection by any light unirritating dressing* is all that is usually required. When large, cicatrization may be pro- moted by skin-grafting. Two methods are employed. (a) Old method of skin-grafting.—Small pieces of healthy skin, including the rete mucosum or actively-growing epithelial layer but not the whole thickness of the corium, should be snipped from the patient's arm or elsewhere by the skin-grafting scissors and placed at once with gentle pressure on the granulating surface of the ulcer, and retained there by suitable dressings until they have become adherent. After a few days the grafts often disappear, but this may only be owing to the loss of the horny layer of the epidermis which gives them their opacity. The active deeper layer which is transparent may still be there, and the grafts, if the process is suc- cessful, will become apparent in a few days, as in the course of growth the deeper cells are pushed forward and become horny. Erom each islet of epithelium thus grafted new epithelium spreads over the surface of the sore. The granulating surface of the ulcer must be healthy or the grafting will not succeed, [h) New method of skin-grafting (Thiersch's).—The ulcer should first be brought into a healthy condition, all strong antiseptics washed off with boiled salt solution so that they may not come into contact with the grafts, and the granulations scraped away. Longitudinal shavings of skin should then be taken from the arm or thigh with a sharp razor, carried on the razor to the ulcer, and laid upon its surface. The grafts should overlap the margins or they will in retracting leave a border of granulations. There should be no subcutaneous tissue or fat on the under surface of the graft; indeed it is only necessary to shave off the tops of the papillae, as the thinner the graft the more easily it is handled. The grafts, if preferred, may be taken from an amputated limb, or from a puppy, rabbit or frog. Sponge-grafting, when the ulcer is deep, has been recommended by Professor Hamilton, but in the cases in which I have seen it tried it has not been successful. The exuberant or fungous ulcer is generally due to ob- structed venous return from the granulations, the result of undue contraction of surrounding tissues, as seen, for example, after a burn. The edges are healthy, but the