330 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. Pathology.—The walls of tlie veiii become infiltrated with leucocytes and swollen, whilst a thrombus, should such not already be present as the cause of the inflam- mation, will form in the interior of the vein. Changes similar to those already described under thrombosis may then occur in the clot. Thus the vein may become ob- literated, or the thrombus variously disposed of and the calibre of the vein restored. Or pyogenic organisms may gain admission and suppuration may take place. The suppuration however does not spread unless the thrombus, the barrier to the organisms, is disturbed on the evacua- tion of the pus. Symptoms.—There is the same cord-like swelling in the affected part of the vein as in simple thrombosis, but the skin, at least when a superficial vein is involved, is dusky- red and oedematous, and pain is more severe on pressure and on movement. When a vein of large size is affected, there will be in addition signs of obstruction to the venous circulation. The gouty form is either associated with ordinary gouty inflammation in the foot or joints, or occurs with little or no evident provocation in persons of marked gouty constitution, or with a gouty inheritance. It is more especially characterized by its symmetry, apparent metastasis, and frequent recurrences. The treatment is similar to that of thrombosis. Where there is much pain, a mixture of glycerine and bella- donna may be smeared over the vein, or lead and opium lotion, or hot boracic poultices may be applied. Should an abscess form, it must be opened with antiseptic pre- cautions, care being taken not to disturb the clots. Saline purgatives should be given, with potash, lithia, piperazine, and colchicum in the gouty, and the patient placed on low diet. Suppurative phlebitis is a spreading, infective in- flammation of the vein-walls and tissues around. Causes.— It is due to an infective inflammation spreading to the vein-walls or to the softening of an infective thrombus. Thus, it is frequently met with in connection with compound fractures, ill-conditioned stumps, acute necrosis, osteomyelitis, diffuse cellulitis, malignant pus- tule, facial carbuncle, &c. It may also follow the opening of an abscess, the result of simple phlebitis, if the clots are disturbed and septic processes are allowed to take place in the wound. Pathology.—The coats of the inflamed vein become red, swollen, and in places soft and