SYMPTOMS AND SIGNS OF ANEIJItYSM. 295 ture of the sac ; 2, inflammation and slonghing of the sac attended by haemorrhage; 3, pressure upon important parts; 4, gangrene due to the obstruction to the circula- tion in consequence of the large size of the aneurysm, or to the plugging of a large vessel by a portion of detached clot; 5, general constitutional disturbance. Eupture when it occurs into a serous cavity is generally by a rent or fissure ; into a mucous canal, by a small round ulcera- ted opening; on to a cutaneous surface, by sloughing of the skin covering the sac. In the first case the rupture is generally rapidly fatal from excessive haemorrhage; in the last two, as a rule, only after repeated haemorrhages, the slough having at first a tendency to cause the coagula- tion of the blood and block the opening. Pressure effects.—^The pressure of the sac of an aneurysm may cause,—1, inflammation and condensation of the parts around, which thus become blended with the sac; 2, diminution or obliteration of the lumen of a large vein ; and hence 3, oedema and dilatation of the superficial veins; 4, irritation or interruption of the conducting power of nerves giving rise to pain, spasm, or paralysis; 5, ero- sion of the bones and cartilage; 6, obstruction of the oesophagus, trachea, or thoracic duct. Effect on the circulation.—Hypertrophy of the left ven- tricle of the heart, obstruction of vessels and enlarge- ment of the anastomotic channels, syncope, and gangrene. Symptoms and signs of external aneurysm.—The attention is usually first drawn to the disease by pain, swelling, and a feeling of muscular weakness, or by stiff- ness in a joint. On examination a tumour is discovered in the course of the main artery. It pulsates, and the pulsation is expansile, that is, on placing the hand upon the aneurysm, it is felt at each systole of the heart to enlarge in every direction, or if the hands are placed on either side of the tumour, they are seen to be slightly separated at each pulsation. If the artery on the cardiac side of the tumour can be compressed, the pulsation of the tumour is felt to cease, and the tumour itself to become perceptibly smaller and less tense. On cessation of the pressure, however, it quickly fills again in two or three forcible pulsations, and resumes its former characters. On raising the limb, the pulsation is less forcible; on lowering the limb more forcible, the tumour at the same time becoming more tense. The pulse below the tumour is smaller on the affected than on the sound side, and a