OSTEO-MYELITIS. 223 myelitis. The traumatic variety appears only to occur as the result of injury to the interior of bone, especially where the cancellous tissue is exposed, and where the wound is not kept aseptic. Hence it is most often met with after compound fracture, excisions, amputations, and the operation of trephining the skull. Pathology.—Whether idiopathic or traumatic the in- flammation rapidly spreads through the bone to the periosteum, and diffuse suppuration ensues, the danger of saprsemia, sep- ticaemia, and pyaemia being even greater than in diffuse periostitis in consequence of the large patulous veins of the medulla becoming filled with purulent and either infective or septic thrombi. The idiopathic form would appear to depend upon the presence of infective micro-organisms(stoj9%Zococc?', streptococci) in the system; the trau- matic usually on those micrococci in- troduced from without, and hence is probably preventable if the wound is kept strictly aseptic. Should the patient in either case not be carried off in a few days by sapraemia, septicaemia, or pyaemia, the whole diaphysis may die, or suppuration occur between the dia- physis and epiphyses, and destruction of the neighbouring joints ensue (Fig. 48). In less severe cases the medullary membrane may become thickened, and only the layers of bone immediately surrounding it may die (ce/i^m^ necrOSjtk^^ 43^ Acute The symptoms of the idiopathic form osteo-myelitis of are similar to those of acute infective the tibia, with periostitis (see p. 219), save that at destruction of the . first there may be less oedema and knee and ankle swelling of the soft parts ; but soon joints. (St. Bar- the periosteum becomes involved, and tholomew's Hos- then the one disease can hardly be pital Museum.) distinguished from the other. The septic or traumatic variety is attended by high fever, rigors, and swelling and oedema of the limb, and a pu% tumour of the scalp when the diploe is involved. In the ease of an amputation the wound looks unhealthy, the