751 LITHOTBITY, LITHOLAPAXY. the natural efforts of tlie patient. To the late Professor Bigelowis undoubtedly due the credit of having enunciated the principle that the bladder is not so intolerant of instru- ments as was formerly supposed, and that it was to the presence of the fragments, rather than to the lithotrite, that the irritation, cystitis, &c., so common after the old method, should be ascribed. The operation.—The patient, having been prepared for the operation by careful attention to the general health, rest, and such local means for allaying chronic cystitis as were pointed out under that head, should be placed under an anaesthetic, with the pelvis raised a few inches, the thighs slightly apart, the knees supported on a pillow, and the body and legs well wrapped up in blankets to avoid a chill. The rectum should be emptied by a purge the day Fig. 289.—Thompson's lithotrite. before, and by an enema on the morning of the operation. A few ounces of urine in the bladder is desirable. If necessary, incise the meatus (a stricture, if present, should have previously been dilated), warm and oil the lithotrite (Fig. 289), and pass it with all gentleness, letting it glide by its own weight through the spongy and membraneous portion of the urethra, and do not depress the handle till the blades have reached the prostate. Then bring the shaft to an angle of 35° with the horizon, and it will glide through the prostatic urethra, over the trigone of the bladder, and may possibly be felt to graze the stone. The blades now rest in the lowest part of the bladder and point upwards (Fig. 290). Hold the handle tightly with the left hand, and, without moving the instrument, open the male blade by drawing out the wheel-shaped end with- the right hand. Pause a few seconds to allow the currents set up in the urine by this movement to subside. Then gently press in the male blade, and the stone will pro- bably be caught. If so, continue the pressure on the wheel to retain the stone between the blades, whilst the button is moved by the thumb to convert the sliding into the screw movement. Eotate the instrument slightly to make sure that the mucous membrane is not caught by the blades ;