236 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES, the ossification of tlie inflammatory products, whilst new bone is formed beneath the periosteum. In this way as the abscess enlarges at the expense of the old bone, new bone is continually formed around, and hence the pus seldom makes its way to the surface as in the soft parts. As the abscess, however, approaches a joint new bone is not formed beneath the articular cartilage, and so the pus on reaching the cartilage may perforate it and escape into the joint. When the inflammation is more acute sup- puration may occur before the bone-trabeculse have been completely destroyed, under which circumstance a seques- trum of cancellous tissue may be found free in the abscess cavity (Fig. 58). The symptoms are of a chronic nature, and are often obscure. Generally there is pain of a dull, boring, and localized character, often intermittent, and worse at night; tenderness on pressure at the spot where the abscess is approaching the surface; some oedema and pitting of the soft tissues; occasional enlargement of the end of the bone; and later some dusky redness of the skin. Inter- mittent attacks of inflammation of the neighbouring joint without other apparent cause are very suggestive of abscess. These symptoms will usually serve to diagnose abscess from rheumatism, local periostitis, and a new growth in the end of the iDone. From chronic osteitis it cannot always be distinguished; but this is not of so much importance as the treatment is practically the same. Treatment.—An Esmarch's bandage having been ap- plied, a crucial or T-shaped incision should be made over the tender spot, and the bone trephined. If pus does not escape a perforator should be thrust in various directions into the cancellous tissue in the hope of dis- covering it. The abscess-cavity, after having been well scraped, should be mopped out with carbolic acid or chloride of zinc, and dusted with iodoform and the wound dressed with iodoform or other antiseptic gauze, great care being taken to keep it aseptic. Should the abscess break into the joint amputation will probably be necessary. 2. Diseases depending upon Simple Defect or Intrease in Nutrition of Bone, Under this head are included two diseases of bone in which neither inflammation nor such constitutional affcQr