DISEASES OF REGIOKS. 584 be undertaken if there is a fair chance of getting the whole of the disease away and the glands are not much involved. Inplammation and abscess of the antrum is gene- rally due to the irritation of the fang of a carious tooth. It is attended with deep-seated pain, followed by swell- ing, oedema, heat, and redness of the cheek and lower eyelid, and when very acute, by sharp constitutional disturbance. The pus may overflow into the nose, or escape by the side of a tooth; or, in other instances, may distend the cavity and cause the bony walls to bulge. The treatment consists in providing a free exit for the pus as soon as formed, either by removing the carious tooth and perforating the antrum through the bottom of the alveolus or, if the ^teeth are sound, by perforating the anterior wall within the mouth through the canine fossa. The cavity should then be kept aseptic by antiseptic lotions. Closure of the jaws is the term applied to a con- dition in which the lower jaw cannot be opened, at least not to any extent. It may be due to—1, spasm of the masseter muscle, consequent upon the irritation at- tending the eruption of a wisdom-tooth for which there is not room ; 2, cicatricial contraction, following ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane induced by cancrum oris, syphilis, lupus, the abuse of mercury, &c.; 3, ankylosis of the tempore-maxillary joint; and 4, hysteria. Treatment. —When dependent upon the eruption of a wisdom-tooth, the tooth itself, or under some circumstances the second molar, must be extracted. When dependent upon cica- tricial contractions, the forcible opening of the mouth by a screw-gag and maintaining it open by a cork placed between the teeth will, in slight cases, suffice. In other instances I have found division of the cicatricial bands, and subsequently keeping the jaws separated, successful, although this proceeding does not appear to have always answered in the hands of others. When the bands are very dense or the closure depends upon ankylosis of the temporo-maxillary joint, a new articulation must be made by dividing the ramus of the jaw and removing a wedge- shaped piece in front of the contractions. Necrosis of the jaws.—Necrosis is more common, and when it occurs, more extensive in the lower than in the upper jaw, a fact due' in part to the poorer blood- supply of the former, and in part to the predilection