ET^CYSTED HYDROCELE OE THE TESTICLE. 805 balance between the secreting and absorbing power of the tunica vaginalis, or occasionally by causing adhesions between the two layers of the tunica vaginalis. Should the injection fail, it may be repeated; or the tunica vaginalis may be laid open, a portion cut away, and the remainder united by suture and drained. But even this treatment cannot always be depended on for curing the hydrocele. The only absolutely certain method is to lay open the sac and allow it to granulate up from the bottom. The hydroceles so frequently seen in young children generally undergo a spontaneous cure, and nothing be- yond a discutient lotion is usually necessary. Should the hydrocele prove intractable, however, it may be punctured with a fine trocar and cannula, and, if neces- sary, afterwards injected with a weak solution of iodine. Congenital hydrocele is a collection of fluid in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, the funicular process of which through an arrest of development has remained un- obliterated. The fluid, therefore, unless the aperture of communication is very small, can be readily pressed back into the abdominal cavity, and an expansile impulse is given to it on coughing or crying. In this respect it resembles a hernia ; but its translucency and the fact that the fluid goes back slowly and without the sudden slip or gurgle as is the case in a hernia, should serve to distinguish it. It should not be forgotten that a piece of omentum or intestine may descend into the sac of the hydrocele. At times, the aperture of communication between the funicular process and the general peritoneal cavity is closed, and though the hydrocele still extends more or less up the inguinal canal, the fluid cannot be pressed back into the abdominal cavity. To this condition the name of infantile hydrocele has been given. Treatment,—A truss should be applied over the inguinal canal to cause obliteration of the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis, and to prevent the descent of a hernia, and subsequently the hydrocele may be treated in the ordinary way. As a rule, however, when the obliteration of the funicular portion has been accomplished, the hydrocele imdergoes a spontaneous cure. Encysted hydrocele or the testicle.—-This term is applied to a cyst or cysts formed in connection with the testicle or epididymis, but having no communication with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Cysts in connection