DISEASES OE HEGIOi^S. 820 ence with its blood supply as from the compression of the spermatic artery by a new growth or aneurysm; 3, ob- struction to the venous return as in varicocele; 4, direct pressure on the organ, as by an old hsematocele, or by the abdominal muscles or by a truss when the testicle is retained in the inguinal canal. Neuralgia of the testicle is occasionally met with, but pain in the testicle should not be pronounced neural- gic till the various diseases of the kidney, rectum, bladder and prostate, which may give rise to reflected pain in the testicle, have been excluded. "When no cause for the pain can be discovered, the ordinary neuralgic remedies should be given, although the prospect of success from their use is not great. Eetained testicle.—Non-descent of the testicle is said to be due to—1, the formation of adhesions in any part of its course into the scrotum; 2, disproportion be- tween the size of the testicle and the abdominal rings; 3, paralysis of the gubernaculum testis; and 4, too short a condition of the spermatic cord. At times, the union between the vas deferens and the testicle, ^.e., the union of the Wolffian duct and the portion of blastema from which the body of the testicle is developed, does not occur, and the vas descends alone. The testicle may be retained in one of three situations, viz., 1, in the abdominal cavity; 2, in the inguinal canal; and 3, just outside the external alDdominal ring. In the two latter situations it is often associated with a congenital hernia. Treatment.—In the first situation nothing can be done. In the third, the testicle should be coaxed into the scrotum by gentle and oft-repeated manipulations, and a truss applied over the inguinal canal should there be signs of a hernia. When the testicle is retained in the inguinal canal, time should be given it to descend, and a truss applied if possible over the internal ring. Should it not descend as the child grows older, the question of its removal must be raised, as in this situation atrophy of the organ is nearly sure to ensue, and it is liable to be frequently attacked by inflammation, and to be affected by malignant disease. Moreover, it exposes the patient to the risks of hernia. In some cases, however, it may be returned into the abdomen^ and kept there by a truss.