151 CELLULO-CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. cutaneous form, most likely the ordinary streptococcus of spreading suppuration. It is probably always associated with a scratch or wound, and nearly always terminates in suppuration,of the subcutaneous tissue and sloughing, of the skin, but it seldom penetrates beyond the deep fascia, unless this has been injured. It is most common in the intemperate, or those of broken-down constitution or the subject of visceral disease, and is especially frequent after a scalp wound. Symptoms,—There is locally much more oedema and swelling than in the former variety, but the redness is less bright and not so sharply defined, and blebs or bullae containing serum, which may be blood-stained, often form over the affected part. The pain, at first hot and tingling, soon becomes throbbing, and the swelling brawny, and, should suppuration occur, boggy in places; whilst the redness assumes first a dusky, then a purple, and then a mottled hue ; finally, dark-coloured sloughs form, but no pointing occurs. If an incision is made into the tissues, they are at first found infiltrated with fluid, and later look like wet wash-leather from the breaking down of the cellular tissue into pus and sloughs. As the inflammation is more intense than in cutaneous erysipelas, so are the constitutional symptoms, though similar, moire severe. The fever, at first slight, assumes a typhoid cha- racter as suppuration sets in. The disease may terminate in resolution, but more frequently runs the course above described, and may end fatally from broncho-pneumonia, saprsemia, septicaemia, pyaemia, exhaustion, or hectic. It is most fatal when, as is so frequently the case, the patient is the subject of chronic kidney disease. Locally, it may lead to necrosis of bone, destruction of a joint, brawny thickening of the part, or much scarring. Treatment.—This must be both constitutional and local. A purgative should be given at the onset, and the patient placed on slop diet, which should be exchanged, when suppuration occurs, for concentrated nourishment with bark, iron, and stimulants. Locally, lint or spongio- piline soaked in hot boracic lotion should be applied, and incisions made early before sloughing has had time to take place, i.e., as soon as the parts become brawny. A number of small incisions made parallel to the long axis of the limb are preferable to one long one. They should extend through the skin into the inflamed cellular tissue, the haemorrhage, which is often free, being readily stopped