INJURIES OF REGION'S. 388 extravasation of blood; 5, oedematous laryngitis; and 6, pericliondrial abscess and necrosis of the cartilage. Treatment.—If the parts are fairly in apposition all that can be done is to steady them with a bandage and suitably-shaped pads of lint. But when there is serious displacement with perforation of the mucous membrane, as evidenced by severe dyspnoea and spitting of blood, tracheotomy should be at once performed, as otherwise the patient runs an imminent risk of sudden suffocation. An attempt may then be made with the hand manipu- lating the cartilage externally, and with the forefinger of the other hand in the pharynx, to rectify the displace- ment. Injuries of the Pharynx and (Esophagus from ivithin. Wounds of the pharynx are not infrequently met with from falls with a pipe, stick, &c., in the mouth. They may be attended by severe haemorrhage when the lateral walls of the pharynx are punctured, either imme- diately, or on removing the inflicting body, or later, from a portion of the stick or pipe being broken off and re- maining as a foreign body in the wound where it has caused suppuration and ulceration of a vessel. Treatment.—Any bleeding vessel seen should be se- cured, or failing this, pressure must be made with a stick wrapped round with lint, or solid perchloride of iron applied. As a last resource the common or external carotid must be tied. Should a foreign body be seen in the wound it should not be removed till preparations have been made (as for tying the carotid) to effectually arrest any hsemorrhage which might follow its extrac- tion. Injuries of the (esophagus may be inflicted in at- tempts to remove a foreign body or to pass an oesophagus bougie; or its walls may be perforated by a fishbone, &c., or may occasionally be ruptured during vomiting. Fatal haemorrhage from the aorta, and perforation of the peri- cardium, pleura, and posterior mediastinum, followed by inflammation and death, have occasionally resulted from such injuries. Treatment,—Where a wound is suspected, the patient should at first be fed entirely by the rectum, and subsequently given only fluids in small quantities, so as to allow the wound time to heal. Burns and scalds. — Burns of the pharynx occa-