12 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. first disease having exhausted the supply of the material which is necessary for the development of the bacteria of that particular disease; (c) by the chemical products formed jpari passu with the bacteria acting as a poison to the bacteria and preventing their development; {d) by certain chemical constituents in the blood-serum which destroy the bacteria; (e) by the leucocytes collecting around the bacteria, and so killing them; and (/) by the leucocytes and tissue cells absorbing and destroying the bacteria [phagocytosis). Much has been written of late on the destruction of bacteria by the leucocytes and tissue cells [phagocytosis). Metschnikoff and his pupils hold that the leucocytes are endued with a peculiar power of protecting the organism, that they are attracted by the bacteria [chemiotaxis), gather round them, absorb them into their substance, and so digest or destroy them; and then that the leucocytes [microphages) having thus per- formed their function of scavengers are in their turn absorbed by large amaeboid cells [macrophages) derived from the tissues and are in like manner destroyed. Other pathologists hold that the bacteria are first killed by the chemical products generated by the bacteria or by the disinfecting constituents in the blood-serum, and then only when dead are absorbed by the leucocytes and tissue cells, and thus along with the devitalized tissues are in this way got rid of. Amongst the pathogenic bacteria of surgical interest may be mentioned : the anthrax bacillus, the cause of malignant pustule ; the tubercle bacillus found in tuber- cular disease; the bacillus of glanders, of leprosy, of actino- mycosis, of tetanuSj of diphtheria, and of rhinoscleroma; the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, and the streptococcus pyogenes, the organisms found in connection with suppu- ration; the streptococcus erysipelatosus and the micro- coccus gonorrhoeae. Signs and symptoms of inflammation. These may be divided into the local a^nd the constitutional. The local signs are the well-known redness, heat, pain, and swell- ing, to which may be added disturbance or alteration of function. Except in a typical case, these signs are not all necessarily present; on the other hand, the presence of one or more is not always indicative of inflammation. The redness is due to the dilatation of the small arterioles, veins and capillaries, and increased flow of blood to the part; the darker patches over the general