198 11SrJtJllli]S OP SPECIAL TiSStTES* The after-treatment consists in maintaining the part at rest by suitably-applied strapping and bandages, and in preventing or subduing inflammation by cold, evaporating lotions, &c. The part, however, should not be kept at absolute rest longer than is sufficient for the torn liga- ments and other soft tissues to heal lest adhesions form and stiffness of the joint ensue. Passive movements, therefore, should be cautiously begun after a few weeks; and friction, shampooing, or galvanism subsequently employed to restore the tone of the wasted muscles. Where stiffness has occurred the adhesions should be broken down under an ansesthetic, provided there are no signs of active inflammation in the joint. Treatment of compound dislo'-ations.—The dislocation should be reduced, the parts placed at perfect rest, and the case treated as a wound of the joint (see Wounds of Joifits). In consequence of the extensive laceration of the ligaments and other soft tissues reduction is usually quite easy. When a compound dislocation is combined with a fracture of the bone, and there is much laceration of the soft parts, amputation of the limb in the lower extremity, and resection of the joint in the upper, will probably be required. Congenital dislocations are those that occur during intra-uterine life, and generally depend upon some mal- formation of the articular surfaces. They are all very rare, congenital dislocation of the hip, however, being the least so. Little or nothing, as a rule, can be done in the way of treatment. But continuous extension in the horizontal position with pressure over the trochanter has in the case of the hip been attended with considerable success, and Dr. Ogston has recently excised the head of the femur and inserted the neck into a new acetabulum formed by cutting a notch in the ilium. Wounds op joints.—A joint may be merely punc- tured, or it may be laid freely open. The wound may be of an incised, lacerated or contused character, and com- plicated by extensive injury of the surrounding soft tissues, or by dislocation or fracture of the articular ends of the bones. In the latter case, the wound may be further complicated by the protrusion of the dislocated bones or the ends of the fragments. A wound of a large joint should always be regarded as serious, as owing to the difficulty of securing an efficient drain, and, when once air has entered, of preventing