UMBILICAL HERmA. 705 sliglitly adducted, and rotated inwards, to relax the falci- form process of the fascia lata. 4. That on account of the unyielding nature of the parts there is but little prospect of reducing the hernia under chloroform or by a hot bath. 5. That should the hernia become strangulated, ulceration is rapidly produced, owing to the pressure of the wiry edge of Grimbernat's ligament. Therefore, if the hernia is not returnable by moderate taxis, an opera- tion should immediately be performed. 6. That the incision (Fig. 272) should be made in a vertical direction over the inner side of the neck of the hernia, the skin being nipped up and transfixed to avoid injuring the sac, as the coverings are often very thin. 7. That the stricture should be divided in an upward and inward direction through the junction of Grimbernat's with Hey's ligament. If made directly inwards the resulting aperture is so large that it is difficult subsequently to keep up the hernia with a truss; while if made directly upwards, the sper- matic cord and epigastric artery, and if outwards, the femoral vein are endangered. 8. Several small notches are preferable to a single and larger incision, as there is less danger of wounding an abnormal artery should one be present. 9. Should such an abnormal artery be wounded it must be tied if possible, enlarging the incision if necessary, otherwise an attempt may be made to twist it or a pressure forceps may be left on. Umbilical hernia (exomphalos, or omphalocele) is one that escapes at the umbilicus. The sac, according to Mr. Birkett, is always an acquired one, and consists of the parietal layer of peritoneum, and never of a natural process of peritoneum like that of the funicular process in the inguinal region. In infancy the hernia passes through the yet unclosed umbilical ring; in adults, through an aperture in the fibres of the linea alba near the umbilicus. It is most often met with in infants; is rare in young adults; and is more common, again, in the old, especially in stout females. The sac is usually very thin, and frequently cribriform or altogether deficient in places; whilst the contents usually consist of omentum and of a small knuckle of intestine which mostly lies concealed in omentum at the neck of the sac. The coverings are— 1, the skin ; 2, the superficial and deep fascia with a thin layer of fat between them; 3, the fascia transversalis; and 4, the peritoneum, which constitutes the sac. They frequently, however, become so thinned, adherent to one w. z z