TREATMENT OF II^MOERHAGE. 125 the veins.—Transfusion of blood has long been employed in cases where death is threatened from excessive haemor- rhage. It is, however, a dangerous procedure, in that the transfused blood may form clots and thus lead to the plugging of some of the patient's vessels, with possibly fatal consequences. And, moreover, it appears that blood is of no more value than an equal amount of any bland fluid, since it has been recently shewn that the transfused blood is merely destroyed and absorbed and the blood-pigment passed with the urine. On the other hand, the infusion of a saline solution has all the advan- tages of transfusion of blood without its disadvantages and dangers. A normal saline solution (common salt 53* ; water Oj) at 99° F. is the most easily prepared, and is best infused into the median basilic vein. The vein is exposed, ligatured below, compressed above by a clamp, opened, and a glass cannula introduced and secured in situ by a ligature. The cannula is next connected with an irrigator by a rubber tube, and all air having been carefully excluded the clamp is removed from the vein and several pints of the solution allowed to flow in. The object of the infusion is to raise the blood pressure in the arteries sufficiently to enable the patient to rally. The infusion should be con- tinued, therefore, till the object is attained. I have seen the most marvellous effects follow this treatment. It may be repeated if necessary after a short interval. Where the apparatus is not at hand and the case is urgent a pint of warm water should be injected into the rectum and prevented from escaping. The fluid is rapidly ab- sorbed from the rectum and acts in a similar manner to infusion into the veins, only somewhat more slowly. The local treatment of haemorrhage may be con- sidered under the heads of arterial, venous, and capillary haemorrhage. Arterial haemorrhage is spoken of as (1) primary, (2) reactionary or recurrent, and (3) secondary. 1. Primary hcemorrhage is that which occurs at the time an artery is wounded, whether by accident or sur- gical operation. 2. Reactionary or recurrent hcemorrhage is that which occurs on the patient recovering from the shock of the wound or operation after the primary haemorrhage has stopped, and may be regarded as a failure in the process for the temporary closure of the vessel. The term recurrent, therefore, should only be applied to haemorrhage occurring within twenty-four