GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE mJURIES. 102 In wouuds where there is loss of substance so that the edges of the skin cannot be brought into contact, healing by the second intention is the normal method of union. The surface after the haemorrhage has been stopped be- comes glazed over, and a reddish serum slowly escapes; granulations appear, first here and there, a,nd finally over the whole surface of the wound, which is then gradually filled up as described above. In lacerated wounds the same process occurs, the dead portions of the lacerated tissues, however, being first thrown off in the form of sloughs. In flap wounds where adhesion by the first intention has failed, after the surfaces of the flaps have become covered by granulations the two layers of granulations in contact may unite, a mode of healing known as secondary adhe- sion or union by the third intention. Yet again, when a wound has been sealed by blood or discharges, it may unite either by adhesive inflammation or by granulation, the process being hidden by the scab of hardened blood and discharges, on the separation of which the wound is found soundly healed. It is the common method of healing among animals, and is known as healing under a seal), or as it was humorously described by Sir James Paget in his lectures on Surgery, as union by no inten- tion at all. Thus a wound may heal, 1, by adhesive inflammation, or by the first intention; 2, by granulation, or by the second intention; 3, by secondary adhesion, union of granulations, or by the third intention; and 4, under a scab. These methods of healing may now be studied more in detail. 1. Healing hy the first intention, or hy adhesive inflam- mation.—Chiefly as the result of the injury inflicted on the tissues by the instrument making the wound, and to a less extent as the result of exposure to the cold air and it may be of the irritation of strong chemical anti- septics, a simple traumatic inflammation is set up in the layer of tissue bounding the incision (Fig. 19 and Fig. 20). As a consequence, stasis and coagulation of the blood is induced in the divided smaller vessels and capillaries, and thus the haemorrhage from them spontaneously ceases (Fig. 20a). Immediately around there is dilatation of the vessels with retarded flow, and escape of leucocytes and liquor sanguinis. These infiltrate the tissues adjacent to the incision and pass through the cut lymph-spaces on to the raw surface of the wound. There coagulation occurs,