DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 334 suture. The injections chiefly employed are perchloride of iron and carbolic acid. If they are used, the vein should be compressed above till the blood at the spot of injection has had time to coagulate. If a subcutaneous ligature is employed, it should consist of aseptic silk or chromicized catgut. The caustic method consists in placing Vienna paste in various situations over the vein ; it sets up inflammation and ulceration of the skin, which spreads to the vein and causes its obliteration. Excision of a portion of the vein after a ligature has been applied above and below is a method commonly employed at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and appears on the whole to be the best and most certain method of radical cure. What- ever operation is undertaken, however, the patient should be kept at rest in the recumbent position to prevent a portion of the thrombus becoming detached and the consequent danger of embolism in vital organs; whilst the strictest precautions should be taken to keep the wound aseptic, lest suppurative phlebitis ensue. K^VUS. There are two chief varieties of nsevus, the capillary and the venous, but both forms may be combined. The CAPILLARY N^YUS or plexiform angioma con- sists of a mass of dilated and tortuous capillaries bound together by a scanty amount of connective tissue. These nsevi are most common on the head, neck, face and chest; and occur as small, flat, or slightly-elevated, red or purplish-red patches on the skin or mucous membrane. Sometimes they are spread out as a thin layer covering perhaps the greater part of one side of the face, and are then known as jport-iuine marks. The blood can be pressed out momentarily, but returns when pressure is removed. Their rate of growth varies; sometimes it is quick, at other times it is slow; or they may remain stationary, or disappear spontaneously. Treatment,—The smaller nsevi may readily be destroyed by nitric acid or ethylate of sodium. Those known as " port-wine marks " should be left alone, or under some conditions they may be scarified. The yenous N^YUS or cavernous angioma consists of a number of cavernous spaces lined with endothelium and communicating with each other, and with the arteries on