DISEASES OF REGIONS. 578 silver sutures should be fastened by the wire-twister (Fig. 211) and cut off short, care being taken to hold the edges of the cleft merely in apposition and not to apply any tension. The horsehair should be tied with a treble Surgeon's knot. "When the parts have been brought together any undue tension should be relieved by making lateral incisions through each side of the soft palate parallel to the cleft and just internal to the hamular process with a tenotome on a long handle. By these incisions the levator palati muscles are divided. The palato-pharyngei may also be divided if necessary by notching the posterior pillars of the fauces with scissors. TJrano'plasty^ or closure of the hard palate. The soft palate having been previously brought together in the way described, the operation on the hard may be begun Fig. 211.—Wire-twister. at that stage where the tension becomes such that the soft parts can no longer be brought together. The edges of the cleft having been pared, an incision from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch long should be made on either side of, and parallel to, the cleft through the muco-periosteum down to the bone (Fig. 212, E, e). The incisions should fall a little distance from the alveolar process, so as to avoid wounding the anterior palatine artery. Into one of these incisions a raspatory or an aneurysm needle with a short curve should be introduced, and the muco-periosteum separated from the bone along the whole length of the cleft in the hard palate, avoiding the neighbourhood of the posterior palatine foramen through which the anterior palatine artery runs. The attachment of the muco-periosteum to the posterior margin of the hard palate should be divided with curved scissors passed through the cleft and behind the soft palate, which should be drawn forwards to facilitate this step of the operation. Pressure should be made upon the parts with a small sponge by an assistant, whilst the muco-periosteum is being separated in like manner on the opposite side. Wire-sutures should now be passed in the way described for uniting the soft palate, and any tension relieved by prolonging the cuts made for the