DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. 533 of thickened conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue near the inner or outer edge of the cornea. Pterygium is a triangular thickened piece of the ocular conjunctiva, with its apex at the margin of or on the cornea. It is especially found in people who have been in the Tropics. If it invades the cornea it may- be dissected off and the apex stitched back on the con- junctiva. Wounds of the conjunctiva heal well, and if extensive ought to be stitched up. III. Diseases of the cornea and sclerotic. Keratitis, or inflammation of the cornea, is charac- terized, as a rule, by pain, photophobia, lachrymation, impairment of vision, pink circumcorneal vascular zone, and want of natural transparency of the cornea. It may be divided by its position into 1, superficial; 2, interstitial; and 3, posterior or punctate. 1. Supereicial KERATITIS is usually produced by irrita- tion due to roughness or insufficient protection of the lids. The condition is often vascular (pannus). A very painful forni is accompanied by numerous small vesicles [herpes of the cornea). The treatment consists in the re- moval of the irritant, and in the application of sedative lotions of opium, belladonna, &c. In obstinate cases of pannus the operation of peritomy (removal of a ring of conjunctiva round the corneal periphery so as to cut off the superficial blood supply to the cornea) may be per- formed. Corneal Ulcer is a loss of substance due to limited inflammation of the corneal tissue. It is described here under superficial keratitis because it usually begins in the superficial or epithelial part of the cornea. Some- times from the commencement it affects the corneal tissue proper, and is then generally produced by a limited collection of pus in the lamella of the cornea [abscess or onyx). A corneal ulcer may be {a) simple, or [h) infective, and these may be central or peripheral, acute or chronic. [a) The simple idcer may be due to an abrasion of the cornea, a phlyctenula, &c., and is best treated when acute by atropine drops, unless it be deep and peripheral, when eserine or pilocarpine drops are to be preferred. When chronic, an ointment of yellow mercuric oxide should be