222 DISEASES 0^ SPECIAL TiSSITES* and not accompanied by redness of the skin. On the head the swelling is soft and fluctuating, and may have to be diagnosed from an abscess, new growth, or sebaceous cyst. Its evident connection with the bone, the history of syphilis, the effect of treatment, and, if still in doubt, exploration with a grooved needle, will clear up the point. Treatment.—Iodide of potassium is useful in all forms of chronic periostitis, but it may often be necessary to give it in large doses. In the s^^hilitic variety it generally acts like a charm. In the rheumatic an oint- ment containing iodide of potassium, mercury, and belladonna may also be used locally with benefit. In the tuberculous, cod-liver oil and syrup of the iodide of iron should be given. In all forms opium internally is indicated when there is much pain. The soft node on the cranium should on no account be opened, even where the skin is inflamed and appears about to give way, as iodide of potassium will then often promote complete resolution. OsTEO-MYELiTis or inflammation beginning in or chiefly affecting the medullary membrane and cancellous tissue of bone, may like periostitis be acute or chronic. Acute osteo-myelitis may also occur as a simple localized, or as a diffuse septic or infective injiammation. Simple acute osteo-myelitis is generally the result of an injury exposing the medulla as a compound frac- ture, or the sawing of a bone in amputation. In the latter instance it is usually quite local, though at times it may spread a slight distance up the bone and cause a localized central necrosis. The sequestrum in such a case has commonly a conical form, in consequence of the inflammation as it spreads up the medullary cavity affecting less and less of the surrounding bone lamellae. Beyond keeping the wound perfectly aseptic and re- moving the sequestrum when loose, no special treatment is required. DlEEUSE infective OE, SEPTIC OSTEO-MYELITIS.— Cause.—This variety may be idiopathic (infective) or traumatic (septic) in origin. The idiopathic variety, like acute infective periostitis, usually occurs in young and either debilitated or strumous subjects without apparent cause, and also like it is generally believed to depend upon the presence of micro-organisms {staphylococci, streptococci) in the system. Indeed, as alreadjr stated, the disease described as infective periostitis is believed by some pathologists always to begin as an infective osteo-