858 DISEASES OF REGIONS. medianical supports necessary after the foot has been rectified will be briefly mentioned under the treatment of each variety of talipes. Physiological after-treatment is most important for the purpose of restoring the natural movements of the joints and the functional activity of the muscles. It consists in active and passive exercises, massage, Faradization, hot and cold sponging, and lastly in teaching the patient the proper use of the restored foot. It now remains to mention the special treatment appropriate to each variety of talipes. In talipes eguijiiis, tenotomy of the tendo Achillis is usually all that is required; but if there is much con- traction of the sole (talipes cavus), the plantar fascia, or any tense band that can be felt, should first be divided, and when the sole has been straight- ened out by keeping the foot for a fortnight or so in plaster of Paris, the tendo Achillis may then be cut, and the foot again placed in plaster in the restored position for another two or three weeks. A boot with double Fig. 332. — Boot leg-irons and toe-raising spring must with double leg- be subsequently worn in paralytic irons to above cases, the irons being carried above knee, outside the knee and the outer iron above the iron continued l^ip to a pelvic band if the flexors or to pelvic girdle. extensors of the leg are also affected (Fig. 332). In talipes varus, except in slight cases, the tibialis anticus and posticus should first be divided, and the inversion of the foot overcome by some form, of varus splint, or plaster of Paris. When this has been thoroughly done, the tendo Achillis should be cut, and the heel brought down as in equinus. Where there is much contraction of the sole, the plantar fascia, or other tense band, should be divided after the tibials but before the tendo Achillis. A similar instrument to that described for equinus should then be worn for six months to a year or more; or as long as any tendency is shown to relapse. In paralytic cases, where the whole leg tends to twist inwards from the hip-joint, the outer iron should be carried