FOBEIGN BODIES IN THE AIR PASSAGES. 393 may be heard to strike the cords, whilst a whistling sound may sometimes be detected as it passes up and down. During the intervals of the cough and dyspnoea, whilst the body is at rest in the bronchus, as is also the case when it is permanently impacted in it, there will be an absence of the breathing sounds over the whole or part of the lung on that side, according as the main bronchus or one of the secondary bronchi is obstructed; the resonance, however, will be normal or dull in places, according to the position and nature of the foreign body. If any air can pass the obstructing body, rhonchial or sibilant sounds may be heard, due in part to the bron- chitis set up by it. Over the opposite lung puerile breathing may be detected. When the foreign body is heavy and of a rounded shape, it may act as a ball- valve, i.e., it may allow air from the lung to be forced past it during expiration, but then fall back into a narrower part of the bronchus, and so prevent air entering during inspiration. In this way collapse of the lung is brought about. If the foreign body is not re- moved, or does not escape spontaneously, sudden death may occur during an attack of spasmodic dyspnoea; or it may set up bronchitis, pneumonia, or gangrene or abscess of the lung. At other times it induces more chronic changes, such as phthisis, or it may become encysted ! and no harm follow. In rare instances it may make I its way out through the chest-walls by perforation or I ulceration. Treatment.—The patient should be inverted. Before doing this, however, everything should be in readiness for instant tracheotomy, in case the foreign body becomes lodged in the larynx and gives rise to spasm of the glottis. Children may be held up by the legs, but for adults some special contrivance may be necessary, as, for instance, Brunei's table. Inversion failiog, tracheotomy should be performed, as the patient is in danger of suffoca- tion at any instant. On opening the trachea, should the foreign body not be expelled at once, either through the wound, or, as sometimes happens, through the mouth, the patient may be again inverted, or search made for it through the wound with tracheal forceps, wire variously bent, &c. These means failing, the tracheotomy wound must be kept open to allow of future trials being made if the foreign body is not expelled during the interval.