DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 258 organisms, and sepsis as from the absorption of septic poison after ligature of the umbilical cord. ■ Pathology.—The inflammation as a rule terminates rapidly in suppuration, in which case either the articular cartilage may be perforated and the pus escape into the joint setting up acute arthritis, or the epiphysis may become completely cut off from the diaphysis and form, as in the case of epiphysitis of the upper end of the femur, a loose sequestrum in the interior of the joint. In less acute cases the inflammation may subside without suppuration ensuing, under which circumstances premature synostosis may take place between the diaphysis and epiphysis, and the growth of the bone at the affected end be thus arrested. The chronic cases may also terminate in sup- puration and destruction of the joint; but if this does not occur, the prolonged vascularity may lead to increased nutritive changes, and instead of growth being arrested by premature synostosis, the bone may be increased in length. Symptoms,—Severe constitutional disturbance; swelling of the end of the bone; tenderness, heat, and sometimes redness of the skin; stiffness and fixidity of the joint; pain, increased on movement; and probably, later, signs of acute arthritis, grating of the epiphysis on the dia- physis, and if the capsule of the joint bursts^ the forma- tion of a large abscess in the limb. In the chronic form the signs are those of the early stage of tubercular joint disease. The treatment consists in placing the limb in a corrected position on a splint, the application of a few leeches, and free incisions down to the epiphysis with antiseptic pre- cautions as soon as there are signs of suppuration. Should it appear probable that pus is contained in the epiphysis the latter should be cautiously perforated. If the jointj notwithstanding this treatment, becomes affected, it must be laid freely open and drained antiseptically, and any sequestrum that may be present removed. Ghbonic TUBERCULAR ARTHRITIS, also called tumor albus or white swelling, pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane, and fungous or _ strumous inflammation, is characterized by a gradual "enlargement of the joint, unaccompanied by redness or much increase of synovial secretion. It begins very insidiously, i& chronic in its course, and is prone to end in total disorganization of the