STRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 607 syphilis or tubercle. It may break into the pharynx, or at the side of the neck, or even make its way into the mediastinum. Syinptoms.—Pain, difficulty in opening the mouth, obstructed deglutition and respiration, the presence of a fluctuating swelling at the back of the throat, and more or less swelling about the angle of the jaw. When the abscess is acute, there is commonly some febrile disturbance. Treatment.—A vertical incision should be made in the middle line through the posterior pharyngeal wall with a properly guarded knife, the swelling having been previously punctured with a long grooved needle if there is any doubt as to its nature. If opened under chlo- roform, the head should be turned rapidly to the side to allow the escape of pus through the mouth, as suffocation has occurred through a sudden gush into the air-passages. When it depends upon disease of the spine, if an open- ing is thought necessary it should be made through the side of the neck. Tumours of the pharynx are rare, though all varieties may occur. When arising in the loose cellular tissue behind the pharynx, the more common situation, they are spoken of as post-pharyngeal tumours. The softer varieties closely simulate abscess, but the absence of fluc- tuation, and of pus on puncture will settle the diagnosis. Innocent growths, when small and unattached to the vertebrae, may be enucleated through a vertical incision over them. The malignant, as a rule, should be left alone. Stricture of the cesophagus may be due to spasm of the muscular fibres {spasmodic stricture), to cicatricial contraction [fibrous stricture) or to epitheliomatous or other malignant growths of its walls (malignant stricture). Further, stricture may be simulated by compression of the oesophagus from without as by an aneurysm, enlarged thyroid gland, post-oesophageal abscess, or mediastinal tumour; or by a foreign body impacted in the tube, disease at the back of the larynx, &c. Spasmodic stricture or spasm of the oesophagus generally, occurs in young hysterical women. The patient may be quite unable to swallow, and a bougie, perhaps, will not pass. The diagnosis will then rest on the obstruction existing only at times; on the age and sex of the patient; the presence of other signs of hysteria ; but chiefly on the fact that, under an anaesthetic, the bougie, which could not IDreviously be passed, slips down easily into the stomach. The treatment shoulcj consist in the administration of anti-