\ DISEASES OE THE TONGUE. 565 place from the bottom. If a mere incision is made, the cyst is nearly sure to fill again. A seton- will sometimes answer, but it is not always reliable; if, therefore, the treatment above" indicated fails, the cyst ^ should be dis- sected out. Congenital, dermoid, or deep sebaceous cysts.—. Pathology. — These cysts, which contain a grumous, sebaceous material, project both under the tongue and in the neck below the jaw. Those in the middle line of the neck or tongue may be due to, 1. Enlargement of the hyoid bursa, 2. Dermoid formations, and 3. Eemains of the thyroid duct [His's duct). In the last case they are situated (a) near the foramen caecum, bulging under the tongue, or (6) in the neck, projecting perhaps as low as the pyramidal or middle lobe of the thyroid body. Those on one side of the neck are due to dermoid forma- tions in the regions of the branchial clefts. Signs.— Fluctuation may often be obtained by one finger in the mouth and another on the cyst in the neck. As they in- crease in size, they send prolongations in various direc- tions, and sometimes become connected with the carotid sheath. In the latter instance the pulsation of the carotid may be communicated to the cyst. Treatment.—When not too large, and apparently moveable, an attempt should be made to remove them through the mouth to prevent scarring. When too large for this, they must be dissected out through an incision in the neck DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. Tongue-tie is due to the tongue being more or less tightly bound down to the floor of the mouth by the shortness of the frsenum. It is apt, when well marked, to interfere with sucking, and later, with distinct speech. It is easily remedied by dividing the fraenum with probe- pointed scissors, taking care to direct the points down- wards and backwards and merely to notch the free border, lest the ranine artery be wounded, an accident which, in infants, has been attended with severe, and in some cases fatal, haemorrhage. If the division of the freenum is too free the tongue may loll backwards, press- ing the epiglottis over the entrance of the larynx, and produce severe dyspnoea or even fatal asphyxia—" swal- lowing the tongue," as it has been called. On drawing