ULCEUS. 37 granulations rise up above the surface, and are turgid, dark red, redundant, and readily bleed. The discharge is purulent. Treatment—Solid nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper should be rubbed over the granulations until they are reduced to healthy proportions. The cedematous or weak ulcer generally occurs in con- nection with tubercular bones or joints, but any ulcer may become cedematous if healing is delayed by the too long use of emollient applications. The edges and surround- ings are generally healthy; and the granulations are up-raised, flabby, bulbous, semi-translucent, watery, and friable. The discharge is profuse and watery. Treats ment.—Eemoval of the cause where possible; uniform pressure; and application of lotions of nitrate of silver, or like astringents. The inflammatory and inflamed ulcer.—These terms are applied to ulcers in which the inflammatory phenomena are the most marked feature. The inflammation may depend on some constitutional disturbance consequent upon alcoholism, poor living, and the like; or it may be the result of local irritation applied to any ulcer what- ever its previous character. Por the purpose of distinc- tion, the term inflammatory is applied to the former condition, whilst the term inflamed is generally restricted to ulcers of the latter class. Inflammatory ulcers have generally an irregular shape, the edge& are ragged and shreddy, or abrupt or sharp-cut; the surrounding skin is red and cedematous, and the base void of granulations, dry, livid-red, or covered with a serous or sanious dis- charge mixed with tissue-debris, and if the inflammation is very acute, with yellow sloughs. When inflammation attacks a previously granulating ulcer, the granulations become florid and swollen, and generally slough, whilst the surrounding parts present the ordinary inflammatory phenomena. The treatment should consist of rest, the elevation of the part, the removal of all local irritation, the application of warm antiseptic lotions, as boracic acid, on lint, attention to the constitutional state, and regu- lation of the secretions. The sloughing ulcer.—This is merely a severer degree of the former, and it differs from it in that the inflammatory process is more intense and of a spreading character. It is seldom met with except in connection with venereal disease. The micro-organisms at work in this and the next form of ulcer are probably only the ordinary pyo-