DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 220 formed beneatH the periosteum, stripping the latter from the bone, which thus cut o& from its nutrient supply dies. Sometimes the whole diaphysis may thus perish. The epiphyses, however, generally escape, as they are supplied by a separate set of vessels, which, as long as the epi- physial cartilage remains unossified, do not anastomose with those of the diaphysis. For the like reason the joints usually escape, but as the periosteum is continuous with their capsular ligament the inflammation may at times spread to them through this structure. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The disease is attended with severe inflammatory fever, and is often preceded by a rigor, and sometimes accompanied by delirium. The shafts of the long bones are most frequently attacked, especially the lower end of the femur, the tibia, and the humerus. The nature of the local mischief may not at first be recognised and the affection may be mistaken for acute rheumatism, but the deep-seated intense pain which becomes agonizing on the least attempt at handling soon makes it probable that the periosteum is affected. The soft parts covering the bone become swollen and oedema- tous, the skin white and waxy looking, and later dusky red, clearly indicating the presence of deep-seated suppuration. From abscess, however, it cannot always be diagnosed, except by an exploratory incision which will disclose bare bone. Should one of the neighbouring joints become involved the symptoms become more urgent and the local signs of acute arthritis supervene. Signs of blood-poisoning now frequently manifest themselves, and the patient may rapidly succumb to septicsemia or pyaemia. Should recovery take place it is usually with the loss of considerable portions of bone, and after months of su:ffering, or it may be with a stiff joint or the loss of a limb. Treatment.—Immediately the nature of the disease is discovered a free incision should be made to the bone under the strictest antiseptic precautions, and the wound dressed with sal alembroth gauze or similar antiseptic material. Abundant fluid nourishment, and probably stimulants, will be required with large doses of quinine if symptoms of blood-poisoning supervene. Should a joint become involved and suppurate it must be laid freely open and dressed antiseptically; whilst if the wound leading to the dead bone becomes septic, and signs of saprsemia occur, the question of amputation must be raised. The