DISEASES or REGIONS. CAS through, a properly-planned incision made in the loin. In severe cases in which the paralysis of the lower limbs continues, in spite of absolute rest and recumbency, the spines and laminse of the affected vertebrae may be excised for the purpose of relieving pressure on the cord. [Laminectomy.) Several successful cases have now been recorded. OcciPiTO-ATLOiD, and ATLO-AXOID DISEASE, are terms applied to tuberculous or strumous inflammation attacking the articulations between the occipital bone and the atlas, and the atlas and the axis respectively. Hence the disease resembles in its course tuberculous disease of the joints, rather than tuberculous disease of the bodies of the vertebrae. It may begin either in the synovial membranes, or as caries of the bones forming the arti- cular processes, and when occurring between the atlas and the axis usually affects the synovial membranes between the odontoid process and the transverse ligament on the one hand, and the tubercle of the atlas on the other. Indeed in this situation it would appear to often begin as a caries of the odontoid process itself, and then spread to the synovial membranes. The disease is often attributed to a sprain of the neck, but though it may sometimes be excited by such, would appear more pro- bably to depend on causes similar to those leading to tuberculous disease elsewhere. Symptoms.—Pain is first felt over the seat of the disease, and radiating in the course of the nerves emerging from the intervertebral foramina between the affected bones. It is increased on attempting to turn or nod the head, but is relieved by supporting the chin with the hand. Hence the patient often holds his head between his hands, and if asked to rotate it, turns his whole body, keeping his neck stiff and immovable the while. When the disease is chiefly limited to the articulations between the occi- pital bone and the atlas, the pain is principally confined to the region supplied by the suboccipital nerve, and is increased on nodding rather than on rotating the head. As the disease advances, the atlas, with the occipital bone, has a tendency to slip forward on the axis—directly for- ward if both sides are equally diseased, or more to one side if the disease is unilateral. The spine of the axis in consequence appears more prominent than natural, and the head on a plane anterior to that of the rest of the spinal column. Should an abscess form it may point at