DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE AND ANKLE. 479 hollow, sometimes of a projection oyer the site of the semi- lunar cartilage. There is at first commonly some effusion into the joint. In chronic cases the patient may be able to displace and replace the cartilage at will by twisting his knee. The condition may closely simulate a loose body in the joint or a nipped synovial fringe, but the above signs will generally suffice to distinguish it. The diagnosis is, however, sometimes difficult unless the patient is seen at the time the cartilage is displaced. The treatment consists in limiting the movements of the joint to flexion and extension by means of a special form of clamp. In intractable cases the joint may be opened and the displaced cartilage fixed by sutures or removed. The ANKLE.—The astragalus, together with the rest of the bones of the foot, may be dislocated from the socket formed for it by the tibia and libula, in an outward, in- ward, backward, forward, or upward direction. All five varieties are generally complicated by fracture of the fibula, or of the internal malleolus. The outivard and inward varieties will be described under the head of fracture of the fibula (see p. 495). The backward and forivard varieties are rare; the latter especially so. In the former (Fig. 159), the astragalus is either partially or completely driven backwards from its socket, carrying with it, of course, the other bones of the foot; so that the foot appears shortened, the heel prominent, and the tendo Achillis tense. In the forivard variety the astragalus is generally forced only partially from between the malleoli, and the foot appears lengthened, the heel less prominent than natural, and the tendo Achillis relaxed. In the ujQivard variety the tibia and fibula are torn asunder, and the astragalus is forced upwards between them. The* ankle appears widened, the malleoli are almost in contact with the ground, and all motion at the ankle-joint is lost. Treatment—The leg having been flexed and the foot ex- tended to relax the calf-muscles, make extension on the foot whilst an assistant holds the thigh, and then manipu- late the bones into position. If necessary, give an anses- thetic, and cut the tendo Achillis. Place the foot and leg on a back-splint, or, if preferred, on a Oline's or Dupuy- tren's splint. Compound dislocation of the anMe,—In young and healthy subjects an attempt should be made to save the foot, unless the main vessels are torn, or there is much comminution of the bones, or extensive laceration of the