306 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. aneurysm again begins to increase in size, it is clear that the ligature has failed; and it becomes a grave question what further treatment should be undertaken. Should it appear that a large branch is feeding the aneurysm, this should undoubtedly be secured; otherwise the choice will probably lie between—1, pressure upon the artery and aneurysm; 2, the use of Esmarch's bandage; 3, flexion in the case of a popliteal aneurysm ; or if these fail, 4, tying the vessel either above the aneurysm, or above the former ligature; 5, cutting down upon the sac, and securing both ends of the artery; or 6, amputation. Much will turn on each individual case, but the discussion as to a choice of method is too long to be entered upon here. {d,) Inflammation and suppuration of the sac may be met with after pressure, as well as after ligature; and \ although it may occur after the Hunterian operation, is j more frequent in cases where the ligature has been applied close to the sac, or where rapid pressure has been used, j It appears to be due to—1, the spread of inflammation to | the sac from the wound; 2, the formation in the sac of a soft coagulum; or 3, excessive manipulation before the operation. It is ushered in with redness, heat, pain, and swelling of the sac (which has not undergone the usual process of shrinking), and oedema of the surrounding parts. Later the skin gives way, and a mixture of pus and broken-down coagula escapes. It may be accom- panied by hsemorrhage ; but more commonly the vessel has become sealed and no bleediag occurs. The abscess should be opened as soon as pus has formed, a grooved needle being previously inserted if there is doubt on this point. Should haemorrhage occur, the clots must be turned out, and the artery secured above and below, or amputation performed. (e.) Phlebitis may occur from injury to the vein in passing the aneurysm needle. Should the vein be j pricked, an accident which may be known by venous I blood welling up by the side of the ligature, the^ artery should on no account be tied at this spot, as the ligature would act as a seton in the vein, and death possibly ensue from phlebitis or pyaemia. The ligature, if already passed, should be withdrawn, pressure applied to the vein, and the artery tied higher up. Where this treat- ment has been adopted, I have never seen any ill results follow the injury. B. Anel's opebation is seldom done except where