CUTAICEOITS OR SIMPLII EII"^SI1*ELAS. 149 of the body is" similar to that seen in other cases of septic jDoisoning. The organs are congested, and the blood is thin and fluid. , The streptococci are not, as a rule, found in the blood; but the white corpuscles have been observed degenerated, and in some instances forming granular masses, plugging the capillaries of the lungs and brain. Varieties.—Erysipelas may be divided into—1, the cutaneous or simple; 2, the cellulo-cutaneous or phleg- monous ; and 3, the cellular or diffuse cellulitis. 1. Cutaneous or simple erysipelas generally attacks the skin, less commonly the mucous membrane. It is a specific infective disease. The symptoms are local and constitutionaL Local signs.—There is a vivid blush of redness, usually, but not invariably, starting from a wound, and appearing either simultaneously with, or in some instances not till twenty-four to foHy-eight hours after the onset of the constitutional symptoms. The blush has a great tendency to spread, or to suddenly leave one part and attack another {metastasis). The spreading edge is sharply defined and slightly raised above the surrounding skin, whilst the subsiding edge fades off into the healthy skin. The surface is usually at first vividly and uniformly red, oedematous, and shining, the redness fading momentarily on pressure, and later l)ecoming of a dusky hue. The patient complains of a stiffness and stinging heat in the part. In very acute cases the cuticle is raised into blebs by the exudation of serous fluid beneath it, and the nearest lymphatic glands are generally tender and enlarged. Where the tissues are lax, as about the face or scrotum, there is much oedema, but there is little tendency to suppuration. When the inflammation subsides, there is usually some desquamation of the cuticle. The wound itself, if one is present, takes on an unhealthy appearance; it ceases to heal, the edges swell, the granu- lations shrivel, and the surface becomes dry. The constitutional symptoms generally begin w^ith a chill or rigor. The temperatui^e suddenly rises to 103° or 104^, or higher, but it does not fluctuate as in septicaemia and pysemia. The pulse becomes rapid, and there is head- ache, loss of appetite, furred tongue and constipation, or sometimes diarrhoea. Terminations.—The erysipelas as a rule gradually sub- sides, and the patient recovers; or it may spread over a large area, and the patient sink into a low typhoid state,