375 INTEACRANIAL INFLAMMATION. those of compression, the pupils becoming dilated and fixed, the pulse slow, and the breathing stertorous. Then follow paralysis, stupor, coma and death. Eigors will probably occur should pus form. In the chronic form of inflammation the symptoms are similar to those of the acute, but of less severity, and are later, as a rule, in making their appearance. Complete recovery may have apparently taken place, or there may have been headache or irritability of temper previous to the symptoms setting in. Is there any way of localizing the inflammation 1. If ten to twenty days have elapsed since the injury; if the onset of the symptoms is sudden, though preceded perhaps by some headache; if there is a puffy swelling over the seat of injury, due to the separation of the pericranium from the bone by serous efcsion; if the bone, should it be exposed, looks dry, white, and discoloured, or the wound unhealthy; and if the paralysis is localized,—the inflam- mation is probably between the bone and dura mater, and if a rigor has occurred, pus has probably formed. 2. If, on the other hand, there is no apparent injury of the scalp or bone; if the patient has had concussion; and if the symptoms set in a few hours after the injury,—the inflammation is probably in the brain or pia mater, where it has arisen in consequence of increased vascularity following the concussion. Or if the symptoms come on about the fourth or fifth day after the injury, when it had apparently been recovered from, the inflammation will probably be also in the brain or pia mater, but in this case due to contusion or laceration of the brain. 3. If, again, the symptoms are delayed some weeks, if there is optic neuritis or symptoms of disturbance of one or more of the motor areas, the inflammation is probably localized to some portion of the brain, and if a rigor has occurred, a cerebral abscess has probably formed. The treatment may be divided into the preventive and the curative. The former consists briefly in guarding against the occurrence of septic changes in the wound if one is present, and in preventing congestion of the brain and its membranes by the means already indicated (see p. 360). The first signs of inflammation should be actively combated by a calomel purge, leeches to the temples and an ice-bag to the head; whilst pain should be subdued and sleep promoted by the cautious use of opium. The curative treatment consists in evacuating the products of the inflammation, should such, in spite of the preventive