i SCIRRHOUS CANCER OF THE BREAST. 843 puckered and unmistakably adherent to the growth. In the earlier stages the tumour glides freely over the pec- H toral muscle ; later a slight resistance is felt on moving it from side to side; whilst finally it becomes firmly fixed to the walls of the chest. The nipple, when the growth is behind it, is retracted, in consequence of the traction which is made by the carcinoma upon the lacteal ducts (Fig. 323); but when the growth is situated in the circumference of the breast, there may be no retraction, or the retraction may occur only on one side; whilst when the cancer begins as an infiltration of the nipple itself, the latter will be harder and more prominent than natural. On raising the arm and drawing the finger-tips transversely across the inner side of the axilla, a hard cord or cords— infiltrated lymphatic vessels—may often be felt extending from the tumour into the axilla, while in the space itself large glands will be discovered if the case is sufficiently advanced. The glands are at first soft, single, and dis- tinct, later, hard and matted together, forming an in- durated irregular mass which is often adherent to the chest-walls and in advanced cases extends as high as can be felt beneath the clavicle. In the supraclavicular space the enlarged glands may sometimes be detected, first as a mere fulness, subsequently as distinct swellings. After the skin over the tumour has given way, an ulcer with sinuous, irregular, everted, and indurated edges, and a foul, cavernous, irregular, and indurated base is formed, from which is exuded a foul-smelling and sanious discharge. The skin around is indurated from infiltration with the growth ; or distinct, circumscribed, hard nodules of carcinoma are scattered here and there through it. Diagnosis.—When the above signs are present there is no difficulty in pronouncing as to the nature of the disease. In the earlier stages, however, whilst the tumour is still small and has not yet become adherent to the skin or to the pectoral muscle, where the breast is large and there is no retraction of the nipple and as yet there is no en- largement of the axillary glands, the diagnosis from an innocent tumour, a tense cyst, or lobular inflammation will be, to say the least, difficult. The age of the patient, the rate of growth, and the history of the case must then to a great extent be relied on for distinguishing it. But where the patient, as is occasionally the case, is young, the diagnosis may then be impossible without making an ' incision into the growth, a proceeding which, under such