STRICTTTRE OP THE CESOPHAGUS. to a bolus of food larger than usual exists, and at which ''developmental processes are complicated, and where, therefore, errors of nutrition are more likely to occur." Thus, at the cardiac orifice the epithelium changes its character; and where the oesophagus is crossed by the bronchus the food and air passages were originally one. Epithelioma may begin as a distinct cauliflower-like ex- crescence springing from one side of the tube; or as a nodular induration of the mucous membrane involving ring-like the whole calibre of the oesophagus. It gra- dually encroaches upon the lumen of the tube causing more or less complete obstruction. The growth sooner or later ulcerates, and invades the surrounding tissues, the mediastinum, pleura and glands; and sinuses may form between the oesophagus and the trachea or left bronchus, or open externally when the disease is high up in the neck. The patient, if he does not die of starvation, succumbs to pain or exhaustion, or to hsemorrhage from the laying open of a large vessel, or to pleurisy or pneu- monia. The symptoms, common to both the fibrous and malig- nant stricture, are,—1, increasing difiiculty of swallow- ing, first of solids, then of liquids, and finally inability to swallow either; 2, a feeling of obstruction, generally referred to the top of the sternum; 8, regurgitation of food after it has been swallowed for a short time (where the stricture is low down or pouch-like dilatations have formed); 4, a trickling sound on auscultation between the shoulders whilst the patient is swallowing fluid, and 5, progressive wasting and loss of strength. The diagnosis, however, can only be made with certainty, and the situa- tion of the stricture ascertained, by the passage of a bougie. But before attempting to pass a bougie, a careful examination of the chest should be made for the purpose of excluding aneurysm as a cause of the symptoms, lest such should be ruptured as has before now happened. The diagnosis of the malignant from the fibrous stricture will rest on the advanced age of the patient, the absence ! of any discoverable injury, the presence of blood or foul- smelling discharge on the end of the bougie, a sensation of passing over an ulcerated surface, and the presence of enlarged glands or an indurated mass in the situation of the tube when the stricture occurs in the neck. Treatment.—In the fibrous form the stricture should be gradually dilated by bougies. When the stricture is very w. B. R