385 WOUNDS OF THE JTECK. will depend upon the situation, depth, and extent of the wound. Thus, 1. When the wound is made above the hyoid bone the tongue may be severed, and the muscles that depress the jaw and elevate the hyoid bone divided together with the lingual or facial arteries and hypoglossal nerve. Such a wound will gape widely, and may open into the mouth, the food and saliva then escaping freely through it. 2. When the wound is through the thyro-hyoid membrane the pharynx will be opened, and the epiglottis, aryepi- glottidean folds or arytenoid cartilages, the superior thy- roid and lingual arteries, and the superior laryngeal nerve may be cut through. The wound gapes less than in the preceding situation, but allows of the escape of food and saliva. There is usually great difficulty in swallowing. 3. When the wound is through the cartilages, the vocal cords and one or other of the intrinsic laryngeal muscles may be divided, with consequent loss of voice; the carti- lages themselves, moreover, may be variously displaced. There is as a rule but little haemorrhage. 4. When the wound is made below the cricoid cartilage the depressor muscles of the larynx, the inferior or superior thyroid artery, and the thyroid and anterior jugular veins may be wounded, the trachea partly or entirely cut across, and even the oesophagus implicated. Wherever the wound is situated the carotid arteries generally escape owing to the resistance of the cartilages of the larynx, the deep situation of the carotids, and the contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscles. , Bangers.—The immediate dangers are—1. Haemorrhage, When the carotid artery or jugular vein is wounded death is generally, though not invariably, instantaneous; but even when no large vessel is implicated, death before help is obtained is frequent from haemorrhage from some of the arteries above mentioned, the external jugular vein, &c. 2. Ohstruction to respiration in consequence of (a) the blood entering the air-passages in larger quantities than the patient can cough up; (6), the lolling back of the tongue over the glottis ; (c), the displacement of the cartilages; ((i), the separation of the divided portions of the trachea. 3. Entrance of air into the veins is also an occasional danger. The subsequent dangers are—1. (Edema- tous laryngitis; 2. Bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia; 3. Inflammation and suppuration of the loose tissues of the neck even extending to the mediastinum or pleura, and, still later, 4. Obstruction of the air-passage with increas- w. c c