iRACTUBE OF. THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 361 the raising of the depressed fragments under nearly all circumstances, even when there is no external wound ; as although many cases of depressed fracture undoubtedly recover, nevertheless, inflammation of the brain and its membranes, or if this danger is escaped, subsequent trouble, such as long-continued headache, progressive mental inability, or even epilepsy and insanity, may ensue from the irritation of the depressed bone. In punc- tured fracture the trephine should always be applied, as here the fragments are driven vertically inwards (see Fig. 98), and though they may not have punctured the dura mater, will invariably set up inflammation if not removed. In fracture of the internal table, too, the trephine ought to be applied; but this form of fracture is seldom diagnosed. After any kind of fracture the patient should be care- fully watched for a month or six weeks, and even though no complications are present at first, the greatest care should be exercised, and any indiscretion in diet, abuse of stimulants, or undue mental excitement, should be avoided. 2. Fracture of the base is generally caused by a blow or fall upon the vault, the fissure extending from the part struck to the base; or it may be due to a fall upon the feet or nates, the fracture being then produced by the shock transmitted to the occipital bone through the spine. Earely it has been caused by a sharp instru- ment, as a sword thrust through the roof of the orbit or nose, or by a blow on the lower jaw fracturing the glenoid cavity or forcing the condyle through it. As a rule the anterior, middle or posterior fossa is found frac- tured, according as the blow falls upon the anterior, middle, or posterior part of the vault of the skull. Should the force, however, be very severe, fissures may radiate from the seat of injury to two, or even to all three fossae. Fractures through the middle fossa gene- rally involve the petrous portion of the temporal bone on one or both sides of the skull. Thus they frequently extend through the internal and external auditory meatus and walls of the tympanum, lacerating the prolongation of dura mater contained in the internal auditory meatus, the reflexion of the arachnoid around the seventh pair of nerves, and the membrana tympani, and so allow of the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid from the external audi- tory meatus. The fracture may also involve the lateral