71 TUMOUKS. or chondrification or ossification may ensue, or fat be deposited in the cells, and the tumour become indis- tinguishable in structure from normal cartilage, bone or fat {enchondroma, osteoma^ lipoma). Tumours springing from epithelium not only retain the character of epithe- lium, but likewise that of the special form of epithelium from which they are derived. Thus they resemble squamous epithelium when derived from the skin, sphe- roidal epithelium when from a gland. Cause.—Little is actually known of the etiology of tumours. Some forms however appear undoubtedly to be due to local causes, sach as 1, long continued irritation; 2, chronic inflammation; and 3, injury; but whether these conditions are in themselves capable of producing tumours unless the patient is otherwise in some unknown way predisposed to tumour-formation is still perhaps open to question. The presence in the completely developed tissues of embryonic remains which from Isome un- explained cause have taken on active growth later in life, and the action of some unknown form of parasite or ferment are also regarded by some pathologists as local causes. Tumours have further been ascribed to such constitutional causes as hereditary predisposition, the activity of tissue-growth in early life, the slow degenera- tion of advancing age, and the lessened resisting power of the tissues that may be occasioned by such depressing influences as grief, anxiety, or mental strain. Eesidence in certain localities is considered by some observers to be a predisposing cause of some forms of malignant tumour. Clinical course.—Clinically, tumours are spoken of as innocent and malignant, I. Innocent tumours as a rule grow slowly, and resemble the fully-formed tissues of the body, and usually those amongst which they grow. They are generally encapsuled, circumscribed, and freely moveable, merely displacing the tissues around, not infiltrating them. They do not involve the lymphatic glands, nor become disseminated in distant organs; neither do they recur if completely removed. They may, however, attain a large size and destroy life by pressing upon a vital organ, or in other ways interfering with its functions. II. Malignant tumours, on the other hand, grow rapidly, do not resemble the fully-formed tissues in structure, and differ markedly in appearance from the, tissues in which they grow. They are generally non- encapsuled and infiltrate the surrounding parts, whether