DISEASES OE THE TONGUE. 567 which need not be deep, should be made along the dorsum of the tongue, and the swelling will usually subside in a few hours. SuppuiiATiON' and abscess sometimes follow an attack of acute glossitis; but the preceding inflammation may be so slight as to be overlooked. The abscess, which then forms a firm, tense, elastic swelling in the sub- stance of the tongue, may be mistaken for a gumma or carcinoma; but the diagnosis is readily made by an exploratory puncture. A free incision is the proper treatment, the cavity filling up in a few days. Ohronio supereicial GLOSSITIS, also known as psoriasis, ichthyosis, or leucoplakia of the tongue, is a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane, and may be induced by syphilis, excessive smoking, some forms of dyspepsia, the abuse of spirits, jagged teeth, &c. It begins as a hypersemia of the papillary layer, and presents at this stage slightly-raised red patches better seen if the tongue be dried. This is followed by excessive growth of epithelium, the cells of which assume a horny character, and the patches which were previously red, become bluish white, and later, opaque white. Several of the patches may now coalesce, covering in severe cases the whole or greater part of the dorsum of the tongue. It is this condition to which the term psoriasis has been applied from its superficial resemblance to psoriasis of the skin. Still later, from excessive heaping up of the epithelium, the surface of the organ becomes cracked and nodular, simulating ichthyosis, a name by which it has also been called. As the pathology of the affection, however, is distinct from that of the above-named affections of the skin, it would be better to drop these terms, and to call the affection either leucoplakia [ivhite patches) or chronic glossitis. After variable periods, the hypertrophied papillae may atrophy, or ulceration may occur; or the epithelium may grow into the substance of the tongue and the disease become epitheliomatous. At times the inflammation does not give rise to an increase of epithe- lium, the tongue then appearing smooth, glazed, and red. The disease, except when ulceration occurs, causes little or no pain, and often gives rise to no inconvenience ; but it should always be carefully watched for any sign of its becoming epitlEieliomatous. A similar condition of the mucous surface of the lips and cheeks is a common accompaniment, especially in smokers {smoker's patches).