WOUNDS OF NEEYES. 215 sequence of polar reaction is altered {ACOCCC, instead of CCOAOC). Their response, however, to the con- tinuous current becomes less and less till they finally cease to contract at all. As a consequence of the dege- neration of the affected muscles their opponents undergo adaptive shortening, thus producing various deformities as for example the hammer fingers [main en griffe) seen after division of the ulnar nerve. The treatment varies according as the wound of the nerve is recent or of long standing. In the former case the nerve should be sought in the wound, the divided ends sutured, the limb placed at rest on a splint in such a posi- tion that the united ends are not subjected to tension, and every effort subsequently made to obtain healing of the wound of the soft parts by the first intention. If the divided ends of the nerve are lacerated or contused, the injured portions should be cleanly cut away before apply- ing the sutures. If the nerve is only partially divided the divided parts should be sutured. The sutures, consist- ing of fine China twist, should be passed with a small curved needle through the sheath of the nerve in four or five places. At St. Bartholomew's one of the sutures is generally passed completely through the nerve, a quarter of an inch from the divided ends, to ensure a better hold. In every recent wound it should be as much a matter of routine to suture large nerves if divided, as to tie wounded arteries. If the nerve does not unite, an attempt may be made to procure union after the wound has healed, as may also be done in long-standing cases of non-union, though many months or even a year or two may have elapsed. An incision over the ununited ends should be made parallel to the nerve, the bulbous upper end of which can generally be felt through the soft tissues. The ends, which may have retracted so as to be as much as an inch apart, should be sought, the bulbous end shaved away little by little with a sharp scalpel till ■ plenty of nerve-fibres are seen on the surface of the section, the lower end also refreshed and the two united in the manner described above. "Where the ends are embedded in much cicatricial tissue they should be freed by careful dissection, and when much separated stretched so as to bring them into apposition. If the nerve is only partially divided, and the divided portions are bound down by cicatricial tissue, the injured segment of nerve, in its entire thickness, should be cut away before applying the