16 GENERAL PATHOLOGY 01' SURGICAL DISEASES. adhesive, suppurative, and ulcerative, according to its termination, &c. The treatmeot of inflamination may be divided into the Preventive and the Curative, The former will be dis- cussed under the Treatment of wounds. Curative treatment. — This must necessarily vary ac- cording to the character and situation of the inflammation and the type of constitutional disturbance. Here only are given the indications which should guide us in the general management of the case. Our first endeavour where practicable should be to remove the cause. Thus a foreign body in the tissues, such as a thorn in the finger, should be extracted; tension should be relieved; a free drain established for any pent-up and decomposing discharges; exit given to extravasated secretions, as putrid urine and the like; irritating applications, as strong antiseptics, exchanged for less irritating dressings; and such constitutional causes as syphilis, gout, &c., treated by appropriate remedies. When the cause can be thus removed and fresh sources of irritation avoided, the inflammation will tend of itself to cease. Where such cannot be done, we should endeavour in the second place to prevent the complete loss of vitality of the already injured tissues and to restore their healthy nutrition. For this purpose our efforts should be principally directed to controlling the supply of blood to the part, and reducing the blood pressure in the damaged blood-vessels in order to lessen the escape of leucocytes and serum, the pressure of which on the vessels and tissues may lead to the death of the part, whilst the tension to which they give rise is a fertile source of fresh irritation and consequently of the continuance of the inflammation. Further, we should aim at counteracting this injurious pressure and tension by facilitating the draining away of the products of in- flammation ; whilst we should seek to promote the return of healthy nutrition to the inflamed tissues by endeavour- ing to remedy such constitutional defects, which, as we have seen, by lowering their vitality act as predisposing causes. Thirdly, we should not lose sight of the impor- tant indication to relieve pain. And lastly, whilst direct- ing our efforts to the treatment of the local inflammation, we must modify our remedies according to the type of constitutional disturbance to which it may give rise. General remedies,—The means at our disposal for fulfill- ing the above indications are both local and constitutional.