239 RICKETS. there islets of cartilage wliich liave escaped ossification, whilst its medulla is abnormally yascular. It is to the excessive formation of this proliferating layer of cartilage and ill-formed bone immediately underlying it that the enlargement of the ends of the long bones and the beading of the ribs so characteristic of rickets is due. Microsco- pically the cartilage-cells in the bluish zone are seen en- larged, and instead of being arranged in regular columns are grouped irregularly; whilst the calcification of the ma- trix between them is also seen proceeding in an irregular manner, so that calcified or ossified patches exist here and there where all should be cartilage, and portions of cartilage where all should be bone. The vascular medullary spaces which are continuous with these chan- nels in the shaft likewise project in an irregular manner into the cartilage, and the laminse of bone formed from the osteoblasts lining these spaces are deficient in earthy salts. Under the periosteum, the superficial layers of which are unaffected, similar soft bone is laid down in consequence of the osteoblastic layer, though increased in thickness, producing osteogenetic fibres deficient in earthy salts. Hence, whilst all the bones are more or less softened, the long bones become swollen at their ends, and the flat bones thickened especially along their line of suture. The liver, spleen and lymphatic glands are often enlarged from irregular increase of their fibrous elements, and the muscles are generally soft, flabby and wasted. Symptoms. — Eickets is most frequently met with between the ages of eighteen months and two and a half years. Among the early symptoms may be noticed sweating of the forehead and perhaps of the upper part of the body, throwing off of the bedclothes from a desire of the child to be cool, a general restlessness, and often an excessive tenderness on handling and aversion to move- ment. Sometimes large quantities of phosphate of lime are found in the urine. The abdomen is generally en- larged, and there is frequently some gastric catarrh and flatulence. The swelling of the ends of the long bones, especially of the lower end of the radius and tibia, the beading of the ribs where they join the cartilages, and the thickening of the cranial bones along their line of suture are characteristic of the disease. Later, bending of the bones occurs. Thus, the long bones generally give in the direction of their normal curves and near the epiphyses,