WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 417 toneal surfaces thus placed in contact unite by adhesive -inflammation. The sutures either remain encysted, or ulcerate through the mucous membrane, and drop into the interior of the bowel. It is not safe to suture the wound—(1) when the wound runs longitudinally along the mesenteric aspect, inasmuch as gangrene of the part cut off from its vascular supply will inevitably ensue; (2) when suturing would reduce the lumen of the gut to more than half its normal size ; (3) when there is much bruising of the gut; (4) when there are several wounds close together. In such cases the injured portion of the intestine should be excised and the two ends united by circular enterorrhaphy or an intestinal anastomosis formed. Circular enterorrhajphy is the union of the ends of the completely-divided intestine with the peritoneal surfaces in contact by a row of sutures around the circumference of the bowel. The Lembert method of a single row and the Czerny-Lembert method of a double row have in recent years usually been employed. The objection to these methods are the great number of sutures, and hence the length of time required for the operation^a serious drawback in abdominal cases—and the danger of extravasation at the mesenteric attachment. It would be better therefore to employ Senn's modification of Jobert's suture. Having determined which is the upper end of the intestine, as by applying to the surface of the peritoneal coat a little common salt, which causes ascending peristalsis (Nothnagel's test), line the lower end of the upper portion of the bowel with a soft pliable rubber ring half an inch wide, made by stitching together the ends of a rubber band by two catgut sutures. Fix the ring by sewing its lower margin with a continuous catgut suture to the cut-end of the bowel; the ring prevents bulging of the mucous membrane and causes the end of the bowel to slightly taper, and thus aids its subsequent invagination (Fig. 115). Pass two catgut sutures with a needle at each end from within outwards through the upper margin of the ring and all the coats of the bowel, one suture near the mesenteric, one near the convex surface of the bowel. Pass the other end of the sutures through the peritoneal and muscular coat of the lower portion of the bowel about a third of an inch from its cut margin. Whilst an assistant draws on the four ends of the two sutures turn in the margin of the upper end of the lower portion of the gut evenly by the aid of a £ E