STTRGICAL METHODS OF ARKESTINa BiEMORRHAGE. 131 adopted. The new styptic, consisting of a solution of fibrin ferment (1 to 10) to which, calcium chloride 1 p. c. has been added, is said to act only on the blood not on the tissues, and to be perfectly aseptic. It was found by Mr. Wright to l)e effectual in arresting haemorrhage after the division of all the veins except the common jugular in a dog's neck. 5.. The cautery arrests bleeding in part by causing the ml^rctiaf coat of the artery to contract, in part by inducing coagulation of the blood, and in part by charring the tissues and so producing an eschar which checks or prevents the flow of blood. The wound should be first dried by pressure with lint, and then immediately touched lightly with the cautery, which should be at a dull red heat, as, if used hotter than this, it simply destroys the Fig. 30.—Liier's Artery forceps. tissues without producing the above e:ffects, and the hsemorrhage continues. It may be applied in the form of the cautery-iron, which is simply heated in the fire; but Paquelin's benzoline cautery and the galvano-cautery are much more convenient. The chief objection to the use of the cautery is that it causes destruction of the tissues around, and on the separation of the resulting eschar secondary haemorrhage is liable to ensue. The cautery should never be used in a clean cut wound. 6. Ligature is the most reliable method of permanently arresting Haemorrhage, and is the one most frequently employed. Silk, China twist, whipcord, carbolized and chromicized catgut, kangaroo-tail-tendon, and ox-aorta are the materials chiefly used as ligatures. Of these chromicized catgut, if rendered aseptic in the way men- tioned at page 110, answers admirably for securing the cut ends of arteries in amputation and other wounds. For the ligature of arteries, in their continuity the choice of ligature is still open to question, and will be referred to again under ligature of arteries. Whatever form of ligature is used it should not be too thick, or the internal and middle coats will be unevenly divided or may escape division altogether. At the same time it should be strong K 2