ACUTE lOTLAMMATlOK OF THE TESTICLE. 811 perhaps calcified, and the patient is old or broken down in constitution, excision of the testicle is then called for, I as otherwise long-continned suppuration, which may ter- minate in exhaustion and death, may ensue. Where suppuration has occurred, a free incision should, under I any circumstances, at once be made, i Acute inelammation oe the testicle is generally i spoken of as orchitis, or as epididymitis according as the body or the epididymis is primarily or chiefly affected. Causes.—Gonorrhoea is the most frequent cause; but ' injury of the testicle, or irritation of the prostatic urethra, as from the tying in of a catheter, or from the impaction of a calculus or fragment of a calculus, are not uncommon I causes. Orchitis sometimes occurs during an attack of mumps, and is then said to be due to metastasis. It has also been attributed to the use of strong injections for the cure of gonorrhoea. How inflammation of the testicle is induced by the irritation of the urethra is a disputed j question. It is variously taught, however, that it is due to—1, inflammation spreading along the vas; 2, reflex irritation; and 3, metastasis. Pathology.—The walls of the tubules and the inter- j tubular connective tissue become infiltrated with inflam- I matory products, and the tubules filled with desquamated i epithelium. Eesolution usually occurs, leaving the I testicle little or not at all impaired either in structure or function. Suppuration, however, is occasionally induced; I and when the epididymis is chiefly involved, the inflam- I matory material, in place of being absorbed, may be converted into fibrous tissue, which, subsequently con- tracting, may cause obstruction of the tubules of the epididymis. Such may be known to have occurred by the presence of a small hard lump in the region of the globus minor or major. An effusion of fluid into the i tunica vaginalis {acute hydrocele) is very common, but I more so in epididymitis than in orchitis, because the I visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis is in contact with the inflamed tissue in the former case, but is separated ! from it by the thick tunica albuginea in the latter. I Signs,—In a well-marked case there is intense pain in j the testicle, with a dragging or aching pain in the groin and along the course of the cord. The testicle is swollen, and exquisitely tender on handling ; the cord feels slightly thickened; and the skin of the scrotum is oedematous and I of a dusky-red colour. When the inflammation falls on