335 the one hand and the veins on the other. They form distinct tumours bound together by delicate connective tissue sometimes containing fat. The blood in them is of a dark venous colour. They are generally subcutaneous, but may likewise occur beneath a mucous membrane. They are always congenital. They appear as irregular, nodular, soft, compressible tumours, easily emptied by pressure, but quickly refilling, and swelling up on coughing or crying. When under a mucous membrane they are of a bluish-purple colour. The skin or mucous membrane covering them may be natural, or it may be alfected with the capillary variety of nsevus. Their favourite seats are the lips, cheeks, scalp, organs of generation, back, and nates. They may gradually mcrease m size, remain stationary, or undergo a spontaneous cure. Treatment.—The indications are to remove or to destroy the nsevus with as little scarring as possible. This may be done by, 1, excision with the knife; 2, ligature; 3, coagulating injections; 4, setons; 5, electrolysis. 1. Excision with the knife is a rapid, painless^ and effective method, and where, as in the lip, by removing a Y-shaped piece a mere linear scar is left, is, perhaps, the best. To avoid haemorrhage, however, the incision should be made wide of the growth. 2. Ligature is a sure, simple, and safe method, but is painful, slow, and leaves a scar. The ligature may be applied in several ways. All that can here be said is that the ligature should consist of whip-cord or China silk; * that it should be applied with a nsevus needle, either subcutaneously, or, if this is impracticable, through an incision made in the skin round the neevus; and that it should be tied tightly in a reef knot to ensure complete strangulation. 3. Coagulating injections, — The materials most often used are perchloride of iron, carbolic acid, and chloride of zinc. Only a drop or two should be injected, as other- wise sloughing may occur, or the coagulation may spread to the blood in the veins, and embolism, resulting perhaps in sudden death, may ensue. To avoid this accident the base of the neevus must be compressed by a clamp or a ligature during and for a short time after the operation. 4. Setons.—A simple thread, or one soaked in per- chloride of iron, passed through the nsevus and lett in