DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS. 529 some affection of the conjunctiva or tarsus, or by spasm of the palpebral portion of the orbicularis muscle. The most frequent result of entropion is trichiasis (turning in of the lashes) giving rise to pannus, ulceration of the cornea, &c. Eyersion oe the Eyelid {Ectropion) is due to atrophy of the palpebral portion of the orbicularis muscle, to swelling of the conjunctiva, or to cicatricial contraction. Numerous operations have been planned for ectropion and entropion and the consequent faulty position of the lashes. In addition to the above affections, the eyelids may be acutely inflamed and swollen owing to erythema, erysipelas, acute cellulitis, herpes ophthalmicus, and abscess ; they may also be the seat of maKgnant (rodent and epitheliomatous), lupous, and syphilitic (primary and tertiary) ulcers. Yellow patches of xanthelasma, espe- cially over the inner canthus, are found in elderly people. The lids may also be affected by molluscum contagiosum, warts, translucent cysts, and cutaneous horns. The LACHRYMAL APPARATUS consists of the lachrymal gland and its ducts situated at the upper and external angle of the orbit, and the drainage system, which in- cludes the puncta, canaliculi, lachrymal sac and nasa. duct. The lachrymal gland may be the seat of acute or chronic inflammation, and may also be affected by hyper- trophy, or sarcoma. The chief lachrymal troubles, how- ever, are associated with the drainage system, and the most marked symptom is that of watery eye {Epiphora), The puncta may be everted or inverted by changes in the lid, or stenosed from inflammation, &c. The canaliculi may be narrowed by inflammatory changes or cicatri- zation after injury, or obstructed by cilia, concretions, &c. The entrance of the canaliculi into the sac is a very common place for stenosis. The lachrymal sac may be affected by inflammation spreading from the conjunctival or nasal mucous membrane. This may be accompanied ' by stricture of the nasal duct, and sometimes gives rise to a collection of mucus in the sac {mucocele), and presents as a fluctuating swelling near the inner canthus. On pressing over the swelling the fluid can usually be squeezed out through the puncta. A lachrymal abscess often follows a mucocele; the symptoms are then tense swelling and redness of the integument in the neighbour- hood of the lachrymal sac. The treatment for stenosis of the w. M M