14 GEN^EHAL PATHOLOGY 01^ StiRGICAL t)ISEASES. scanty and high-coloured urine, headache, perhaps de- lirium, and a general feeling of malaise. When the inflammation is slight there may be no fever; but when it is at all intense, or occurs in an important part, the fever is generally considerable, and in septic and infective inflammations is by far the most anxious symptom. Inflammatory fever has been divided into the sthenic, asthenic, and the irritative or nervous. In the sthenic the symptoms are acute, the temperature is high (104° or 105°), and the pulse full, strong and bounding. In the asthenic the symptoms assume what is called a typhoid character; the temperature falls, the tongue becomes brown and dry, the lips and teeth are covered with sordes, and the pulse is quick, soft, and feeble. In the irritative there is, in addition to either of the above set of symp- toms, delirium, violent in the one case, or low and muttering in the other, and a general nervous state. The cause of the fever has been variously explained. In simple inflammation it may be due: 1, in part to tissue-change caused by the presence in the blood of free fibrin ferment (a substance known to possess pyrogenic or fever-producing properties), which is supposed to be derived from the escaped leucocytes and drained away in the serum from the inflamed part by the lymphatics; and, 2, in part to disturbance of the heat-regulating centre in the brain, induced either reflexly, through the sensory nerves, as when there is much pain and tension in the inflamed part, or directly, by the action on it of the deteriorated blood. In septic inflammations the absorption of the products of fermentation or putre- faction, as from a septic or ill-drained wound, has no doubt a large share in the production of the fever, which is then spoken of as septic [septic fever, saproimia); whilst in the infective inflammations the presence of micro- organisms is believed to be the chief factor (see Septi- ccemia and Fi/cemia), Varieties of inflammation. — Inflammation may be divided into the acute and chronic according to its intensity and duration; the acute again into the simple, the septic, and the infective. "What has already been said applies chiefly to the acute variety. The chronic is dis- cussed separately later on. Simple or traumatic inflammation is that which remains localized to a limited area, and subsides without suppura- tion as soon as the cause is removed. It is commonly