54 GEI^ERAL PATHOLOGY 0^ SUHGlCAL DISEASES. but iinstmiulating witli plenty of milk and cream, whilst cod-liver oil or maltine and the syrup of the iodide or phosphate of iron are especially indicated. Koch's tuberculin has now had extensive trial in sur- gical tubercular affections. My own experience of it has been unfavourable, and such would appear to be that of the majority of Surgeons. A grave objection is the danger of setting up general tuberculosis. The local treatment required for the various lesions that may be present is given when describing these lesions as they occur in special tissues and organs. STEUMA OR SCROEULA. The terms struma and scrofula are here used synony- mously. To prevent confusion the former, as perhaps the one in more general use, will be subsequently employed. By struma or strumous is generally understood a consti- tutional condition or diathesis, in which, on very slight provocation, chronic inflammations of certain tissues and organs, preferably skin, mucous membrane, lymphatic glands, bones, joints and testicle are set up, run an in- dolent course, and have a marked tendency to caseation and suppuration. By many pathologists, however, these chronic inflammatory processes, which have been supposed to be characteristic of struma, are considered to be in themselves of a tuberculous nature, and dependent on the presence of the tubercle bacillus; whilst what is here called the strumous diathesis is regarded by them merely as a phase of ill-health or malnutrition, favourably disposing the subject to tubercular infection. Such observers, therefore, regard the terms strumous and tuberculous as synonymous. The histological characters and the general behaviour of many of the so-called strumous inflamma- tions are no doubt in many respects similar, if not identical, to those which are on all hands regarded as tuberculous, and in many of them the tubercle bacillus has been found. In others, however, even after a careful search, it has not been discovered; and if, therefore, the presence of the tubercle bacillus is to be taken as dis- tinctive evidence of tubercle, all the so-called strumous inflammations are not tuberculous. The constitutional condition or diathesis, moreover, regarded by surgeons as strumous, is certainly something more, though difiicult