DISEASES OF EEGIONS. tigM, a catgut bougie may sometimes by delicate manipu- lation be insinuated through it; and over this a larger tube may then be passed. When the stricture is very resilient its division posteriorly in the middle line may be called for {internal oesophagotomy). When the stricture is situated at the cardiac end, and a well directed trial at dilatation has failed, gastrostomy may be performed, and the stricture forcibly dilated by the finger or an instru- ment passed into the oesophagus from the interior of the stomach. It need hardly be said that so serious an opera- tion should not be lightly undertaken, nor until other means have failed. In malignant stricture dilatation by bougies or tubes, in the way recommended in fibrous stricture, must not be attempted, as the walls of the oesophagus are so softened by the ulceration and disease that great danger of perforation and extravasation into the mediastinum or pleura would be incurred. The methods of treatment then open to us are—1, to pass an oesophagus tube and keep it in situ ; 2, to perform gastrostomy ; and 3, when the stricture occurs in the neck to open the oeso- phagus in the neck, if possible below the seat of stricture, and stitch the tube to the wound in the skin; or if not possible to get below the stricture, to dilate it from the wound. When a soft tube can be passed and kept in situ this appears to be undoubtedly the best treatment. The tube may be introduced through the mouth or nose, and under favourable circumstances will not need changing for a month or more. Occasionally, however, it causes irritation of the back of the tongue or larynx, or of the mucous membrane of the nose. Should this occur, Mr. Charters Symonds' plan may be adopted of passing, by means of a suitable director, a short tube, shaped like a funnel at one end, into the stricture, and leaving it there merely attached by a strong string, which is secured to the cheek or ear by strapping (Fig. 231). Care must be taken that the patient does not swallow the string, an accident which has happened during this treatment. Excellent results have followed the use of tubes; patients have regained flesh, have fairly enjoyed life for some months, and then have died in comparative ease. When a tube cannot be passed, or is not tolerated, the oesophagus, if the disease is high in the neck, may be opened, or if the disease is low down, gastrostomy performed. GrASTROSTOMY is the Operation of establishing a fistulous opening into the stomach for the purpose of feeding the