INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 216 sutures. In some instances sensation may return within twenty-four hours of suture; but it may be more than a year in long-standing cases before the function of the nerve is restored. In the meanwhile the nutrition of the parts supplied by it should be promoted by warmth, and the muscles prevented as much as possible from de- generating by galvanism, massage, friction, and passive movements. Transplantation of nerves or nerve-grafting.—Becently Mr. Mayo Eobson has succeeded in transplanting a por- tion of the posterior tibial nerve taken from an amputated limb in the gap left in the median nerve on the removal of a tumour. In some cases, also, a piece of nerve has been taken from an animal for the same pur- pose. An attempt to restore the function of the nerve in this way may be made where the proximal and the distal ends of a divided nerve cannot be brought into apposition, as, for instance, after a portion of nerve has been destroyed in a compound fracture, or after a portion of nerve, damaged by the contraction of cicatricial tissue, by the formation of callus or by the growth of a tumour in its substance, has been removed. The conditions for success are:—Great care in dissecting out and handling the nerve, its immediate transference, the employment of a single suture at each end, the avoidance of all tension, strict asepsis, and immediate union of the wound of the soft parts. Subcutaneous rupture of a nerve is rare, but is occasionally met with as the result of a severe twist or wrench. I have seen it twice in the peroneal nerve where it winds round the head of the fibula. It is attended with severe pain at the time of injury, perhaps also referred to the periphery of the nerve, and the gradual formation of a bulbous swelling on the nerve immediately above the rupture. The same effects follow as in division of a nerve in an open wound. The treatment is also similar. In the evulsion of a limb the nerves may be torn away from their roots, as in the instance of a boy recently in St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital, whose leg was torn off above the knee, bringing with it the whole sciatic nerve as far as its origin from the spinal cord. Compression of a nerve occasions numbness and tingling, and, if severe and prolonged, partial or complete paralysis of the parts supplied by it, and the series of changes described in the last section. As examples may