TUMOURS. 77 of typical examples of the hyaline and fibrous varieties are seen in Fig. 10. Secondary changes.—Calcification, ossification, mucoid softening with formation of cysts, and ulceration. Usual seats.—(1) The bones, especially the phalanges of the fingers and sometimes of the toes, the lower end of the femur, and the head of the tibia and humerus, and (2) the parotid gland. Enchondromata may also occur in the subcutaneous tissue and the testicle. The signs and diagnosis will be given under Tumours of Bone and Parotid gland. Here only need it be said, that their chief characteristics are their extreme hardness, smooth or lobulated surface, and slow growth. They are usually single, except in the hands, where generally several fingers are a:ffected. At times they are of a softer consistency in places owing to mucoid softening, and at times of rapid growth, but in the latter case it is probable that they contain sarcomatous elements, xllthough they may occur at any age, they are most common in the young. Treatment.—They should be removed where,possible. OsTEOMATA OR OSSEOUS GROWTHS consist of true bone. They very rarely occur except in connection with bone or cartilage, and will again be referred to under diseases of bone. Those growing in connective tissue apart from bone are probably other tumours, or structures such as cysts, tendons, and muscles, that have undergone calcifi- cation or ossification. Myxomata or MUCOUS TUMOURS consist of tissue re- sembling that found in the umbilical cord and vitreous humour of the eye; but many of the growths that were formerly claimed as myxomata would appear to be fibro- mata, sarcomata or enchondromata undergoing mucoid softening. Pure myxomata are innocent tumours and do not return if completely removed, but they may attain a large size. Structure.—They consist of a soft gelatinous semi- translucent material, enclosed in a loose capsule of con- nective tissue, and intersected by bands of fibrous tissue. On section, they are of a pinkish or yellowish-grey colour, and of a soft gelatinous consistency, often almost diffiuent; whilst a tenacious and glairy fiuid containing large quantities of mucin oozes away from the cut sur- face. Under the microscope there are seen round and spindle cells and stellate cells with branching processes.