25 SOTPrBATlON AND ABSCESS, its normal state. The walls in consequence of the pres- sure of the surrounding tissues fall more or less into contact, and what remains of the cavity is gradually filled up by the growth of the granulation-tissue. The granu- lation-tissue is developed into fibrous tissue, which in its turn contracts, obliterating the blood-vessels, and is con- verted into dense cicatricial tissue. In the lower half of the diagram (fig. 3) are zones representing the various changes in the process of healing. Characters of pus,—Pus from an acute abscess in an otherwise healthy person is a thick, creamy, opaque, yellowish-white, slightly alkaline fluid, with a faintish smell, saltish taste, and a specific gravity of about 1030. If a drop is examined under the microscope it is found to consist of a fluid (the liquor puris) and corpuscles (pus- cells). The greater number of these corpuscles are globular, slightly granular, measure 2^ of an inch in diameter, and contain two or three nuclei which are made more evident on the addition of acetic acid to clear up the granular matter. Amongst them may be seen other corpuscles indistinguishable from leucocytes, and ex- hibiting when examined on a warm stage amoeboid movements. The latter are probably living leucocytes which have escaped into the abscess cavity, the former leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells which have under- gone death and degeneration. The liquor puris consists of water, albumen, and salts, of which chloride of sodium is the chief. It coagulates on boiling. Though probably derived in chief part from the exudation of the serum through the vessels, it differs from serum in that it does not coagulate spontaneously. In acute abscesses the pus contains granular material derived from the rapid degeneration of the tissues, and various species of micro- cocci. If allowed to stand or to decompose in an im- perfectly drained abscess cavity, it will be found moreover teeming with the bacteria of putrefaction. Varieties of pus,—Pus is variously spoken of as sanious when it contains blood, curdy when portions of coagulated fibrin are seen floating in it, ichorous when of a watery consistency, muco-pus when mixed with mucus, and in- fective when containing pathogenic micro-organisms. In some instances it has been observed to have a bluish- green colour (blue pus), due to the presence of the micrococcus cyaneus. The Cause of inflammation terminating in an acute