126 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. hours of the injury. 3. Secondary hcemorrhage is that which occurs any time after the first twenty-four hours, and is due to the failure of the process for the permanent closure of the vessel. The treatment in each case is different. (1.) Primary arterial hemorrhage. — The older Surgeons resorted to very barbarous methods of controlling haemorrhage, such as plunging stumps after amputation into boiling pitch, or operating with a red-hot knife, and it was not till Nature's method of arresting bleeding had been intimately studied, both in the human subject and by experiments on animals, that the local treatment of haemorrhage was placed upon a scientific basis. It may be best, therefore, first to consider Natures method of controlling haemorrhage before describing the surgical measures which have been founded upon it. When an artery of small or moderate size is completety divided, the cut end, in consequence of the injury stimulating the muscular fibres of the middle coat, contracts^ thus lessen- ing the size of the orifice, and, in the case of the small arteries, completely closing it. At the same time, the ciit end, owing to the normal elastic tension of the artery, retracts within its sheath, leaving the surface of the latter rough and uneven. The diminution in the size of the orifice retards the escape of blood. The slower current passing over the divided wall of the artery and the roughened internal surface of the sheath, in consequence of this multiplication of points of contact and exposure to the air, coagulates, gradually blocks up the orifice, and fills the sheath around and beyond the retracted end of the artery, forming what is called the external clot. The stream having been thus slowed or stopped, the blood in- side the vessel also coagulates, and the coagulation spread- ing from the clot that blocks up the orifice to the first collateral branch, forms what is called the internal clot (Fig. 26). When the haemorrhage has been severe, two other factors favour the formation of these clots, viz., (1), the enfeeblement of the heart's action induced by the tendency to syncope, and the consequent diminished force with which the blood is propelled from the divided vessel; and (2) the increased tendency of the blood to coagulate owing to an alteration in its composition caused by the absorption of watery fluid from the tissues to make up for the amount of blood lost by the haemorrhage. Thus the haemorrhage is arrested, and still presuming that the