456 INJURIES OF REGIONS. is driven into the upper, i.e., the narrower shaft between the broader tuberosities. Cause.—Generally direct vio- lence. Nature of the displacement.—The upper fragment is rotated outwards by the three muscles inserted into the greater tuberosity ; the lower fragment is drawn upwards by the deltoid and inwards by the three muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges (Fig. 141). Signs.—Vdjm, swelling, and impaired movement; marked shortening of the arm; proj ection of the rough end of the lower fragment, usually below the coracoid; and increased Fig. 141.—Extracapsular involvement of the circumflex fracture of the humerus. j^^^ve in the callus. Treatment.— poroplastic shield over the shoulder and outer side of the arm. Support the hand in a sling, but do not raise the elbow, in order that the weight of the arm may act as an extending force to overcome the upward displacement. C. Fracture through the greater tuberosity is the result of great violence, and is very rare. Nature of the displace- ment.—The humerus is drawn inwards beneath the cora- coid process by the muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges, and the greater tuberosity backwards by the three muscles inserted into it. Signs.—The shoulder is-greatly increased in breadth; a vertical gap may, perhaps, be made out between the tuberosity and the head of the bone ; and on approximating the fragments, crepitus can be felt. Treatment.—Endeavour to bring the fragments into con- mobility of the arm to the sur- geon. On rotating the arm, the head remains motionless in the glenoid cavity, whilst on exten- sion crepitus is felt. In the impacted form the signs are very obscure, and principally nega- tive. Thus, there may be de- formity, slight shortening, and impaired movement; but there is no crepitus, unless unjustifi- able force is used. Union is generally bony. There is often much impairment of movement, in consequence of inflammatory thickening, and sometimes para- lysis of the deltoid, from the (After Gray.) Similar to the intracapsular form. Place a pad in the axilla, and a