21 and for longer periods. Amongst the predisposing causes must be especially mentioned passive congestion, struma, rheumatism, gout and syphilis. Tlie exciting causes are often very slight, and may be altogether overlooked ; whilst secondary causes which may keep up the inidam- mation for an almost indetinite time frequently come into play. Thus in chronic joint-disease, though the cause may be but a trivial injury in a rheumatic subject, continual movement, and tension due to the distension of the synovial membrane, may keep up the inflammation for months or years. The presence of miliary tubercle is a frequent exciting cause. Symptoms.—These are also local and constitutional. Of the local signs the redness may be absent, or, if present, may be of a dusky hue ; whilst the part is often discoloured from pigmentation due to the disintegration of the coloured corpuscles. The pain is less severe than in the acute, often of a dull aching character, and increased on pressure, and sometimes worse at night. The part may be slightly hotter than natural, but at times no mcreased heat is apparent. The swelling is always a marked sign. Constitutional symptoms may be altogether absent; generally, however, the patient's health is feeble or below par, or he is strumous, or he has gouty, rheu- matic, or syphilitic symptoms. At times there may be some fever when an important organ is affected. Treatment.—The indications are :—to remove the cause and all secondary sources of irritation; to promote the absorption of the inflammatory products; and to re- establish the normal nutrition of the damaged tissues. For this purpose constitutional as well as local means should be employed. Thus :—we should endeavour to improve the general health by a careful dietary and the regulation of the secretions; whilst stimulants and tonics should be given where indicated. In the strumous, cod- liver oil, in the syphilitic, mercury or iodide of potassium, in the gouty, colchicum, and in the rheumatic, the salts of potash or guaiacum, are especially indicated; whilst residence at the seaside, or at some spa suitable to the diathesis, or a sea voyage should be enjoined. Locally, the means at our command, besides rest of the part, are : 1,^ counter-irritation by blisters, tincture of iodine, and stimulating liniments; 2, friction with mercurial oint- ment, the oleate of mercury or ointments of iodide of lead or cadmium, or by shampooing, massage, &c.; 3,