66 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. rule till the fourth or sixth week. In rare instances, however, infants are born with well-marked signs of syphilis; and at times the affection does not show itself till much later in life. But in the latter case the symp- toms are those of the tertiary stage, not those of the secondary stage delayed. The symptoms in a typical case usually set in with a chronic catarrh of the nasal mucous membrane, popularly known as the snuffles, fol- lowed by a rash on certain parts of the body, and mucous tubercles and superficial ulcerations about the mouth and anus. The catarrh may simulate merely a cold in the head, or be attended with a muco-purulent discharge, and cause obstruction to respiration and difficulty in sucking. The eruption, like that of the secondary stages of acquired syphilis, is symmetrical, and of the same peculiar coppery or raw-ham colour. It is most common about the nates and genitals, where it is usually erythe- matous in character, and on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, where it is commonly squamous. But it may be papular and at times bullous, or pustular. A well-marked mucous tubercle or condyloma about the anus is pathognomonic of the disease. These symptoms are frequently, though not invariably, accompanied by marasmus and wasting, the child looks shrivelled and old, the skin earthy and dry, whilst the hair may fall off, and the nails, iris, periosteum, and bones may be affected as in the acquired form. At this period death is far from uncommon. Usually, however, and especially under a mercurial course, the symptoms gradually subside, and by the end of the first year disappear altogether and no further manifestation of the disease may occur through- out life. But frequently after several years of immunity certain tertiary affections show themselves, the chief of these being interstitial keratitis, periostitis, and osteitis, followed by necrosis, disease of the ear often ending in total deafness, ulceration about the palate, chronic syno- vitis of one or more of the joints, and the formation of gummata in the viscera, testicle, &c. Along with these, certain important diagnostic symptoms, the result of the former secondary lesions, may be present, viz., 1, a de- pressed and widened condition of the bridge of the nose, due to the influence of the nasal catarrh upon the de- velopment of the nasal bones and septum; 2, radiating scars about the angle of the mouth, the result of the cicatrization of the former ulcers [Hutchinson''s lines); 3,