FRACTimE OF THE VAULT OF THE SKULL. 359 splintering of the bone, or a fragment may be completely detached or driven into the dnra mater or brain. Any of these fractures may be complicated by laceration or other injury of the brain or its membranes, or by rupture of the middle meningeal artery or of one of the venous sinuses. In all fractures involving both tables, except in the simple fissure, there is usually greater splintering of the internal than of the external table. In fractures, however, pro- duced from within the cranium, as by a bullet passing through the skull, the external table at the aperture of exit is more splintered than the internal. The reason for the greater splintering of the internal table (or the external table when fractured from within) is, that the force is broken in perforating the external table, and becomes more distributed over the internal. It was formerly said to be due to the internal table being more brittle than the external. Signs.—Whatever the form of fracture, it may be ac- companied by signs of concussion, compression, or other injury of the brain. Here only are given the principal local signs of the various forms of fracture of the vault. In a simple fissured fracture there is no sign, but in the compound variety the fissure may be detected by the finger in the wound. A sharp edge of the torn pericranium, a suture, or a natural inequality may, however, if care is not exercised, be mistaken for such a fissure. In the depressed fracture the depression in the bone in the simple variety may be obscured by extravasated blood either in the scalp or under the pericranium, but in the compound variety it can be felt by the finger and, if the wound is large,"£seen. In both varieties, when the bone is much depressed, signs of local compression of the brain may be present. In the 'punctured fracture the sharp fragments may be detected, with the finger or with a probe, pro- jecting into the interior of the cranium, and signs of local compression may or may not be present; later, symptoms of inflammation of the brain, if the fragments are not removed, will almost certainly supervene. In both the compound depressed and punctured fracture there may be comminution or loss of bone, and portions of lace- rated brain substance may at times exude through the fracture. Fracture of the inner table is very difficult to diagnose, but later it may be indicated by an increase of local temperature, signs of local compression, and localized pain from irritation of the dura mater. It is said that