DISEASES OF TElS'DOlSrS. 281 anterior annular ligament of tlie wrist, and is then spoken of as the palmar bursal ganglion. The walls frequently become thickened and villous-like on their internal surface, whilst melon-seed-like bodies are frequently found free in the interior of the ganglion or attached by slender peduncles to its walls. The fluid contained in the cyst may be clear and serous, or thick and gelatinous, and of a dark chocolate colour. These ganglia have lately been described as arising from a tuberculous degeneration^ of the sheaths of the tendons, similar to pulpy degeneration of a joint, and the tubercle bacillus has been found in them. Signs.—A palmar bursal ganglion forms a tense elastic swelling, constricted at its centre by the anterior annular ligament. The swelling projects both in the wrist and in the palm, and occasionally extends along the flexor tendons of the thumb and little finger. Fluctuation may be ob- tained by pressing alternately above and below the annular ligament. Operative treatment is always attended with some risk—such as stiff wrist or fingers from the glue- ing together of the tendons, suppuration extending up the planes of the flexor muscles into the forearm, acute cellulitis, erysipelas, saprsemia and pyaemia. An opera- tion, therefore, should only be undertaken when necessi- tated by loss of power in the wrist or fingers, and even then not until an attempt has been made to cure the ganglion by pressure, strapping, and counter-irritation. Should an operation become requisite, it is best, in my opinion, to make an antiseptic incision above and below the annular liganfient, squeeze out the melon-seed bodies and insert a drain-tube. If this is done before suppuration has taken place recovery with complete movement may generally be obtained. The forearm and hand should be confined on a splint. Paronychia tendinosa, a variety of whitlow, is an acute infective inflammation of the sheath of a tendon, generally of a finger, more rarely of a toe. It is usually the result of inoculation with a septic or infective poison in a person who is out of health. It may begin in the sheath of the tendon, or in the tissues superficial to the sheath, or in the periosteum of the phalanx. If neglected, very serious consequences may ensue; thus—1, the tendon may die from its blood-supply being cut off by the inflam- matory effusion ; 2, the suppuration may extend into the palm, and under the annular ligament into the forearm ; 3, the inter-phalangeal, carpal, or wrist joint may