DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 471 the former variety; but with the limb flexed it is much greater. This is shown in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 150), and depends upon the fact that in the dis- location on to the dorsum ilii the head of the bone in ex- tension lies above the acetabulum, and when flexed at a right angle to the body on the same level as the acetabulum; whereas in the sciatic dislocation the head of the bone in extension is almost on the same level as the acetabulum, but when flexed at a right angle to the body lies considerably behind the acetabulum. 3. Dislocation into the obturator foramen {the thyroid and downwards of Bigeloiv),—The head is displaced down- wards on to the obturator externus, where it lies suspended by the Y ligament, and may remain either just below the acetabulum, or be carried slightly inwards towards the perineum or outwards towards the tuberosity of the ischium. The head of the bone generally looks slightly inwards, and the trochanter outwards. The capsule and round ligament are ruptured, the former at its lower and inner part. The glutei, pyriformis, psoas and iliacus, obturator externus, pectineus, and the adductor brevis are stretched or sometimes torn. Signs (Fig. 151).—In the more common form, viz., that in which the head is displaced downwards and a little inwards, the limb is apparently lengthened, due to the lowering of the pelvis on fharside, but is really shortened about half an inch or so. It is also abducted and slightly .flexed, whilst the body there is^iisually some external rotation, the toes point slightly outwards. The nearer the head of the bone approaches the perineum the more plainly can it be felt, and the more eversion and abduction will there be ; con- versely, the nearer it approaches the tuberosity of the ischium the greater its inversion and adduction; whilst when it is displaced directly downwards there will be neither eversion nor inversion, adduction nor abduction, but marked flexion. 4. Dislocation on to the puhes {the puhic and subspinous of Bigelow).—The head of the bone is thrown forwards and rests below Poupart's ligament, either upon the ramus of the j)ubes {pubic) or upon the pectineal eminence ]ust in front of the anterior inferior spine {subspinous). The head looks forwards and the trochanter backwards. The capsule is generally torn below, and the round liga- ment ruptured. The Y ligament is entire, and produces psoas and iliacus, and as