210 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. blood escapes directly into the tissues. Tlie course, ter- mination, and signs of a circumscribed traumatic aneu- rysm are similar to those of a spontaneous aneurysm. The treatment, however, inasmuch as the artery in the neigh- bourhood of the sac will probably be healthy, differs from the treatment of a spontaneous aneurysm, in that the artery may be tied immediately above the sac, or the sac may be laid open and the vessel tied above and below. Thus, if the injured artery is small, it may be tied above and below; if large, immediately above, unless the aneu- rysm threatens to burst, under which circumstances the aneurysm should be laid open and the artery tied where it enters and leaves the sac. Arterio-VENOUS ANEURYSM is a pulsating tumour de- pending upon an abnormal communication of an artery with a vein. There are two kinds: in one the communi • cation between the artery and vein is direct (Fig. 46a.), and the arterial blood is forced into the vein at each beat of the heart, causing its walls to be dilated into a fusiform or sac-like swelling (aneurysmal varix); in the other (Fig. 46b), the blood first passes into a small aneurysm formed by condensation of the tissues between the artery and vein and thence into the vein, the dilatation of the vein being consequently less than in the preceding variety (varicose aneurysm). Both forms may occur spontaneously, but are usually the result of some injury, as a stab, wounding the walls of both vessels. The lesion was of common occurrence at the bend of the elbow when venesection was in vogue, the lancet passing through the median basilic vein and bicipital fascia into the subjacent brachial artery. Signs.—An aneurysmal varix gives rise to a pul- sating tumour in which a peculiar bruit, compared to the buzzing of a fly in a paper box, is heard. The artery is dilated and thinned above owing to the impediment to the circulation, and is smaller below; whilst the vein is dilated, especially above, and pulsates. In varicose aneurysm, in addition to the above signs, which are com- mon to both forms, an ordinary aneurysmal bruit can be heard. Treatment,—In aneurysmal varix some form of elastic support should be applied, or if the swelling is increasing the artery tied above and below its point of communication with the vein. In varicose aneurysm pressure may first be applied to the artery above the sac, combined with direct pressure on the sac. If this fails the artery must be tied above and below the sac, since