DISEASES 01^ HEGIOKS. 512 a weak solution of carbolic or boracic acid. Of course, if it suppurates, it must be opened freely. II. Diseases of the meatus :—Diffuse inflamma- tion is caused by injury, irritants (such as scratching the meatus with a pin),or sea-bathing. There is redness and swelling of the skin lining the meatus, a sense of fulness, and throbbing and occasional tinnitus, followed by serous or semipurulent secretion. After a time the epithelial lining becomes whitish and sodden, and, on syringing, comes away in flakes, or even as a cast of the meatus, leaving the surface beneath red, and frequently oblite- rating the demarcation between the meatus and tym- panic membrane. Earely the tympanic membrane may be perforated. There is pain, increased by movements of the jaw or pressure on the auricle, and sometimes fever. Treatment,—In the early stages cold compresses, and a leech or two to the tragus; and antiphlogistics. As soon as secretion is established, instil a warm solution of boracic acid, and later equal parts of alcohol and water, or blow in powdered boracic acid. If the discharge prove obstinate, the surface may be painted with a solution of nitrate of silver (5SS. ad f §j.), or liquor plumbi subacetatis. Furuncles. Small boils frequently occur in the meatus in gouty, anaemic, and diabetic patients; also in those whose nervous system has been greatly taxed. The attack begins with pain, often of the greatest intensity, radiating over the side of the head and in- creased by movements of the jaw, or the slightest pressure on the auricle. There may be deafness as the result of closure of the meatus, not otherwise. Ex- amination shows little or no redness, but one or more swellings, often closing the meatus. These are exquisitely tender when touched. As soon as the abscess bursts the pain subsides, but very often one abscess after another forms, till the patient's life becomes a burden to him through pain and sleeplessness. Treatment.—Apply hot fomentations, a leech or two to the tragus, and instil a concentrated solution of boracic acid in alcohol. Often a plug of cotton-wool soaked in glycerine and laudanum, and gently inserted into the meatus by the aural forceps shown at Fig. 184, or Gruber's medicated gelatine bougies, give relief. When the abscess is fully formed incise it, but not before, as early incision is ex- cessively painful and gives but temporary relief. The