DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 350 promoting healing. I have tried this method and can speak well of it. The haemorrhage attending the scraping is much less than might be imagined. Healing rapidly ensues. When the sloughs have separated or have been removed, the wound should be treated as a granulating ulcer, but as it is often slow in healing it may require stimulation with resin ointment, Peruvian balsam, &c. Lupus yulgaris is a disease of childhood, and seldom begins after the age of puberty. It is characterized by the formation of yellowish-red nodules in the skin or mucous membrane, and subsequently by scarring and often great destruction of the affected tissues and much deformity. The cause is unknown, but it is believed by many to be of the nature of a local tuberculosis depending on the presence of the tubercle bacillus. Pathology.—The deeper layers of the corium become infiltrated with small round cells, amongst which new capillaries are formed. In this granulation-like tissue are found non-vascular areas resembling in structure miliary tubercles, and in them the tubercle bacillus has at times been discovered. The small-celled infiltration extends along the vessels, sweat-glands, sebaceous glands and hair-follicles, and may finally involve the whole of the corium. The granu- lation-like tissue may then either undergo atrophy and be partially absorbed without ulceration, though leaving, nevertheless, a permanent scar; or it may undergo caseation, and the cuticle giving way, break down into an ulcer. Signs.—The disease begins as reddish or amber-coloured, semi-transparent, jelly-like nodules, the colour of which does not completely disappear on pressure. The nodules later become slightly elevated, and several coalesce, forming larger nodules or tubercles, over which the cuticle forms slight scales. The centre of the patch may now undergo atrophy and partial absorption, leaving a slightly- depressed whitish cicatrix. In this way the disease may become cured; or while cicatrization is taking place in the centre the disease may continue to spread at the margins. Or the lupous patch may break down and ulcerate, the surrounding skin often becoming inflamed. The edges of the ulcer are raised, whilst its base is smooth, red, and spongy-looking. The ulceration may proceed gradually or rapidly, and extend through the skin or mucous membrane to the underlying structures, destroy- ing, as when the nose is attacked, skin, mucous mem-