WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 415 undertaken, will certainly prove fatal in a few days. Treatment.—1. If the wound in the parietes is extensive, the injured viscus, if the stomach or intestine^ should be drawn gently through the aperture and the wound of its coats united by Lembert's sutures. Should the intestine be torn completely across, its continuity should be restored by circular enterorrhaphy or by Senn's method of anastomosis by bone-plates. If its coats are much lacerated, the lacerated portions should be first excised. These methods have so reduced the time required for restoring the continuity of divided intestine that only in exceptional cases should the patient's general condition render it necessary to draw the injured gut into the wound, stitch it to the parietes, and make an artificial anus. In gunshot wounds of the intestines Senn's infla- tion method is useful in determining if there be one or more wounds. The rectum is first inflated and the lowest wound detected by the escape of the gas. This wound is then sutured, the inflation repeated, and the gas extends up to the next wound. If the liver is wounded an attempt may be made to unite the peritoneal surface by sutures, or if the wound is deep it may be plugged with iodoform-gauze and the wound in the parietes be left open above for the purposes of drainage and the subsequent removal of the plugs. If the gall- Uadder is penetrated the wound should be sewn up, or the edges of the wound if lacerated stitched to the abdominal parietes, or the gall-bladder removed. If the spleen is injured extirpation of the organ appears to be the best method of arresting the otherwise fatal haemor- rhage. After the wounded viscera have been treated in one or other of the ways described above, the peritoneal cavity should be thoroughly cleansed from all blood and other extravasation by irrigation with warm water or boric acid solution (2 per cent.), and the wound in the parietes closed as after a simple penetrating wound. 2. If the wound in the parietes is small, the safer course is prob- ably to enlarge the wound, and treat the wounded viscus as described above. The general treatment consists in the administration of opium; abstinence from all nutriment taken by the mouth for the first two or three days, and subsequent feeding with small quantities of iced milk^ and nutrient enemata. Absolute rest is imperative. Should peritonitis supervene, it must be treated as described under that head.