166 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. Symptoms of rabies.—The earliest symptoms are rest- lessness, dulness, and a tendency to shun the light. The dog often roves far and wide, and has a morbid appetite for pieces of stick, hay, stones, &c. In the next stage he may rush wildly about, biting other dogs, inanimate objects, or men, frequently those to whom he has been previously attached. The appetite is lost; there is desire to drink, and the muzzle is put into the water, but none is taken. Pinally he becomes paralysed, the lower jaw begins to drop, the bark changes to a characteristic hoarse howl from pharyngeal paralysis ; next the limbs fail, and finally the muscles of respiration. Sometimes, however, advancing paralysis is the only symptom, the power of barking being then lost. This form of the disease is called dumb rabies. Post-mortem signs of rabies.—The stomach contains hay, sticks, stones, &c., and its mucous membrane is con- gested and scattered over with small haemorrhages. The trachea is congested and may also be dotted over with small haemorrhages. The nervous system, especially the cord and medulla, show signs of acute myelitis. This begins with an exudation of leucocytes into the sheaths of dilated vessels; next haemorrhage, and finally soften- ing. If a portion of the medulla or cord is required for inoculating purposes, a piece should be placed at once in a 20 p.c. solution of glycerine and kept there for three or four days to kill septic micro-organisms ; an emulsion is then made and a drop or two injected under the dura mater of a rabbit, which will die in from eighteen to twenty-one days, showing first excitement, and then paralysis of the hinder limbs. Pathology of hydrophobia,—The principal post-mortem changes have been found in the medulla, especially about the region of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and hypo-glossal nuclei, and in the cerebral cortex. They consist in the infiltration of the perivascular sheaths with leucocytes, thrombosis of the medium-sized vessels, small haemorrhages, and degeneration of the nerve cells; in short, as in animals, of an acute myelitis. The theory now generally held with regard to the pathology of the disease is that the poison, after remaining for a variable time dormant in the wound, multiplies or matures; and then that either it or its products slowly enter the blood and set up a specific inflammation in the medulla and oerebral cortex, whereby their power of resistance to