798 DISEASES OF BEGIONS. let the glans slip back, close the forceps, and shave o& all the prepuce in front of them with a clean sweep of the knife. Eemove the forceps, slit up the mucous lining of the prepuce in the middle line quite back to the corona, break down any adhesion between the prepuce and glans, wash away the secretion, twist or tie any spurting vessels, and stitch the flaps of mucous membrane to the skin with interrupted horse-hair sutures. Dress with boracic lint or iodoform. 2. Slitting the jprepuce may be done with scissors, or with a curved bistoury guided by a director, introduced between the glans and prepuce. In either case the mucous mem- brane should be united to the skin-flaps with fine sutures after twisting or tying any bleeding vessels. Care should be taken not to pass the director into the meatus, and to ensure that the mucous membrane is slit quite back to the corona. 3. Dilatation of the prepuce may be accomplished in slight cases by a daily endeavour to draw back the con- tracted prepuce over the glans. It may also be done by the preputial dilator, or by forcible separation of the blades of the dressing forceps, though such means are not often successful. Peimary yenereal SORES OR CHANCRES.—Two chief varieties of venereal sore or chancre occur, the syphilitic or infecting, and the local contagious or non-infecting. Either of these may be accompanied by sloughing or phagedsena, and are then spoken of as sloughing or phagedeenic sores or chancres. 1. The primary syphilitic chancre has already been described in the section on syphilis (p. 58). 2. The local contagious or non-infecting sore, the soft chancre or chancroid as it is sometimes called to dis- tinguish it from the hard or syphilitic chancre, is a specific form of ulceration probably depending upon a distinct variety of micro-organism.. Though the ulcer, like the syphilitic, may occur on any part of the body that is inoculated with the specific virus, it is so much more frequently met with on the genitals that it is described with diseases of these organs. It is not followed by constitutional symptoms. Signs.—Non-infecting or soft chancres are most frequent at the juuQtion of the glans and prepuce, where they often take the form of a ring of small ulcers around the corona glandis. More rarely they are met with on the muco-