694 4. Obstructed or incaeceeated hernia. — These terms are generally applied synonymously to an irreducible hernia in which the protruded intestine has become ob- structed by a collection of undigested food, foreign bodies, as cherry-stones, &c. The hernia is most frequently met with in old people, and if neglected, is apt to become strangulated or inflamed. Symptoms—A^ in strangula- tion, there may be constipation, colicky pains, nausea, and perhaps vomiting; but the local signs of strangulation are less marked. Thus, there may be little or no local pain and no tension in the sac, though, at times, it may become distended and larger than before the incarceration occurred. The impulse on cough may still be present, and hard faecal masses may, perhaps, be felt. The symptoms, how- ever, may gradually merge into those of strangulation, and it is often diflicult to distinguish mere obstruction from strangulation, especially when the former is asso- ciated with some inflammation of the sac. When in doubt the case should be treated like one of strangulated hernia. Treatment.—A purgative enema, rest in the recum- bent position, warmth or ice to the part, and restriction of diet should be prescribed. When there is no vomiting, a brisk purge is often successful, but before giving such the Surgeon should thoroughly assure himself that strangula- tion does not exist. The application of the taxis is advised by some, and doubtless, in some instances, the intestine may be emptied of its contents by this means. It should be remembered, however, that its use is not unattended with risk. 5. Inelamed hernia.—In this condition the sac and to some extent its contents are inflamed. Inflammation is most common in small irreducible epiploceles, and is generally the result of injury, the pressure of a badly- fitting truss, or of violent exercise. If neglected the hernia is apt to pass into a condition of strangulation. The local symptoms resemble those of a strangulated hernia, but the impulse on cough is not absent, though it may be less marked than in a hernia in its ordinary state, and there is not so much tension in the sac as when stran- gulation exists. The parts are hot, tender, and oedema- tous, and there may be feverish symptoms, vomiting, and constipation. The vomit consists, however, only of the contents of the stomach and is not faecal, the constipation is seldom complete, and flatus will usually pass. Treatment, — An icebag should be applied over the