TREATMENT OE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 661 it is situated in tlie descending or transverse colon, so as to necessitate tlie opening of the ascending colon. To begin ■with, it should be remembered that stricture is most com- mon in the sigmoid flexure and rectum, next in the colon, then in the caecum, and is very rare in the small intestine; indeed, it is so rare in the two latter situations, that when its exact position is not known, it is generally safe to assume that right colotomy will sufiice. Again, if the stricture is in the rectum or sigmoid flexure, the disten- sion will be equal on the two sides; when in the de- scending or transverse colon, greater on the right than on the left side. The amount of distension on the two sides may be more accurately estimated by the cyrtometer than by mere inspection and palpation. If a clyster-pipe will pass for some distance, say a foot or so, and a large quantity of fluid can be injected, the stricture is probably high up; but too much importance must not be attached to this sign, as the clyster-pipe may have bent upon itself and the rectum and sigmoid flexure are often very capacious. Further, something may at times be learnt by ausculting the colon whilst the injection is being given, and*by passing the whole hand into the rectum. 6. In contractions there is pain of a paroxysmal nature of short duration and of frequent occurrence ; peristalsis may not be visible on account of the matting together of the intestines, but gurglings may be heard. There is no vomiting or distension except during the attacks of pain. Constipation is not complete ; def secation is painless ; the motions are not compressed or pipe-like as in stricture ; and there is no distension in the flanks. The symptoms may at any time suddenly become acute. 7. In acute peritonitis the abdomen is distended from , the first, hard, and board-like; peristalsis is not visible ; the pain is great and increased on the least pressure; the pulse is small and wiry; the temperature may or may not be raised. (See Peritonitis^ p. 422). There will pro- bably be a history of previous attacks of typhlitis or peri- typhlitis. For the signs of enteritis, typhlitis, and peri-typhlitis, - see a work on Medicine, t Treatment.—Supposing any of the above conditions to have been diagnosed with tolerable certainty (see above), the indications for treatment will be clear. Where no diagnosis, however, can be made, the treatment may at first be expectant, but no long delay is admissible if