TTLCERATIOK OF PATTCES, PALATE, AKD TONSILS. 581 cTiildren, or where the tonsils are much enlarged, they should be excised, either with the knife, or better, with the guillotine, and this should be done before the yoice has become seriously affected or other mischief has ensued. The haemorrhage attending the operation, though usually slight, has at times been alarming. Gargling with cold water will generally stop it; but if this fails, ice, or astringents, as tannic acid, or pressure with a pencil guarded with lint, will nearly always succeed. Should a bleeding vessel be seen, it should be tied or twisted. In exceptional cases, the common carotid has had to be tied. Ulceration of the fauces, palate, and tonsils may be simple, gangrenous, syphilitic, strumous, and malignant. Simple ulceration, the so-called ulcerated sore throat, is generally the result of debility, induced by over-work Fia 213.—Tonsil guillotine. in a close atmosphere, and hence is frequent in workers in hospital wards, where it is known as hospital sore- throat. Change of air, a nourishing diet, quinine and port wine, with a gargle of chlorate of potash, will usually relieve it. If neglected it may assume a gangrenous form and extensive sloughing may then ensue, with constitu- tional symptoms of blood-poisoning, which often proves rapidly fatal. Stimulants and fluid nourishment should be frequently administered, and quinine, perchloride of iron, or ammonia and bark, given internally. Tracheo- tomy, if the larynx becomes involved, may be necessary. Syphilitic ulceration may be superficial or deep. The superficial ulcers are common in the early stages of syphilis, and may be accompanied by mucous tubercles. Deep ulcers, due to the breaking down of gummata, occur in the later stages as irregular* excavations with sharply- cut edges and a sloughy base, but are unattended with induration. On healing they are often productive of much contraction (see Pharyngeal Stenosis). The so-called strumous ulceration occurring in strumous children bears a general resemblance to the syphilitic, and is believed by some to be really the result of con-