550 DISEASES OF REGIONS. the secondary tumours may be mentioned arterio-yenous communication in tlie cavernous sinus giving rise to a pulsating tumour, and distension of the frontal sinus by retained mucus {frontal mucocele). The treatment is chiefly the same as in other parts. Malignant tumours should be freely removed with if necessary the eyeball and the contents of the orbit, and chloride of zinc paste in some cases applied for a few days afterwards. Enucleation oe the eye.—Patient lying down and as a rule under general anaesthesia; operator standing behind the head; spring speculum in lids. Divide conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue all round the cornea with scissors; raise each rectus tendon in succession on a squint hook (Fig. 196) and divide each one close to the globe; now separate the limbs of the speculum and the eyeball will project forwards; pass a pair of stout curved scissors, closed, behind the globe from the outer side, and feel for the optic nerve; then pull back the scissors slightly, open them, and divide the nerve. The globe, now pushed for- wards by the scissors, is taken between the fingers and thumb, and the other attachments are divided by the scissors. After the operation firm pressure is applied by a bandage. There is but rarely any trouble from, haemor- rhage. An artificial eye may be given about three months after operation, if the socket is healthy. IX. Errors of refraction and accommodation. The light percipient portion of the eye exists at the external layer of the retina {rods and cones), and it is necessary for perfect vision that images of external objects should be accurately focussed on this layer. Eays of light passing into the eye are refracted at the anterior surfaces of the cornea, lens and vitreous, and brought to a focus at a point varying with the refraction. The human eye for the sake of simplicity may be represented by a convex lens of 23 mm. focus; and the following laws regulating the passage of light through a convex lens will then be ap- plicable to it. Eays of light passing through a convex lens (Fig. 195, L) parallel (P) to the principal axis (X X), and therefore coming from infinity, are brought to a focus at a point Em. {principal focus) varying inversely in distance to the convexity of the lens; rays coming from a point (D) closer than infinity {divergent rays) are refracted