856 DISEASES OP EEGIONS. wliicli is poured out between tlie divided ends of the tendon. Hence the importance of subcutaneous division, that is, of making a mere puncture in the skin and pre- venting the entrance of air lest suppuration ensue and the tendon become adherent to its sheath and fail to unite. The tendon having been made tense by an assis- tant, pass the tenotome beneath it with the blade on the flat; then whilst the tendon is slightly relaxed, turn the edge of the tenotome towards the tendon and cut towards the skin, the assistant again making it tense to facilitate the division, but relaxing the moment it is felt to give way lest the skin be severed and the puncture be converted into an open wound. The puncture should be covered with a dossil of antiseptic gauze, and the foot secured to a splint or in a plaster-of-Paris bandage. It was formerly the custom to place the foot in a splint in the deformed, or in only a slightly improved position for a few days until the puncture had healed and the tendon had united before beginning mechanical extension to stretch the new material between the divided ends. It was thought that if the foot was at once rectified and the ends of the divided tendon consequently much separated, there was grave risk of the tendon not uniting, or of the uniting material remaining weak. I have not, however, found this to be the case, and I now invariably place the foot immediately after tenotomy in the best position possible, often leaving a gap of a quarter of an inch to half an inch, or even more, between the ends of the divided tendon. By at once rectifying the position of the foot, after dividing any contracted ligaments that may still hold the bones in their deformed position, much time is saved and the necessity of expensive extension-apparatus is avoided. In dividing the posterior tibial tendon, after a puncture has been made with a sharp-pointed tenotome, a blunt-pointed tenotome should be substituted for it lest the posterior tibial artery be pricked. Should this vessel be wounded, all that is necessary is to apply firm pressure to the foot and ankle by a pad and bandage. On no account should an attempt be made to tie it, as this would convert the subcutaneous into an open wound. Even where the anterior as well as the posterior tibial artery has been wounded in tenotomy, bleeding has been readily arrested by pressure, and no harm has ensued. In the fat ankle of an infant the posterior border of the tibia, the guide to the tendon of the tibialis posticus, cannot