aENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJUEIES. 164 of reproducing the disease in the horse. The disease may run an acute or chronic course. It is nearly always acute in man and chronic in the horse. The acute form is characterised: (1) by a thin serous discharge, rapidly becoming foul, purulent, and sanious, from the nasal mucous membrane, with enlargement of the submaxillary glands; (2) by a pustular eruption, resembling that of small-j)ox, on the skin and mucous membrane of the respiratory and digestiye tract; and (3) by the formation of circumscribed nodules in the lymphatics of the subcutaneous and muscular tissue, which usually soon break down into abscesses and foul ulcers. These signs are ushered in and accompanied by fever, which rapidly assumes a typhoid type, and is sometimes preceded by a rigor. Symptoms of pneumonia or pleurisy, or vomiting and diarrhoea ensue, according as the respiratory or ali- mentary tract is chiefly affected, and death usually takes place within a week from saprsemia, sej)tic8emia, or pyaemia. In the chronic form the constitutional symptoms are less severe, and the patient may linger for months, or even recover. In the horse the disease is spoken of by veterinary surgeons as "/arc?/" when the lymphatic vessels and glands are principally affected, the swellings opposite the valves in the lymphatics forming the so-called farcy- huds ; " and as glanders, when the disease falls chiejfly upon the nasal mucous membrane. In man the two processes generally occur together as above described. Treatment.—Beyond supporting the patient's strength with concentrated fluid nourishment, opening abscesses as they occur, dressing the ulcers antiseptically, and syringing out the nasal chambers with antiseptic lotions, little or nothing can be done, as no treatment appears to have been hitherto of any avail. Hydrophobia is a specific infective disease, always propagated by inoculation, and probably due to a spe- cific micro-organism. It has received its name from the prominent symptoms which the pharyngeal spasms 2)ro- duce. It is called rabies in dogs because no fear of water is shown, and because in them there may be great ex- citement. The disease is generally received by man from the dog, occasionally from the cat, and more rarely from the wolf or fox, and by these animals it may be given to horses, deer, &c. The inoculation is generally through a bite by which the saliva containing the virus reaches