TREATMEOT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 691 If it is found that the stricture is not sufficiently divided to allow the intestine to slip back on being manipulated with the fingers, a second notch should be made. But if the intestine does not then return easily the stricture should be divided again, as no force must be used. "Where the intestine is gangrenous, some Surgeons who hold that it is better to leave the gangrenous intestine in the sac merely notch the stricture, disturbing as little as possible the adhesions that have formed between the intestine and the neck of the sac, as it is upon these cutting off, as they do, the general peritoneal cavity from the gangrenous gut that the patient's safety depends. The division here is not practised for the purpose of relieving the strangula- tion, as the bowel is already dead; but for the purpose of allowing the contents of the bowel above the gangrenous part to escape externally. This treatment, however, is far from successful; hence many now advise the laying open of the peritoneum and suture of the intestine as described at p. 689. Treatmeiit of the sac-—The next question that arises is what should be done with the sac ? My own practice has been, unless otherwise contraindicated, to dissect up the sac, apply a stout catgut ligature to its neck, and cut the body of the sac away. In inguinal hernia the ring may then be brought together with sutures, and the wound closed. In femoral hernia the parts are so rigid that they cannot well be brought together. In umbilical hernia the sac with the redundant integuments may be removed, and the wound united with the peritoneal surfaces in contact by deep and superficial sutures. Many, however, prefer simply to leave the sac in situ, merely uniting the wound, and applying a pad. The sac should not be ligatured and cut oft:—1. When the patient is weak or collapsed, and it is desirable to complete the operation with as little delay as possible. 2. When the sac is acutely inflamed. 3. When the intestine is in that doubtful condition that it has only been placed just within the ring. 4. When the abdomen contains much serous fluid, or peritonitis is present. After-treatment.—The wound should be dressed anti- septically, and a spica bandage firmly applied. Half a grain of morphia may then be injected subcutaneously, or a full dose of opium given by the mouth, and the patient subsequently kept under the influence of the drug, in order to place the intestine at rest till it has had time Y Y 2