271 ANKYLOSIS OR STIFF JOINT. when all bleeding has been stopped, opening the joint. The body if loose will generally slip through the opening; if attached, its pedicle must be ligatured and divided. The operation should be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions, and the patient prepared by a week's rest in bed in the case of the knee with his joint on a splint. The splint should be continued after the operation, or the joint placed in a plaster-of-Paris bandage till the wound has healed and all fear of inflam- mation has passed. The indirect method consists in incising the capsule subcutaneously with a tenotomy knife, forcing the loose body through the incision into the connective tissue around the joint, and then either allowing it to remain there permanently, or removing it after the hole in the capsule has healed. The operation is difficult to perform, and since the introduction of anti- septics possesses no advantage over the direct method. Ankylosis or stiff joint may be divided into the fibrous and the tony. A spurious form of ankylosis, due to the contraction of the surrounding muscles or of cicatrices after burns, may also occur, but is generally associated with some amount of fibrous ankylosis. Fibrous ankylosis, also called ligamentous, or by some authors, false, in contradistinction to the bony which they then term true, is the union more or less complete of the articular surfaces of the joint by fibrous tissue. Thus, it may consist of—1, a mere thickening of the capsule; 2, a thickening and shortening of the ligaments; 3, the formation of fibrous bands within the joint; 4, the partial removal of the cartilages and the union of the bones by fibrous tissue; and 5, the above conditions variously combined. It may be the result of joint- disease, or of keeping an inflamed joint in too long a state of rest. Sometimes it may terminate in bony ankylosis. Bony ankylosis is the firm union of the articular ends of the joint by bone. It is often a further stage of the fibrous variety. The articular surfaces may be united evenly and uniformly, or by irregular bridges of bone, or partly by bone and partly by fibrous tissue. The union may occur with the articular surfaces in contact in either the extended or the flexed position, or at an angle between the two (Fig. 76); or it may occur with the articular surfaces dislocated from each other. The way in which it is produced has already been described under Arthritis: all that need be repeated here is, that in