DISEASES or REGIOJCS. 710 then cautiously opened by an incision made in the same direction as the wound. Should it not be thus discovered, the dissection must be carried on cautiously in an upward and backward direction for an inch to an inch and a half, of course keeping to the middle line and well towards the sacrum lest the peritoneum be wounded. If the bowel is detected it should be opened; no attempt, however, should be made to bring it down, but a bougie passed daily to prevent the wound re-contracting. If not found in this way the colon may be opened in the left loin {lumbar colotomy) or in the left groin {inguinal colotomy). Opinions differ as to which of these operations is prefer- able. There are advantages and disadvantages attending each which cannot be here discussed. On the whole the operation in the groin in my opinion is the best. Mayo Eobson, however, has recently proposed to continue the dissection in the perineum, open the peritoneum, seek the end of the gut, pull it down, and fix it to the skin. Pruritus ani, or itching about the anus, though often dependent upon constipation, ascarides, pediculi, eczema marginatum, condylomata, piles, or other diseases of the rectum, sometimes occurs without any very evident cause, and has then been attributed to disordered digestion and gouty habit. Symptoms.—The itching is often intolerable and is usually worse soon after the patient gets warm in bed. There may be some slight cracks, a little eczema from the scratching, or a moist and reddened condition of the skin, but occasionally there is nothing to be seen. Treatment.—The cause if possible should be removed. Where none is very evident the general health must be attended to, the parts kept scrupulously clean, and an ointment or lotion of perchloride of mercury, boracic acid, nitrate of silver, cocaine, &c., applied. I have found lactate of lead, made by pouring lead lotion into milk, to have a very beneficial effect. Fissure of the rectum is a small painful crack or ulcer usually situated just within the anus, and seldom involving more than the skin or mucous membrane. Causes.—Almost always constipation; sometimes neglect of local cleanliness, or other source of irritation. The passage of an unusually hard motion is often the im- mediate exciting cause. When the ulcer is once thoroughly established, healing is prevented by the action of the sphincter and the irritation of its surface during the passage of a motion. Symptoms.—The chief of these is