ACUTE TONSILLITIS. 579 introduction of the raspatory forwards or backwards as the case may require. Haemorrhage, though often sharp, is seldom severe, and may generally be stopped by pressure or syringing with ice-cold water, the head being turned over to one side to let the blood escape, or if it becomes serious by plugging the posterior palatine canal with a small peg of wood. After-treatment,—The patient should be fed on iced milk for the first day, and then on soft food for a fort- night. The sutures may be left in for three weeks or a month; if the patient is un- ruly they should be removed under chloroform. The cleft ought to heal by the first in- tention, and the lateral cuts for taking off tension, by granulation. If a portion of the cleft fails to unite by the first intention it will often heal up subsequently by granulation; if not, a second operation must be under- taken. It is somewhat doubt- ful whether the muco-perios- teum ossifies. Necrosis of the hard PALATE is generally due to the breaking down of syphi- litic gummata, and is followed by perforation and at times by destruction of the greater part of the hard and soft pa- lates, and septum of the nose. Treatment.—Large doses of iodide of potassium, and when the ulceration has ceased, an obturator to close the perfora- tion, and later a plastic operation if practicable. Acute tonsillitis may be the result of taking cold in ' a person in feeble health, or the subject of the rheumatic diathesis, or who from previous attacks has become pre- disposed to the disease; sometimes it is due to septic poisoning, as from the inhalations of sewer gas; or it may occur in the course of other diseases, as scarlet fever. Signs,—It generally begins with a slight chill, or even a rigor, followed by high temperature, furred tongue, P P 2 Fia. 212.—Position of the lateral incisions, E, E, through the mnco-peri- osteum, in the operation for cleft of hard palate. The dotted line indicates the line of junction of the hard and soft palate. (Bryant's Surgery.)