761 mcOIS'TIN'ENCE OF tJRINE. are very liable to be followed by incontinence of urine, especially in cliildren. Ij^-contijstence of urine or ENUEESis.—Involuntary escape of urine from the bladder may occur under several conditions. Thus—1. The urine may dribble away as fast as it enters the bladder, in consequence of paralysis of the sphincter vesicae and inability to close the urinary outlet {true inGontinence). 2. The urine may be passed involun- tarily during sleep without any organic change in the urinary apparatus being discoverable [nocturnal or active incontinence). 3. The urine may constantly flow away, in consequence of the bladder being over-distended and capable of holding no more {retention ivith incontinence, or false incontinence). This last condition which usually depends on obstruction to the outflow will be described under Retention of Urine (p. 791). The importance of recognizing that it is one of the nature of retention rather than of incontinence cannot be too strongly insisted upon. Whenever, therefore, a patient complains that he is unable to hold his water, or that it is continually dribbling away, an over-distended bladder should be suspected, the abdomen examined for suchj and a catheter passed. 1. True incontinence of urine is very rare. In males, it may be due—(a), to a peculiar form of enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate, whereby the 'urethra is rendered patent instead of being obstructed as is more commonly the case in enlarged prostate; (h), to a like patency of the urethra from the impaction of a calculus at the neck of the bladder or from a prostatic calculus; (c), to disease or injury of the spinal cord, implicating the lumbar enlargement, and inducing the bladder to become so contracted and thickened that it cannot hold any urine. In females it may be due—(a), to over-dilatation of the urethra, as in extracting a calculus from the bladder; (6), to injury of the parts during parturition ; and (c), to vesico-vaginal fistula. The treatment consists in removing the cause, or if this is impracticable, in rendering the patient's condition as comfortable as possible under the' circumstances by a urinary convenience. 2. Nocturnal or active incontinence generally occurs in children, and must be distinguished from the involuntary passage of urine which is an occasional symptom of thread-worms, calculus, long prepuce, or growth in the bladder. In nocturnal incontinence proper, beyond that the child wets his bed, no sign of disease of any kind is