715 HiEMORRHOIBS OR PILES. mucus exuded from the parts is a constant source of annoyance. The constitutional symptoms to which the loss of blood and the pain and irritation may give rise are pallor, palpitation, breathlessness, fainting and headache. Erom the reflex character of the pain the patient may refer the symptoms to other organs, as the testicle, bladder, kidneys, or uterus. Diagnosis.—External piles may be readily diagnosed from condylomata, polypi, and carcinoma by the characters already given. Internal piles may be suspected from the above-mentioned symptoms, and if not protruded they may generally be brought into view by asking the patient to bear down as if to defaecate, whilst the Surgeon makes gentle traction on the margin of the anus. If this does not succeed and the bowel is loaded an enema should first be given. Examination with the finger, un- less the Surgeon has had some experience, fails to detect the pile, as when neither irritated, inflamed, nor protruded, it is soft and flaccid, like the rest of the mucous membrane. The treatment of piles may be divided into the palliative and the radical. The 'palliative treatment consists in employing such means as are calculated to relieve the congestion of the haemorrhoidal veins. Thus constipation must be com- bated by the use of such laxatives as the confection of senna, compound liquorice powder, the liquid extract or cordial of cascara sagrada, or Pullna or Eriedrichshall water; whilst strong purgatives, especially aloes, high living and alcoholic stimulants, should be avoided and the secretions of the liver promoted by exercise. Where there is haemorrhage, the tincture of hamamelis or of steel will be found very useful. Locally, the parts should be kept scrupulously clean, and astringed by such applica- tions as the liquid extract of hamamelis, the compound ointment of galls, or lotions of sulphate of iron, acetate of lead, or tannic acid, passed through the sphincter; or by injections of ice cold water, to which tincture of hama- melis may be added. When the piles are inflamed, the patient should rest in bed with the buttocks raised, an ice-bag or hot poultice should be applied, and a morphia suppository introduced into the rectum. Where coagula- tion has taken place free incision into the pile and turning out the clots will give relief. The radical treatment consists in removing the piles, but should only be resorted to when palliative measures