DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 437 shoulder, and a projection in the region of the acromio- clavicular joint caused, in the upward form, by the acromial end of the clavicle, and in the downward by the acromion process. In the upward variety moreover the end of the trapezius stands out as a prominent ridge, and on pressing with one hand on the shoulder and with the other on the elbow the articular surfaces are brought into apposition and pseudo-crepitus can be obtained. Reduction is as a rule easily effected by drawing the shoulders well back- wards ; but it is difficult to retain the bones in position in consequence of the peculiar obliquity of the articulation. This may be attempted by placing a pad over the joint and applying a strap or a bandage over the shoulder and under the elbow, and then bandaging the arm to the side. I have seen the best results from rest in the horizontal position for three weeks; few patients, however, will submit to this, nor is it possibly worth their while to do so, as little inconvenience attends the dislocation, though unreduced. Dislocation of the shouldee is very common, a fact explained by the shallowness of the glenoid cavity, the large size and rounded shape of the head of the bone, the looseness of the capsule, and the powerful leverage exerted on the joint by the arm in protecting the body in falls, &c. It is most frequent in the old and middle-aged, rare in the young, and more common in men than in women. Cause.—Palls or blows directly upon the shoulder; falls on the elbow or hand with the arm extended; forcible twists of the arm ; and occasionally muscular action. Varieties,—Dislocations of the shoulder may be classi- fied according to the position of the head of the humeras into—1, forward and slightly downwards (suhcoracoid); 2, downwards and slightly forwards {subglenoid); 3, back- wards (subspinous); and 4, forwards {subclavicular) (Figs. 126, 127, 128, and 129). An upward dislocation {sub- acromial) has been described, but this form of displacement is more generally believed to be the result of chronic osteo-arthritis. Other and rarer varieties have also been described, but appear to be merely modifications of those above enumerated. The signs common to all the varieties in addition to the ordinary signs of dislocation, viz., pain, swelling, im- mobility, and absence of crepitus, are—1, flattening of the shoulder; 2, prominence of the acromion; 3, a depression