DISEASES OF BEGIOXS. 744 intervals and as often as may be necessary to completely empty the bladder; whilst in the meantime, the con- dition leading to the atony must be treated by appro- priate means. Thus, if the result of over-distension, strychnine and galvanism may be tried; if the result of gradual distension from enlarged prostate or stricture, these conditions must be treated in the way mentioned under their respective heads. In both paralysis and atony, cystitis, dilatation of the ureters, pyelitis, and dis- organization of the kidney rapidly ensue if the cause of the bladder trouble cannot be relieved. True paralysis of the bladder is nearly always the result of disease or injury of the brain or spinal cord, and is not met with except in general paralysis. The bladder being paralysed cannot empty itself, and becomes dis- tended as in atony ; and when it can hold no more, the excess overflows through the sphincter, which is also paralysed. Reflex paralysis^ however, often occurs after an injury or surgical operation, especially that for haemor- rhoids. The local treatment consists in the regular passage of a catheter two or three times daily. Tubercle op the bladder is rare, and is nearly always secondary to tubercle in other parts of the genito- urinary tract. There is pain, haemorrhage, and other signs of chronic cystitis; but the diagnosis will depend rather on the exclusion of other diseases such as stone, tumours, &c., and the presence of tubercle in other organs. Treatment.—The general constitutional remedies for tubercle should be employed together with such local remedies as are indicated for cystitis, and for the assuag- ing of the pain. These failing to relieve, cystotomy may be done and the bladder washed out, and such caseous masses of tubercle as permit of it removed. Vesico-intestinal fistula may be known by the occasional passage of faecal matter and gas by the urethra, and is usually a source of great discomfort. It commonly depends on malignant or other form of ulceration of the intestine involving the bladder. Treatment.—When the fistula is thought to be low down the intestine the abdo- men may be explored, and the colon above the fistula united to the abdominal wall and then opened. The tumours that may be met with in the bladder are :—1. The fibrous. 2. The mucous. 3. The villous or papillomatous. 4. The malignant. The fibrous and mucous spring from the sub-mucous coat, and protruding the