639 LATERAL CXJUyATURE OF THE SPINE. curve with its convexity to the right, and a shorter lumbar, or dorso-lumbar curve, with its convexity to the left. The right shoulder is generally elevated, and the angle of the right scapula, right iliac crest and left breast are prominent, whilst the left lumbar muscles, in consequence of the backward projection of the left lumbar transverse processes, stand out as a prominent ridge and give a greater sense of resistance on pressing over them than normal. In other cases the compensating curves may be so slight that there is apparently a single curve only, with its convexity either to the right or left, involving the whole spine or chiefly the upper dorsal or the lumbar vertebrae, and producing more or less projection of the scapula or apparent prominence of the iliac crest, &c., according to its severity and situation. Treatment.—Where there is evidence of general or muscular debility the health and muscular tone should be improved by suitable remedies, the avoidance of late hours, fatigue and the like; whilst the exciting cause of the curvature should be looked for and if possible removed. In slight cases, the above means, when con- joined with a judicious selection of muscular exercises and partial recumbency, will generally serve to cure or improve the curvature, or at least prevent it from getting worse. But in severe cases, when osseous changes are already confirmed, some form of rigid support, as a poro- plastic jacket, or a light spinal instrument, will commonly be required, especially for the poorer classes of patients. In ordering such supports, however, the patient should be made to thoroughly understand that no real improvement of the curvature must be expected from them, their only aim being to relieve pain when present, to give a sense of comfort and support, to improve the outward appearance, and to prevent further deformity. In slight cases they should on no account be used. The exercises that I employ are directed in part to improving the muscular tone generally, and in part to strengthening those muscles in particular that tend to lessen or straighten the curves. For the former purpose, such exercises as swinging by the hands from a bar, forcibly stretching an elastic cord fixed to the floor, and dumb-bell exercise, should be practised. For strengthening the muscles in particular that tend to straighten the curve, the back should be manipulated till that posture is found in which the curves are least marked, and the patient made to hold herself in this position for as