DISEASES OE BEGIOKS. 528 ness of the ciliary border of the lids, and either an eczematous condition of the border, or more commonly inflammation and vesication of the hair follicles with stunted and misplaced eye-lashes, followed in bad cases by scarring of the edge of the lid, and slight eversion. The best treatment is an alkaline lotion, as sodium bicar- bonate, and a weak mercurial ointment applied along the edges of the lids night and morning; in severe cases removal of the lashes and painting the borders of the lids with silver nitrate solution is advisable. The eyelashes may be the seat of the pediculus pubis, giving rise to a condition which may simulate ciliary blepharitis if there has been much irritation. Meibomian Cyst {Chalazion) is the most common form of tarsal tumour, and is due to chronic inflammation of the fundus of a Meibomian gland. It occurs as a small, hard, painless swelling, with the skin of the lid freely movable over it. On the conjunctival surface of the lid there is usually a bluish-grey discoloured spot, due to thinning of the tissues. A crucial incision should be made through this spot, and the semi-fluid contents evacuated by pressure or by a small spoon. These cysts have no wall, are generally multiple, most common in young adults, and are very prone to suppurate. Stye (hordeolum) is a localized inflammation of the cellular tissue of the lid usually about an eyelash, but sometimes in connection with the duct of a Meibomian gland. It gives rise to throbbing pain, and swelling and oedema of the lid ; it is usually succeeded by others, and is due to some derangement of the general health or error of refraction. It quickly disappears on evacuating the pus if present, or on pulling out the faulty lash. Symblepharon, or adherence of the palpebral conjunc- tiva to the ocular conjunctiva or cornea, may occur owing to inflammation following burns, wounds, and ulcerations. CoNGEmTAL Maleormations of the lids are, ptosis (drooping of the upper lid), ejpicanthus (a fold of skin stretching across the inner canthus and concealing the caruncle), and colohoma (a deficiency of part of the lid). The muscular System oe the Lids may be affected by spasm of the orbicularis palpebrarum (blepharospasm), paralysis of the orbicularis giving rise to inability to close the eye, and paralysis of the levator palpebrse producing ptosis. Inversion oe the Eyelid {Entropion) is produced by