58 GENERAL I'ATSOLOGY OF StJlK^ICAL DISEASES* Peimary syphilis.—The primary or infecting chancre, or hard sore as it is sometimes called, though most often met with on the genitals, may occur on any part of the body exposed to infection, and hence is not infrequent on the fingers of accoucheurs, the lips, nipple, &c. On the genitals its most frequent situation is on the prepuce just behind the corona glandis in the male, and on the inner surface of the labia in the female; but it is often met with on the glans, the skin of the penis, and just within the urethra ; more rarely on the vaginal walls and OS uteri. It is commonly produced by direct con- tact with another chancre, or a mucous tubercle or other secondary lesion; but it may also be contracted indirectly in many ways, as by drinking out of an infected vessel, or by inoculation with infected lymph in vaccination. The exact nature of the virus is not known, but is believed by many to be a specific form of bacillus. It is probable that it is generally inoculated through a crack or abrasion, except in situations where the skin or mucous membrane is very thin and delicate. The period of incubation varies from ten days to six or seven weeks or even longer. When, however, the syphilitic virus is inoculated in the pure state it usually gives rise to no sign till three to five weeks, when a small papule will be noticed, which enlarges and becomes indurated at the base, and may either remain as an indurated nodule throughout or if irritated change into a small ulcer. Not infrequently, however, the virus may be conveyed in the pus of a non-infecting or soft chancre, under which circumstances a soft chancre will form in two or three days whilst the syphilitic poison is still circulating in the system, and after the incubative period is passed will manifest itself locally by induration about the base of the soft sore, or, if this is healed, by an indurated nodule at its former site. The characters of an infecting chancre vary. In the typical form {Hitnterian chancre), it is raised though slightly depressed at its centre, whilst its surface is either glazed or covered with epithelial debris or scanty secretion; there is scarcely any inflammation, but marked and sharply circumscribed induration about its base. The induration, however, may be absent in chancres on the glans penis and on the female genitals, and is seldom well marked in chancres on parts of the body other than the genitals. It must be borne in mind, moreover, that a non-infecting