RETENTION OF URINE. 793 following operations, a well-oiled soft rubber catheter should be passed. When the spasm is associated with a severe organic stricture other means may have to be taken. See TreaU ment of Eeteyition from Organic Stricture. 2. Retention from congestion of the mucous membrane of the urethra, sometimes known as congestive stricture. Con- gestion, like spasm, is seldom sufficient of itself to pro- duce retention; and is nearly always associated with at least a slight organic stricture or with some enlargement of the prostate. It is usually the result of gonorrhoea, or other conditions causing inflammation of the urethra. The treatment is similar to that of retention from spasm. 3. Retention from hypertrophy of the prostate only occurs after middle life. It is then generally due to congestion induced by cold, the abuse of alcohol, &c., causing the already existing obstruction to become complete, i^irst, try to pass the French single coude catheter (Fig. 296), then the double coude (Fig. 297), and these failing, a gum-elastic catheter with a large curve. Should the point hitch at the middle lobe of the prostate, withdraw- ing the stylet for half an inch will cause the end to slightly tilt up, and it will then often readily glide into the bladder. If not successful in this way the silver prostatic or the beaked catheter must next be tried, but serious mischief may be done by these instruments unless the greatest gentleness is used. They should never be em- ployed until other forms have failed. If a catheter passes easily it may be withdrawn after the bladder is relieved; but if passed with difficulty it had better be left in, as more harm may be done by having to pass it again than by leaving it in situ. When the bladder is greatly distended all the urine should not be drawn off at once, lest syncope be induced. A catheter failing, the retention may be re- lieved by: 1, puncture above the pubes; 2, puncture through the rectum ; and 3, forcing a catheter through the prostate {tunnelling). The first method is decidedly the best. The second is seldom applicable, as the en- largement, as a rule, leaves no room between the pros- tate and the pouch of peritoneum for puncture, which, if attempted, will probably wound the peritoneum. The third method is attended with extreme danger, and is seldom practised at the present day. 4. Retention from organic stricture.—The symptoms and diagnosis of stricture have already been described. Here