582 DISEASES OF REGIONS. genital syphilis. Like the syphilitic it may lead to extensive destruction of the parts. Malignant ulceration is due to the breaking down of epitheliomatous and sarcomatous growths. It may be known by the sinuous, everted, and indurated edges of the ulcer and other signs of malignancy. Tumours or the tonsil,—Sarcoma and epithelioma occasionally occur in the tonsil. They grow rapidly, soon affect the lymphatic glands in the neck, and extend to surrounding parts. Unless detected and removed whilst they are quite small and localized to the tonsil they are beyond the reach of surgery. Other tumours in this region are rare. DISEASES OE THE GUMS Ato JAWS. Hypertrophy of the gums has been observed as a congenital affection, and may be met with where there is overcrowding of the teeth as a lobulated fringe-like growth of the gums, which, in severe cases, may so sur- round the teeth that they appear as if buried in it. The hypertrophied portion should be shaved off, and one or more of the teeth extracted. Polypi of the gums, as they , are called, are merely ^ overgrowths of the little tongue of gum between the ■ teeth, and appear generally to depend on the presence ^ of tartar or caries. The offending tooth should be scaled, stopped or extracted, and the growth cut off. Papillomata, or warty growths, occasionally occur on the gums. They are generally pedunculated, and can be readily snipped o:ff with scissors. Spongy gums may occur as the result of scurvy or the abuse of mercury, and are sometimes met with in strumous children. The condition is often associated with superficial ulceration. The treatment consists in the removal of the cause, the use of an astringent mouth- wash, and the constitutional remedies appropriate to scurvy or struma. Alveolar abscess may be quite superficial {gum-boil) and merely require a slight prick; or it may form around the fang of a carious tooth, and then either make its way to the surface by the side of the tooth, or expand i the alveolus and perforate the bone. In the latter case it may track below the reflexion of the mucous