CARIES OF THE SPINE. 641 in growing lads and girls the correction of stooping habits by the use of muscular exercises and a spinal brace (Fig. 245), with partial recumbency, and tonics, is the treatment usually indicated. For the confirmed kyphosis of the old, nothing can be done. Lordosis, or curving of the spine with the convexity forwards, is a symptom rather than a disease, inasmuch as it is formed as a compensatory curve to restore the equilibrium of the spine when from any cause its normal antero-posterior curves are disturbed. Thus it is most common in the lumbar region, where it is merely an exaggeration of the normal curve; and is there produced to counterbalance the tilting forward of the pelvis consequent upon hip- disease, congenital dislocation of the hips, rickets, &c. Caries of the spine, also called Pott's disease after the Surgeon who first accurately described it, is charac- terized by the destruction of one or more of the bodies of the vertebrae or intervertebral cartilages, and in con- sequence of this destruction is too frequently attended by the falling for- ward of the vertebrae above the seat of disease, and the production of angular deformity of the spine. Hence it is often spoken of as angular cur- vature. The curve, however, is only a symptom, and a comparatively late one, of the disease, and ought not to be allowed to form. Causes,—The disease generally occurs in strumous children, and is then believed, like fungating caries in the articular ends of bone, to be due either to a low form of infiammation set up by a slight injury, or to a deposit of tubercle dependent upon the introduction of tubercle bacilli into the circulation in the manner already mentioned in the section on Tubercle. It some- times occurs in adults who are otherwise perfectly healthy, and can then generally be traced to some injury of the back — probably a strain of the inter- vertebral cartilages. Pathology.—The disease most frequently begins in the bodies of the vertebrae, less frequently in the inter- vertebral cartilages; but in either case both structures Fig, 245. — Au- thor s . spinal brace. W. T T