732 DISEASES OF HEGIOI^^S. sions, and death from uraemia quickly ensue. Treatment. —Dry or wet cupping the loins, hot vapour baths, free purging as by elaterium and croton oil, injections of pilocarpine, and hot enemata per rectum, are at times successful in relieving the congested kidney. Operations on the Kidney, Aspiration" of the kidney may be performed either for the purpose of diagnosing a renal swelling., or for the relief of such affections as hydronephrosis, pyonephrosis, or hydatid or blood cysts. It should be done with the ordinary precautions, any prominent or fluctuating spot being chosen for the puncture. Nephrotomy consists in making an incision into the kidney for the purpose of evacuating and draining the fluid or pus in the case of hydronephrosis, pyonephrosis, hydatid cyst, abscess, &c. The tumour may be exposed by the lumbar or lateral incision as described in nephrec- tomy. An incision is made into the kidney, the fluid allowed to run out, the wound thoroughly irrigated with some antiseptic solution, and insufflated with iodoform, a large-sized drainage-tube inserted into it, and voluminous dressings of absorbent cotton and the like applied to receive the subsequent discharges. Nephro-LITHOTOMY consists in cutting into a kidney for the purpose of extracting a calculus. The kidney may be exposed either by the lumbar or lateral incision as described in nephrectomy. If a stone is felt, an incision should be carefully made over it, the finger or forceps introduced, and the stone extracted. If one cannot be felt a needle should be thrust into the kidney at several situations, and this failing, an incision should be made into it, and the finger and a probe introduced to search for the stone. A drainage-tube should be placed in the wound, and an antiseptic and absorbent dressing applied. The urine will at first escape through the wound, but will cease to do so as a rule after a longer or shorter interval. Nephrectomy, or removal of the kidney, may be done for—1. A large renal calculus. 2. Tuberculous disease with exhausting discharge. 3. Hydronephrosis. 4. Malignant and other tumours. 5. Moveable kidney attended with severe neuralgic pain. The operation may