313 SPECIAL ANEUEYSMS. swelling, should be tried. Galvano-puncture and the introduction of coagulants have been employed success- fully in this aneurysm. Inguinal aneurysms are those which involve either the termination of the external iliac, or the commence- ment of the femoral. They may extend either upwards along the course of the iliac into the abdomen, or down- wards in the course of the femoral into the thigh. They may have to be diagnosed from enlarged inguinal glands over the artery, tumours, especially pulsating tumours of the pelvic bones, and abscesses. From abscess and tumour they may be distinguished by the signs already several times alluded to. Their diagnosis from pulsating tumours of bone is often very difficult, and the external iliac has before now been tied by the most skilful Surgeons under the impression that such a tumour was an aneurysm. The diagnostic points have already been given under Fulsatile Tumours of Bone and Diagnosis of Aneurysm (pp. 249, 297). Treatment.—1. When the aneurysm is of moderate dimensions, and involves only a small portion of the external iliac, this vessel should be tied, or if preferred, an attempt may first be made to compress it. 2. Where there is apparently not room to apply a ligature to the vessel, rapid compression of the abdominal aorta may be employed, combined in some cases with distal pressure. 3. Where there is not room for the tourniquet on the aorta, medical means must be relied on, or Macewen's method tried. This failing the common iliac may be tied; or the desperate experiment made of tying the aorta, or injecting coagulants, or pass- ing iron wire into the sac. On the whole if pressure or Macewen's method fail, ligature of the common iliac by the intraperitoneal method perhaps holds out the best chance of success. Eemoral aneurysm requires no special remark other than that when situated in Hunter's canal, the femoral should be compressed or tied in Scarpa's triangle. When' situated in Scarpa's triangle, the external iliac may be treated in the same way. In either situation Esmarch's bandage may be used if this method of treatment com- mends itself to the Surgeon's judgment. Popliteal aneurysm.—The frequency of aneurysm in this situation is attributed to—1, the bifurcation of the popliteal artery into the anterior and posterior tibial whereby the circulation through it may be slightly ob -