526 DISEASES OE REGIONS. are usually of a dark colour, will float about if they are in the vitreous. The lamp 'should next be moved on a level with the patient's head and on the same side as the eye under examination. On now bringing the ophthal- moscope to about 2 inches from the patient's cornea, and at the same time relaxing your own accommodation and telling him to look into the far distance and to move his eye about as you direct, inspect the details of the fundus. If the patient has an error of refraction it is necessary to correct it by a suitable lens behind the sight hole. Now place a lens of nine dioptres behind the sight hole to in- vestigate the vitreous and the posterior part of the lens, and one of twenty dioptres to see the cornea, anterior chamber, iris and anterior part of the lens. (5.) The indirect method is perhaps easier to a beginner and gives an extensive and rapid view of the fundus, but is not so accurate as to minute details. At a distance of 18 inches look through the sight hole, your right eye at the patient's right eye, and vice versa, telling him to look into the far distance (to relax his accommodation) in the same direction as the fingers holding the ophthalmoscope if the disk is to be examined, or at the sight hole if the yellow spot region is to be investigated. After obtaining the red reflex, hold a lens of about 2^ inches focal length between you and the patient and at about 2^ inches from the patient's eye; an inverted view of the fundus will be thus obtained. The following are the chief details to be observed in the normal fundus. The optic disk is greyish-pink, lighter than the rest of the fundus, and nearly circular in shape ; its centre is sometimes stippled {lamina cribrosa)', and often depressed {physiological cup) with the retinal vessels dipping into it. The periphery of the disk is usually lighter in colour {scleral ring) and often bordered in part by pigment. Occasionally an opaque white striated patch radiating from the edge of the disk, is seen with its margin gradually thinning out {opaque nerve fibres). The rest of the fundus is bright red, with the retinal vessels on it; sometimes the choroidal vessels may be seen plainly as a network and of a lighter colour than the retinal vessels. At the yellow spot the choroidal red is generally deeper in colour and there are no blood-vessels. The retinal arteries are as a rule smaller and lighter in colour than the veins; both usually divide at a short distance from the disk into superior and inferior temporal and nasal branches. The