26 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY OE vSUEGICAL DISEASES. abscess may briefly be said to be tbe presence of the pyogenic micro-organisms in tissues wbose vitality has been lowered by the persistent action of an irritant. The micro-organisms which appear to be chiefly con- cerned in the process of suppuration are the Staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus and the Streptococcus pyogenes. The Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus is found in inflam- mations running on to suppuration and abscess, and is always present wherever necrosis of tissues is taking place. The organisms are found gathered in grape-like masses, and the growth in an artificial culture is com- monly golden-coloured, but there are varieties in which the culture is white or lemon-coloured. These organisms occur in suppurating wounds, in pustular inflammations of the skin, in suppuration in bone, in suppurating joints, in acute periostitis and osteomyelitis, in purulent perito- nitis and in empysema and other deep abscesses. They may extend from a wound either by the lymphatics or by the veins and give rise to metastatic abscesses (pyaemia), or they may enter the system through ulcers of the respiratory or digestive tract. The exact point of entry in acute periostitis and osteo-myelitis, ulcerative endo- carditis and empysema is uncertain. The Streptococcus pyogenes is more especially found in suppuration attended by phlegmonous or purulent oedema with a tendency to spread. The organisms occur in chains. The suppurations in which they appear to be chiefly con- cerned may start in a septic wound of the skin, or the puerperal uterus, or on a mucous or serous surface in con- tact with decomposing substances. The absorption of the chemical products (p^omames) produced by these organisms is very liable to occur, giving rise to general septic poison- ing [saprcemia)^ or if the micro-organisms themselves also gain access to the circulation they may become lodged in the capillaries and produce metastatic abscesses, so that the toxic symptoms produced by the absorption of the ptomaines may be accompanied by metastatic {pycemic) abscesses. The two foregoing micro-organisms, though the chief, are not the only ones associated with suppuration; other forms of micrococci and even of bacilli may also at times be found in pus. The Streptococcus erysipelatosm and the Micrococcus gonorrhoeoe, which are closely allied to the Streptococcus pyogenes, are referred to under Erysipelas and Gonorrhoea. The Symptoms of an acute abscess are at first those of