464 INJURIES OF REGIOI^S. occurs. Signs.—Swelling from effusion of blood, and later of serum, into the joint; inability of the patient as a rule to extend his arm; and generally, the presence of a gap between the fragments. Method of union.—Usually fibrous; but when the separation of the fragments is slight, it may be bony. Treatment.—Place the elbow in a position of slight flexion on a jointed splint, and apply evaporating lotions till the swelling has subsided. An attempt may be made to bring down the detached fragments by strapping and a bandage. Passive move- ments should be begun early to prevent ankylosis (seventh day, Hamilton). Many advise that the arm should be put up in full extension; but this is objectionable, as it causes the olecranon to form an angle with the shaft. Mr. Heath on the other hand strongly recommends flexion of the arm to a right angle. 2. The coronoid process of the ulna, except in disloca- tion of the ulna and radius backwards, is rarely fractured. It is said at times to occur from a violent contraction of the brachialis anticus muscle. Signs.—When fracture of the coronoid is present in dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards, the dislocation is readily reduced but immediately returns on relaxing the extending force. When fracture of the coronoid is not present, the dis- location is more difficult to reduce; but when once reduced, has no tendency to recur. Treatment.—After reducing the dislocation, place the arm in a flexed position on an inside angular splint. Employ passive movements early. 3. The shaft of the ulna is occasionally fractured without implication of the radius. Cause.—Direct violence. Nature of the displacement.—The upper fragment is not displaced, being held in position by its hinge-shaped articulation with the humerus. The lower fragment is drawn towards the radius by the pronator quadratus. Signs.—It is readily detected by running the finger along the prominent posterior border of the bone, when a gap or irregularity is felt, and by crepitus on movement. Trefttment.—Similar to that of fracture of the radius. The carpus, metacarpus and phalanges.—Frac- tures of these bones require no special mention. They may be diagnosed by the deformity and crepitus. Best for a few weeks on a splint, followed by passive movements to prevent stiffness, is all that is generally necessary.