778 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. patient should be prepared for a further trial by rest in bed for a week or so, daily hot baths, purgatives, and the administration of opium. When other means have failed, before resorting to a cutting operation, electrolysis under some circumstances may be tried. Slow or intermittent dilatation is the simplest and safest method of treatment, and does not usually necessitate the patient leaving his ordinary employment. The various catheters and bougies employed are so well known as hardly to require description here. All that need be said is that the soft, flexible, black French bougie, with a bulbous end, is now as a rule generally preferred to a metal or gum-elastic instrument. A bougie or catheter should be passed once or twice a week, beginning with the largest instrument that can be intro- duced without using force. On the next occasion the same instrument should be again passed and at once withdrawn, and the next size substituted for it, and allowed to remain for a few minutes. In this way the urethra is gradually dilated to its full size. Formerly it was not thought necessary to pass a larger instrument than No. 12, English scale; now, however, few surgeons are satisfied till the dilatation has been carried to the size of No. 14. To prevent recontraction the patient should be taught to pass a catheter for himself, and instructed to do so at first about every month or six weeks, and subsequently two or three times a year, according to the tendency the stricture may show to recontract. Eapid or CONTINUOUS DILATATION is very useful: 1, when time is an object; 2, when much difiiculty has attended the introduction of an instrument owing to the tightness of the stricture or presence of a false passage ; 3, when the passage of an instrument causes great pain, irritation, heematuria, or rigors; 4, when gradual dila- tation has failed. It consists in tying in a silver catheter for twenty to forty-eight hours, and, on removing it, tying in a size or two larger, and so on till the urethra is fully dilated. The instrument should not fit the stricture too tightly, and its end should not project far into the bladder. It is better, as soon as the stricture begins to yield, to substitute a gum-elastic for a metal instrument. This method necessitates confinement to the couch or bed for ten days or a fortnight, and is not unattended with risk. It frequently causes great pain ; and rigors, fever, urethritis, cystitis, epididymitis, and ulceration of