BRONCHO CELE. 633 firmly fixed to surrounding parts, or if malignant, unless quite small and the skin and glands are not to any extent involved, it should be left alone. The Operation.—Make a free longitudinal incision through the skin and fascia to thoroughly expose the tumour; it will then often readily shell out of its capsule; if not, draw it forward with vulsellum forceps, and separate its deeper attach- ments with the handle of the scalpel and occasional touches of the knife, the edge of which should be turned towards the tumour to avoid the branches of the facial nerve and other important structures. The proximity of the carotids should not be forgotten. DISEASES OE THE THYROID GLAND. BrONCHOCELE, goitre or DERBYSHIRE NECK is an enlargement of the thyroid gland. It may be due, as is commonly the case, to the simple hypertrophy of the normal tissues of the organ (ordinary goitre)^ and may then involve the whole gland or one of the lateral lobes, or only the isthmus. In other instances the hypertrophy may fall chiefly on the fibrous tissue constituting the septa of the gland [fibrous goitre). Or along with some amount of simple hypertrophy, or of increase of fibrous tissue, one or more of the normal alveolar spaces may become enlarged, forming single or multiple cysts [cystic goitre). Such cysts contain when single a serous fluid, or when multiple a colloid or a dark grumous material sometimes mixed with altered blood; whilst occasionally proliferating growths project into their interior from the cyst-walls. In other instances again, but more rarely, the hypertrophy is associated with a great increase in the vessels, and a forcible and expansile pulsation is given to the gland {pulsating gottre). But the tissues, besides hypertrophy, may undergo secondary changes. Thus calcification may occur, and the enlarged gland become in places of stony hardness [calcified goitre), or the fluid normally contained, in the alveolar cavities may assume a colloid character. Lastly, the enlargement of the thyroid - may be due to malignant disease [malignant goitre). Groitre in certain districts is endemic, especially in the Ehone Yalley in Switzerland, and in Derbyshire, and is then frequently associated with the condition known as cretinism. It also occurs sporadically ; and in some cases