450 INJURIES OF REGIONS. pollicis, and bend back the first pbalanx on tbe meta- carpal bone nntil the extremity of the thumb points towards the wrist, thus forcing the base of the phalanx wedge-wise between the two insertions of the short flexor. Next flex the phalanx while an assistant, by placing his thumb behind its base, prevents it slipping back. The head of the metacarpal bone will now probably slide into its place between the two insertions of the flexor brevis pollicis, which are forced apart by the wedge-like action of the base of the phalanx. Eeduction may sometimes be accomplished by extension, e.g., by the clove-hitch, or if, at hand, by the Indian puzzle-toy or the American for- ceps—a method, however, less scientific than that of manipulation, and one which seldom succeeds if the other fails. These means not proving successful, it is usually advised that the insertion of the flexor brevis pollicis should be subcutaneously divided. Sir George Hum- phry, however, recommends an incision over the sesamoid bones and the introduction of a hook to hitch the sesa- moid bones over the head of the metacarpal. In this way, he says, the reduction is immediately e:ffected. As a last resource, the joint may be cut down upon, the bands resisting reduction divided and the bone replaced, or the joint may be excised, or better, left alone, as very fair movement will, as a rule, in time be gained. Fractures of the Upper Extremity, Fractxjres of the clavicle are divided into fractures of—1, the shaft; 2, the acromial end ; and 3, the sternal end. I. The shaft may be fractured by direct violence, or, as is more commonly the case, by indirect violence, such as a fall upon the arm or shoulder; more rarely by mus- cular action. Situations.—"When the result of indirect violence or muscular action the bone is generally broken near its centre—its weakest part. When due to direct violence, the bone will break wherever the force is ap- plied. Nature of the displacement.—The inner fragment, although it appears raised in consequence of the depres- sion of the outer, is not displaced, being held in position by the sterno-mastoid and the rhomboid ligament; the outer fragment is drawn downwards, forwards and inwards by the weight of the arm and the contraction of the pectoral muscles. The signs in an adult are usually very evident.