INJURIES OF VEINS AND NERVES. 213 as soon as practicable. Pouring water into the wound has been suggested both as a means of preventing the further entrance of air during inspiration, and of allowing that which is already in to bubble out during expiration. The patient should be placed with his head low to ensure a sufficient supply of blood to the brain, and for the same purpose the arteries of the extremities should be com- pressed, whilst injections of ether or brandy should be given subcutaneously to stimulate the heart. Artificial respiration should not be performed till the vein is secured, lest more air be sucked in. To guard against the acci- dent the veins should be clamped before division, and in removing a tumour traction should not be made at the moment the vein is severed. INJURIES OF NERVES. Wounds of nerves.—A nerve may be completely or partially divided, and the wound may be of an incised, lacerated, contused, or punctured character. Pathology.—After complete division of a nerve the divided ends slightly retract, and should union not be effected, either naturally or by surgical means, the por- tion of nerve below the injury being cut o:ff from its trophic centre, undergoes atrophy and degenerates through- out its entire length [Wallerian degeneration). In the meanwhile the portion of nerve immediately above the wound is converted into a bulbous swelling by the prolife- ration of the fibrous tissue of the sheath and its prolonga- tions within the nerve. The nerve-fibres within the bul- bous end, being compressed by the newly-formed fibrous tissue, undergo atrophy and degeneration, but the rest of the nerve above the injury remains unimpaired. On microscopic examination of the bulbous end, numerous young nerve-fibres are seen in the fibrous tissue (Bowlby). Should union on the other hand occur, the process by which it is effected is briefly as follows :—Inflammatory material is thrown out between the divided ends, and forms a delicate fibrous network bridging the gap; into this the axis-cylinders of the upper end are said to grow out and unite with the degenerated axis-cylinders in the lower end, which then becomes gradually restored from above downwards. By some it is believed that new axis-cylinders "are developed from the nuclei of the