197 TREATMENT OE DISLOCATIONS. Before the introduction of chloroform this was usually effected by the coatraction of the muscles themselves, after the head had been drawn down by the extending force. In old-standing cases, before either manipulation or extension is employed, the adhesions, which offer the chief obstacle to reduction, should be first broken down by cautiously rotating or circumducting the limb. When the rent in the capsule has united, the old socket been filled up, and a new joint formed, reduction is of course physically impossible ; even then, however, the breaking clown of the adhesions may greatly improve the range of motion and consequent usefulness of the limb. In attempting the reduction of a long-standing disloca- tion, however, great care must be exercised, or irreparable damage may be done. Eather than use any great vio- lence it may in some cases be justifiable to cut down upon the dislocation and divide any bands which may be found preventing reduction. Not only may the accidents below enumerated be thus avoided, but reduction may be safely accomplished at later periods than was formerly possible, and with antiseptic treatment of the wound good move- ment of the joint may be expected. Among the accidents that have attended violent efforts at reduction may be mentioned :—1. Eupture of the main artery, vein or nerves. 2. Laceration of muscles and tendons. 3. Tearing open the skin and soft tissues, thus rendering the dislocation compound. 4. Fracture of the bone. 5. Inflammation and suppuration of the joint and suiTOunding parts; and 6. The evulsion of the limb. How long after a dislocation may an attempt he made at reduction ?—Sir Astley Cooper gave the time at between three and four months; but since the introduction of chloroform successful cases have been reported after much longer periods. In an old-standing case the circum- stances which should influence us in deciding whether an' attempt at reduction should be made are :—the age of the patient, the situation of the dislocation, the presence or absence of pain, and the amount of usefulness of the limb. By the new method of open division of the adhesions about the joint, the time at which the dislocation can be reduced is considerably extended. This method, how- ever, should not be employed unless the movements of the joint are much restricted, and the usefulness of the limb in consequence is impaired.