635 ACUTE GOtTRE. The cyst is then left to granulate from the bottom. For my own part I prefer shelling the cyst out from the rest of the gland, which can as a rule be readily done. Where great dyspnoea has threatened suffocation, the gland has been removed ; but since it has been shown that such removal is productive of myxoedema or a condition like it {strumapriva), it is a question whether complete re- moval is ever justifiable. It is better to divide the isthmus in the middle line for the purpose of freeing the trachea (which is compressed laterally, not from before backwards) or to remove the isthmus or one lobe of the gland, when the rest will generally shrink. If necessary to remove both lateral lobes the lower end of each should be left, namely thut part into which the inferior thyroid artery enters. The recurrent nerves are not then endangered {Mikulicz's operation). In removing either lateral lobe of the gland it should be borne in mind that, although the common carotid artery is pushed outwards, the internal jugular vein usually runs over the tumour, being held more or less in position by the veins opening into it. The pulsation of the artery is, therefore, no guide to the posi- tion of the vein, which may run in front of, or internal to the artery. Care should also be taken not to open the thin capsule of fascia surrounding the gland either in front or at the outer side in order to avoid wounding the large and thin-walled veins which lie beneath it. Behind, where this capsule is reflected on to the larynx and trachea, it must necessarily be divided. At this spot the veins should be tied. Endemic goitre admits of little treatment other than removal of the patient from the goitrous district. Malignant goitre except when it in- volves only a portion of the gland is not amenable to treatment. For the treatment of exophthalmic goitre see a work on Medicine. Acute goitre.—Goitre, though usually chronic, some- times occurs in an acute form, the gland increasing to the size of an orange in a few days, and causing severe, or it may be fatal, dyspnoea, from pressure on the trachea in consequence of the enlargement taking place so rapidly that the fascia of the neck has not time to yield. It occurs in young subjects both sporadically and endemi- cally. In these instances it sometimes makes its way behind the sternum, so that it is difficult to get below it, even if tracheotomy is performed. The cause of the dyspnoea may not be very evident before the operation.