EXCISION OF JOINTS. 275 The operation.—Make an incision about four inches long from just outside the coracoid through the substance of the deltoid down to the bone ; detach the long tendon of the biceps from its groove, and give it to an assistant to hold aside with blunt hooks. The arm being rotated inwards, divide the teres minor, infraspinatus, and supra- spinatus tendons at their insertion into the bone. The arm being next rotated outwards, divide the tendon of the subscapularis, and the head of the bone can be pushed out of the incision. Separate the periosteum as far as is necessary, place a retractor behind the neck of the bone to protect the soft parts, and saw it across. Bring the wound together by suture, place a drain-tube in the lower part and dress antiseptically. The elbow may be excised for chronic disease of the joint, gunshot or other injury, and osseous ankylosis. Some surgeons only recommend excision for ankylosis, when the elbow is fixed in a faulty position. The opera- tion, however, is attended with so little risk, and the advantages of a moveable elbow are so great, and the results so good, that others unhesitatingly excise the joint in whatever position it may be fixed. The operation may be performed in several ways; but that by the single vertical incision {LangenhecWs) is undoubtedly the best and the one most frequently practised. Make a vertical incision about five inches long over the back of the joint, beginning about two and a half inches above the ole- cranon, and carry it over this process and down the ridge on the ulna for the same distance. The incision should extend in its whole length down to the bones. Cut into the joint above the olecranon and clear the condyles of the soft tissues by keeping the edge of the knife in contact with the bone, taking special care not to injure the ulnar nerve behind the internal condyle. Divide the lateral ligaments, and whilst the assistant strongly flexes I the j oint to force the bones out of the wound, free them i from their remaining connections, and saw off the olecranon, the head of the radius, and the lower end of I the humerus, steadying the parts with the lion forceps. If possible, the coronoid process of the ulna and the tubercle of the radius should not be removed, and the shaft of the humerus not encroached upon. Preserve the connection of the anconeus with the triceps, as better extension of the arm will be thus obtained. Unite the wound by sutures, after inserting a drain, and place the T 2