- . COMMON OR VAGINAL HYDROCELE. 803 taiiied in a cyst formed in connection with the spermatic cord {encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord). The con- dition described by Pott and Scarpa as diffuse hydrocele 0/ the spermatic cord, appears to be a general dropsy of the loose connective tissue of the cord, and is so rare that it may be dismissed without further comment. Common or vaginal hydrocele is a collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Causes.—Infancy, middle age, heredity, gout, and malaria are said to predispose to it; whilst slight injuries, repeated strains, the presence of loose bodies in the tunica vaginalis, and certain chronic diseases of the testicle are sometimes exciting causes. Often however no apparently eflicient cause whatever can be discovered. Pathology.—By some it is looked upon as a passive dropsy, due to the loss of balance between the secreting and absorbing power of the tunica vaginalis; by others it is believed to be due to chronic inflammation. The fluid is of a pale straw colour, with a specific gravity of 1020 to 1030, and contains a large quantity of albumen. The dilated tunica vaginalis is usually thin ; but in long standing cases it is occasionally greatly thickened, and may be of cartilaginous consistency. The coverings are the same as those of the testicle, viz., skin, superficial fascia, dartos, and intercolumnar, cremasteric and infundi- buliform fasciae. Symptoms.—Ordinary hydrocele forms a smooth, tense, elastic or fluctuating swelling in the scrotum, of a pyri- form, globular or oval shape, and is frequently slightly constricted at its middle or at its lower or upper part. The chief diagnostic sign is its translucency. If the walls are very thick it may appear opaque when examined for translucency in the usual way by the light of a candle ; but I have never met with a hydrocele, however thick its walls, which was not found translucent when a powerful light, as that of an ophthalmoscopic lamp, was used. The cord is free, and there is no impulse on cough- ing, signs which serve to distinguish it from a hernia. When the hydrocele extends up the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis into the inguinal canal there may however be a transmitted impulse from the abdominal wall; it might then be mistaken for an irreducible hernia. The dulness on percussion, the history that it began at the bottom of the scrotum, and the translucency, if the light be powerful enough, will distinguish it. The 3 E 2