685 TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. the surface, leaving him with a faecal fistula. In other cases general peritonitis supervenes, or the intestine gives way above the stricture and so peritonitis results. The symptoms are local and general. Local symptoms.— The hernia, if previously reducible, is no longer so ; it becomes tender or painful on handling, tense, and often tympanitic; and the impulse on coughing is lost. Pain may be present in the hernia, but is generally referred to the region of the umbilicus. The skin is usually natural, but where gangrene has occurred, it may become mottled, or brick-dust red, and emphysematous, and exhale a fsecal odour. Cessation of pain may then occur, but is a delusive sign. The general symptoms are those of intes- tinal obstruction, the two chief being vomiting and constipation. The vomiting is of a peculiar gushing cha- racter, with little or no retching. The vomit at first consists of the contents of the stomach, but soon becomes bile-stained, and finally fsecal, i.e., thin and brownish- ; yellow, with a distinct odour of faeces. The constipation is complete (except in Eichter's hernia), flatus not even ; passing, although at first the contents of the large intestine i may be voided, either naturally or after an enema. The \ face becomes pinched and anxious, the pulse small and ; wiry, the tongue furred and brown, and if strangulation I is not relieved, the patient may die of collaj)se, general I peritonitis, or exhaustion from constant vomiting. Very I occasionally a faecal abscess may form and the patient j recover with a faecal fistula. Space will not permit of a ' description of the variations in the symptoms that may ' be met with, and it must suffice to say that as a rule in young patients with recent hernia they are more acute, and call more imperatively for immediate relief than in older patients, the subjects of irreducible hernia of long standing in whom they assume a more chronic character. Treatment,—It cannot be too strongly impressed on the mind of the student that it is of vital importance to release the strangulated intestine; that this as a rule admits of no delay; that every hour adds to the danger I (gangrene may occur within twenty-four hours) that the result of the case will depend to a great extent upon the length of time the strangulation has existed; I that purgatives for overcoming the obstruction are not only useless but absolutely injurious; and that pro- longed and forcible attempts to return the bowel by the taxis are unjustifiable and wholly to be condemned.