tlNOTITED FRACTURE AKD FALSE JOINT. 181 the part physiological after-treatment is required. Thus it will often be found after the apparatus is finally re-' moved, especially if the fracture is near a joint, that the joint is stiff, the tendons are more or less glued together,, and the muscles wasted and atrophied. Under these circumstances shampooing, massage, electricity, friction with stimulating liniments, and passive movements of the joint, should be sedulously employed. 4. The general health and comfort of the patient should not be neglected. Thus if he is confined to bed, boards should be substituted for the ordinary webbing or steel laths of the bedstead; the sheets should be kept smooth; and bed-sores guarded against by the use of water- cushions and by hardening the skin over prominent parts of bone with spirit lotions. Old people should not be kept too long in bed, lest passive congestions of the lungs occur. The general health should be promoted by attention to the secretions, regulation of the diet, and administration of sedatives to relieve pain and pro- mote sleep. U^^'UNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE JOINT.—An ununited fracture is one in which the fragments are either totally ununited, or merely bound together by fibrous tissue. Some fractures, such as transverse fractures of the patella, and fractures extending into joints in general, seldom or never unite by bone, but remain merely bound together by fibrous tissue; but as fibrous union here appears to be the normal method of repair they are not, as a rule, spoken of as ununited fractures. The condition of the fragments varies. They may be completely separated, with the ends rounded off and the medullary canal closed; or they may be bound together by long pliable bands of fibrous tissue permitting of considerable movement, or by tough fibrous bands allowing of but very little, or by a fibre-cartilaginous material—a kind of ensheathing callus. The last condition, however, is thought by some to be merely an example of delayed union and not one of permanent ununited fracture. A false joint or pseudarthrosis is merely a variety of ununited fracture in which the ends of the fragments are rounded off and eburnated, or covered with a layer of fibrous tissue or fibre-cartilage, and enclosed in a strong fibrous capsule formed by the condensation of the sur- ji rounding soft tissues (Fig. 41). A fluid resembling Ij synovia has occasionally been found within the capsule.