OYARIAN TUMOURS. 825 contraction of cicatrices following ulceration, &c. The I absence of the uterus may be determined by introducing I a catheter into the bladder, and the finger into the rec- tum, when the two will be felt to be in close apposition. In such a case no operation should be undertaken,^ as all I that would be achieved would be to open the peritoneal cavity. Where the uterus and ovaries are present, and dissension has occurred, if the vagina is only partially absent an attempt may be made to form a vagina by dissecting carefully through the tissues between the ! bladder and the rectum in the direction of the os. When this is found, the parts must then be prevented from re- adhering by introducing laminaria tents, frequent digital examinations, &c. Where the vagina is completely absent the uterus may become distended, and may then either be punctured through the rectum, or in some instances together with the ovaries be removed. Cystocele and "rectocele are the names given ^ to a prolapse of the anterior and posterior wall of the vagina respectively. In the former the bladder of course pro- trudes ; in the latter the rectum or the pouch of Douglas which may contain some small intestine. Partial prolapse of either wall is a frequent accompaniment of extensive ruptures of the perineum. These affections generally fall under the care of the Obstetrician, but at times the Surgeon may be called upon to perform a plastic operation for their cure. This consists in removing a por- tion of mucous membrane from the upper or lower wall of the vagina as the case may be, bringing the raw sur- faces together with sutures, and keeping the bladder empty with a catheter till firm union has taken place. diseases of the oyaeies and fallopian tubes. Ovarian tumours.—Ovarian tumours may grow either from the ovary itself, or from the broad ligament, j and may be either solid or cystic. Amongst the solid tumours, which are rare, carcinoma and sarcoma are the most common. Amongst the cystic the so-called multi- I locular cysts are most frequently met with; but other i forms, as the unilocular, the dermoid, and the parovarian cysts, may also occur. For a description of these tumours I and of their pathology, which, at the best, is but im- 1 !