DISEASES OF THE EAE. 507 mater lias been found, and its removal has been followed by complete recovery. In other cases where a tumour, &c., of the brain which did not permit of removal has been discovered, the relief of pressure has freed the patient from the excessive pain or threatened blindness. Hydrocephalus, microcephaly.—Hydrocephalus es- pecially (a) when accompanied by fits (h) when progres- sive atrophy of the optic nerve threatens, or (c) when dementia or coma supervenes, may be treated by tapping the ventricles at intervals and applying slight pressure to the skull, or if this fails by continuous drainage of the ventricles. Microcephaly combined with idiocy due to too early synostosis of the cranial sutures, especially the sagittal and coronal, may be benefited by craniectomy, i.e., the removal of a strip of bone on either side of the middle line of the skull. The aim of the operation is to allow of the brain, the development of which has been prevented by the early synostosis, to expand. In some of the cases reported the mind of the child had con- tinued to develop since the operation. Craniectomy.— Apply a half-inch trephine over the parietal bone well external to the longitudinal sinus, gently separate the dura mater and cut away with Hofbnan's or Keen's for- ceps a narrow strip of b|one some four or five inches long parallel to the sagittal suture, taking care during the operation to make as little pressure as possible on the brain. The strictest antiseptic precautions in all operations on the brain should of course be taken. Bee Trephining, p. 377. DISEASES OF THE EAR. By A. E. CuMBERBATOH, F.E.C.S., Aural Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Physical examination of the ear.—In making an examination of a patient, let him be seated between the Surgeon and the source of light, with the affected ear towards the examiner. Throw the light on the ear with the mirror and notice any abnormal condition of the auricle or the external meatus. Next grasp the auricle between the middle and index fingers, the speculum (Fig. 180), between the index finger and thumb, and pulUng the auricle upwards and backwards, insert the