600 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. is said to prevent recurrence, but I liaye not found it of much service. 2. Fibrous polypi actually arising from tlie interior of the nasal cavities are very rare. Those commonly met with usually spring from the basilar process of the occipital bone or body of the sphenoid, that is, from the roof of the naso-pharynx, and then ought properly to be called naso-pJiaryngeal, as it is only after they have attained some size that they encroach upon the nasal cavities. They consist of fibrous tissue not infrequently mixed with spindle cells, and often contain large thin- walled blood-vessels, which give them an almost cavern- ous structure. The mucous membrane covering them is also very vascular. They may be sessile or pedunculated. As they increase in size, they invade and displace the sur- rounding bones, making their way into the nasal cavities and into the pharynx, and projecting below the palate and even into the interior of the skull. They are usually met with in young adult life. The symptoms are ob- struction of one or both nostrils, a mucous and often foul-smelling discharge, repeated attacks of haemorrhage, deafness, obstruction to breathing and sometimes to swallowing, and in the later periods of the growth the characteristic deformity of the facial bones known as frog-face. They may be seen on looking into the nostril from the front, or by the rhinoscopic mirror from the back, or may be felt by the finger behind the soft palate. If not removed, they may end fatally from haemorrhage, although they have apparently a tendency to undergo atrophy as the patient gets older. Treatment.—When of moderate size they are best removed by the galvano- cautery, the wire being passed through the nostril and directed over the base of the grov/th by the finger behind the palate. The pedicle should be then completely destroyed by the post-nasal electrode. When too large for this, an attempt may be made to remove them by electrolysis; this failing, or not being considered ad- visable, they must be exposed by a preliminary operation. If chiefly confined to the naso-pharynx, the soft palate should be split, and part of the hard palate if more room is required, cut away [Nelaton^s operation). When en- croaching chiefly on the nose, a good exposure may be obtained by dividing the lip in the middle line, and turning it to one side with the ala of the nose ; or if more room is required, the superior maxilla must be removed.