444 INJURIES OF REGIONS. sequently used with great caution for several montlis to preyent re-dislocation. Occasional ill-effects following a dislocation of the shoulder, —1. Inflammation or suppuration of the joint and anky- losis ; 2. Paralysis of the deltoid or other muscles; 3. Axillary abscess; 4. Non-union of the rent in the capsule and a consequent tendency to re-dislocation on very slight violence. How long after a dislocation of the shoulder has occurred does it admit of reduction ? Sir Astley Cooper fixed the limit at three months, but cases are reported in which it is said to have been accomplished two years after the accident. It should be remembered, however, that as in unreduced dislocations a new cavity is gradually formed for the head of the bone whilst the old cavity is filled up, reduction sooner or later becomes a physical impossibility. Still, where the arm is very stiff, although reduction may not be accomplished, the range of motion in the false joint may be considerably improved by the attempt. On the other hand, where the motion is fairly free, the injury inflicted in an attempt at reduction may counter- balance any advantage gained. Pdshs that may attend reduction of long-standing cases.— 1. Eupture of the axillary artery or vein; 2. Injury of the brachial plexus of nerves; 3. Fracture of the neck of the humerus; 4. Fracture of the ribs ; 5. Tearing open of the axilla; and 6. Evulsion of the arm. 4. Reduction hy open incision.—This method has been recently employed for long-standing cases where cautious attempts at reduction by manipulation and extension have failed. The advantages claimed for it are :—1. That the reduction can be accompKshed without subjecting the patient to the dangers mentioned above, and 2. That it is applicable at periods later than those at which reduction by manipulation or by extension can be accomplished without undue risk. An incision is made down to the head of the bone between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, and the subscapularis muscle detached from its insertion into the lesser tuberosity. If the bone cannot now be manipulated into position the attachments of the external rotators (the supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor) are in like manner detached from the greater tuberosity. The bone will now return into its socket unless the time that has elapsed has been sufficient for the head to have been partly absorbed and the glenoid