571 TUMOURS OF THE TOTs^GUE. from the breaking down of the glands in the neck, and the patient dies, worn out by pain and irritation, or exhausted by haemorrhage; but like squamous carcinoma in other parts it seldom becomes disseminated in distant organs. Treatment.—Early and free extirpation ought in every instance to be undertaken, but even then a recurrence in the glands of the neck is only too frequent. When the disease has attained some magnitude, the propriety of removal becomes a question, and opinions differ under what circumstances it ought to be attempted. Its removal is contra-indicated:—1, when it has extended so far backwards that the finger cannot reach healthy tissue beyond it; 2, when it is firmly and extensively adherent to the jaw; 3, when the tongue is firmly bound down to the floor of the mouth; 4, when the glands not only below the jaw, but deep in the neck, are much impli- cated; and 0, when the patient is too weak or enfeebled by age, or emaciated from the disease itself, or from disease of other organs, to stand an operation. Moderate enlargement of the glands, slight adhesion to the jaw, and some infiltration of the floor of the mouth, do not, in my opin;ion, forbid an operation (especially if the patient is suffering from much pain, and is otherwise in good health), provided the whole of the disease with the en- larged glands can be got away. Where the disease is regarded as beyond the reach of extirpation, the pain and salivation may often be relieved by removing, not only decayed, but sound teeth that may be irritating the growth, or by stretching or dividing the gustatory nerve. This, which however is sometimes impracticable on account of the extension of the growth, may be done by making a small incision transversely from the last molar tooth through the mucous membrane to the side of the tongue, then passing an aneurysm needle into the wound, and hooking up the nerve, which is here quite superflcial. Cocaine, or morphia and glycerine, may be painted on the part, whilst the patient's remaining span of life may be rendered bearable by increasing doses of opium or' morphia. TuMOUES OE THE TOIS'GUE.—Pajpillomatous or ivarty growths are not uncommon, and may be distinguished from epithelioma, into which they are liable to degenerate as age advances, by the absence of induration about their base. They should be freely removed by the knife or scissors. Vascular timours or ncevi and Jymphangioniata