INJUHIES OP SPECIAL TISSUES. 190 socket, and tlieii apply splints to the fracture. In com- pound fracture this complication is a much more serious one, especially when it occurs in the lower extremity, and involves one of the larger joints. In the knee, ankle, and wrist, amputation, and in the elbow and shoulder, excision, is usually indicated. In the smaller joints the dislocation may be reduced, and the case treated as a wounded joint complicated by fracture. Fracture implicating a joint. —A simple fracture extend- ing into a joint is not an uncommon accident; indeed the elbow- and knee-joints are always involved in fracture of the olecranon and patella respectively, and the shoulder and hip-joints in the intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the humerus and femur. The injured joint may become stiff or ankylosed, though usually no serious mischief ensues. Suppuration is very rare. The limb in putting up the fracture should be placed, except in the case of fracture of the olecranon, in a position in which it will be of most service should bony ankylosis ensue. Inflam- mation and stiffness of the joint from fibrous adhesions should be treated in the way described under Diseases of the Joints. A compound fracture extending into a joint, though more serious, does not necessarily call for amputation or excision, and may be treated in the way described under Wounds of Joints. But should such be required, excision in the upper extremity and amputation in the lower may be said with certain reservations to be the rule of practice. If an operation is considered unneces- sary the case should be treated as a wounded joint, and splints according to the variety of fracture applied. Fat-embolism is a rare complication of fracture, but is more frequent in the compound than in the simple variety and in bones that have undergone atrophy. It appears that in consequence of the crushing of the medulla, fat- globules gain admission into the veins, and become lodged in the capillaries of the lungs, brain, kidneys, and other organs. It is attended by dyspnoea, either cyanosis or pallor, collapse, irregular action of the heart, and at times by coma and death. Yenesection, injection of ether into the veins, and artificial respiration have been suggested in the way of treatment. Crutch-palsy is due to the pressure of a crutch on the musculo-spiral nerve. It is best avoided by well padding the crutches, or by having handles to the crutches so that part of the weight falls on the hands. An ingenious