574 DISEASES OF REGIONS. the trachea with Hahn's tampon cannula, or merely introduce an ordinary tracheotomy tube, and plug the pharynx firmly with a sponge during the operation. All such measures are however in my opinion quite unneces- sary, and only add to the danger of the operation. Should bleeding occur it can always be arrested temporarily by merely passing the finger into the pharynx and pressing the tongue against the inner surface of the jaw, and then as soon as the mouth has been sponged clear of blood the bleeding vessel can be seized and tied. Or Lockwood's clamp for compressing the lingual artery may be used during the operation if the Surgeon is at all nervous of bleeding, the only objection to it being that it is apt to get a little in the operator's way. When Hahn's cannula is used it is often kept in fo.r several days after the operation for the purpose of excluding septic discharges from the air-passages and so preventing septic pneumonia. The advantages claimed for the scissors versus the ecraseur are that a cleaner cut surface is left and consequently that the Surgeon can be more certain of having removed the whole of the disease, that less sloughing occurs, and that the operation is more quickly performed. Where, how- ever, the tongue is adherent to the floor of the mouth and hence cannot be drawn forward, or the mouth cannot be opened sufficiently wide, or the light is bad, or a reliable assistant is not at hand, removal with the scissors is attended with considerable difficulty, and under these circumstances removal with the ecraseur will be found safer. As regards the amount of sloughing, I am not convinced that more attends the use of the ecraseur than the scissors, and if care is taken to pass the cord of the ecraseur well beyond the disease, as complete a removal can be ensured. 4. Excision with the galvano-cautery is strongly recom- mended by some Surgeons, but is open to the serious objection that it is liable to be followed by secondary haemorrhage on the separation of the sloughs. Whatever operation is undertaken, it will be facilitated when the disease is far back by splitting the cheek from the angle of the mouth to the masseter muscle; whilst, if the disease has invaded the bone, the lower lip may be vertically divided in the middle line, the incision con- tinued on each side for a short distance along the lower border of the ramus of the jaw, the soft parts dissected up, and the infiltrated bone removed by the saw or bone-