681 IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. truss may be provided for the night, and one covered with india-rubber or made of vulcanite for the bath. The radical treatment consists in reducing the hernia, and in ' some way obliterating the sac and closing the ring. In young children the wearing of a truss may do this, but in older children, and in adults, the ring is then usually too large and otherwise altered for the hernia to be thus cured, and some further procedure, if thought advisable, must be undertaken. Of the various methods that have been proposed, those of Wood, Spanton, Warren, and Banks, are, perhaps, the most iu vogue at the present time. Briefly, 1, Wood's consists in freeing the sac from its scrotal connections, invaginating it into the inguinal canal, and then subcutaneously sewing the canal, ring, and sac together. In Spanton's, the sac is also invagina- ted, but the consolidation of the parts is effected by twisting them together by an instrument shaped some- thing like a cork-screw which is introduced subcutane- ously, and left in situ for a week or ten days, or until sufficient inflammation has been set up to glue the parts together. 3. Warren and Heaton, amongst others in America, have revived the method of obliterating the sac by injections. 4. Banks'method consists in cutting away the sac after ligature of its neck, and then sewing up the ring. Ligature and excision of the sac is applicable to femoral and umbilical as well as to inguinal hernise. In femoral hernia, however, the ring is too unyielding to admit of its being closed by suture. 2. An IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA is One that cannot be returned into the abdomen. The causes of the irreducibility, which are many, may be conveniently classified according as the impediment to the return of the contents of the sac exists:—1. Outside the sac, from inflammatory thickening and contraction of the tissues forming the ring or other aperture through which the hernia has escaped. 2. In the sac ivalls, from inflam- matory thickening and contraction, and from elongation of the neck of the sac. 3. Liside the sac, from (a), the great i bulk of the intestine or omentum due to increased growth. subsequent to their descent; (6), constriction of the omen- tum at the situation of the ring and expansion of the lower part; (c), adhesion of the intestine or omentum to the sac, or to one another; {d), bands of adhesions stretch- ing across the sac and so confining a loop of intestine or knuckle of omentum ; (e), a collection of fluid in the sac;