379 INJURIES TO THE FACE. INJURIES OF THE FACE. OoOTUSlONS of the face are very common. Amongst them may be mentioned "black-eye," wbicb is attended with, extravasation of blood in the loose cellular tissue of the eyelids. The swelling is often very great, the eye being completely closed, but it usually subsides in a few days. Suppuration occasionally occurs, a small incision then becoming necessary. Wounds of the face, owing to the great vascularity of the parts, readily and rapidly heal. The edges of the wound should be approximated as accurately as possible, especially when near the eyelid, where there is danger of contraction, and united with horse-hair sutures. If quite superficial the wound may then be sealed with collodion; but if deep the surfaces should be supported by hare-lip pins or wire sutures, which, however, to prevent scarring, should be removed at the end of twenty-four to thirty-six hours. Wounds attended by loss of substance may sub- sequently require a plastic operation. Foreign" bodies in the nose.—Peas, beads, pebbles, and the like are sometimes pushed up the nose by children, where they sooner or later give rise to irritation and a muco-purulent and foetid discharge. Indeed the presence of such a discharge from one nostril in a child should always lead the Surgeon to make a careful search, if necessary under an ansesthetic, for a foreign body. If allowed to remain, foreign bodies may cause ulceration, or even bone-disease. They can generally be removed by forceps, curettes, or the nasal douche, but before these are used the patient should close the opposite nostril and forcibly expire, since the body may often be expelled in this simple way. At times they may have to be pushed back into the pharynx. Milder means failing, Eouge's operation (see Diseases of Nose) may become necessary. It should not be forgotten that foreign bodies occasionally enter the nose from behind during vomiting. Foreign bodies in the ear should be removed by syringing with tepid water, and no attempt made to extract them with instruments unless their nature is such that the warmth and moisture of the part may cause them to swell, as is the case with peas. Under these circumstances, some of the various aural curettes, snares, &c., devised for the purpose may be used, but with great