502 DISEASES OF REGIONS. present. Congenital and dermoid cysts are described at p. 98. N^Vi are also common on the scalp. When large and situated over the anterior fontanelle they should be dealt with cautiously, lest the membranes of the brain be injured and meningitis result. Cahies and neckosis of the bones of the cranium are not uncommon. They are generally the result of syphi- litic periostitis or injury, or very rarely of tubercle or fevers. The external table is the most often affected, but whether the external or the internal table is involved, the disease seldom extends beyond the diploe, as the two tables have a distinct blood-supply. At times, how- ever, complete perforation of the skull occurs. Caries and necrosis in this situation are apt to be followed by septic or infective inflammation of the diploe and its con- sequences; by suppuration between the bone and dura mater; by meningitis and abscess of the brain; or by thickening of the dura mater, resulting in persistent headache or even epilepsy. When the skull is completely perforated, the hole is not filled up by bone; and when necrosis occurs the sequestrum is not invaginated. Treat- ment,—^ejond keeping the parts aseptic, providing free exit for the discharges, and removing loose sequestra, little, as a rule, is required. Should pus collect between the bone and dura mater, it must be let out by the tre- phine ; and a portion of necrosed inner table may also require the trephine for its removal. Appropriate con- stitutional remedies for syphilis or tubercle will of course also be necessary. Exostoses of the skull are described under Diseases of Bone, p. 243. Meningocele and encephalocele are rare con- genital tumours, formed by a protrusion of the mem- branes of the brain through an unossified part of the skull. They are believed to be dependent upon hydro- cephalus, the excess of fluid in the sub-arachnoid space or in the ventricles of the brain leading respectively to a protrusion of the membranes alone (meningocele), or of the brain also [encephalocele). In the latter instance, the dilated ventricle may extend into the protruding portion of brain, a condition further distinguished as hydren- cephalocele. The protrusion is most common in the occipital region, just behind the foramen magnum, between the four centres from which this part of the occipital bone is