TREATMENT OF IN"TESTINAL OBSTRUCTIOIS'. 663 3. In volvulus of the sigmoid flexure, insufflation witli air or hydrogen or a large enema will at times succeed in untwisting the intestine. If these means fail no time should be lost in opening the abdomen (see Laparotomy). If there is great distension, Treves advises that the inflated coil should be punctured through the abdominal parietes. 4. In intussusception, when acute, copious injections of warm water to empty the lower bowel, followed by in- sufflation of air or hydrogen with the patient inverted and thoroughly relaxed under chloroform, will often succeed in the early stages and should be given a fair trial. In the meantime opium should be given in doses suitable to the age of the patient, food withheld, and the stomach emptied by an emetic or irrigated with warm water. These means failing, laparotomy must be performed (see Laparotomy), If the signs of strangulation are well marked, too much time should not be lost in trying injections and insufflation, lest the bowel become so damaged or the intussusceptum so adherent to the intussuscipiens as to render the prospect of success hopeless. Indeed, I have come to the conclusion that unless laparotomy for intussusception in an infant is undertaken within twenty-four to thirty-six hours from the onset of the symptoms, reduction will be found next to impossible without so injuring the intestine as to render a fatal result almost inevitable. In chronic cases, although there is less need for early operative interference than in acute, as the bowel may remain incarcerated for some time before becoming strangulated, it should not be delayed too long, lest the intussuscepted portion become adherent to the sheath. Should it appear probable that this has already happened, two courses are open: either to open the abdomen, or to keep the patient under the influence of opium in the hope that the intussusceptum may slough off and be passed per anum. In infants intussusception, unless relieved by injections, inflations, &c., or by early operative means, may be said to be. almost invariably fatal. 5. For stricture of the large intestine, left inguinal or left lumbar colotomy should be performed when the obstruction is in the rectum or lower part of the sigmoid flexure, and right colotomy when in the transverse or de- scending colon. Should the strictured portion be readily reached in performing the operation, it may, if the disease is localized, be cut out {colectomy) and the bowel secured