62 OENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. are then generally symmetrical, thus differing from the gummatous affections of the testicle in the tertiary stage. The general health usually suffers, the hair becomes thin [syphilitic alopecia), and the patient anaemic. At times severe cachexia ensues, attended by much wasting and prostration. Tertiary syphilis.—The symptoms of the tertiary stage commonly occur after a period of apparent cure, sometimes within a few months after the cessation of the secondary symptoms, at other times not till after many years. Occasionally, however, they may be manifested within a few months of the primary sore, i.e., during the period usually assigned to the secondary stage. Moreover, between the termination of the secondary and the onset of the tertiary, certain skin eruptions, enlargements of the testicle, choroiditis, inflammations and ulcerations of the tongue, and psoriasis of the palms may occur, and have been spoken of as " reminders." They are by some re- garded as constituting an intermediary stage. The tertiary affections proper are of a more serious nature than the secondary, and show no tendency to spontaneous cure. They depend upon chronic inflammations in various tissues and organs, leading to the formation of granula- tion-tissue (gummata). The gummata may undergo caseation and break down, producing when situated in the subcutaneous and submucous tissue characteristic ulcers ; or they may continue for indefinite periods, or be slowly absorbed under appropriate treatment, leaving fibroid thickenings and scarrings in the capsules and substance of the affected organs. These gummata vary in size from a pea to a walnut, and are intimately blended with the surrounding tissues. They consist, roughly, of three zones ; in the central, the cells are breaking down and undergoing fatty change; in the next zone the cells are contained in a fibrillated matrix; in the outer zone numerous vessels ramify among the cells. The breaking down of the central portion is attributed to changes in the vessels causing a diminution of their calibre or com- plete thrombosis, whereby the blood-supply of the central zone is cut ofC and degeneration consequently ensues. Amongst the most common of the tertiary lesions may be mentioned—1, chronic gummatous inflammation of the periosteum and bones, leading to the formation of nodes, caries, or necrosis, and giving rise, as when attacking the bones of the nose, to horrible deformity; 2, gummatous