287 DISEASES OE ARTERIES. elastic tissue, and is more often met with in the arteries of the lower than in those of the upper limb. Causes.—Mechanical strain or vascular tension is looked upon as the most frequent exciting cause. Thus it is attributed to—1, occupations necessitating severe and prolonged exertion; 2, the abuse of alcohol, which pro- duces an increased and forcible action of the heart; 3, chronic Bright's disease, in which the blood-pressure, in consequence of capillary fibrosis or spasm of the arterioles, is increased; 4, plethora, in which the arterial tension is also raised; 5, syphilis, which is attended by fibroid change in the small vessels and consequent increased vascular tension, and 6, gout, in that it may produce Bright's disease. In addition, however, to the increased vascular tension, to which the above-mentioned conditions may give rise, gout, syphilis, and alcohol may also lead to primary degenerative changes in the coats of the arteries in common with the degenerations they induce in the tissues generally throughout the body, and hence, together with advancing age, and the male sex, men being more exposed to mechanical strains than women, may be looked upon 8iB predisposing as well as exciting causes. Pathology.—Arteritis begins as a small-round-cell in- filtration of the deeper layers of the intima—those next the muscular coat. This gives rise to characteristic greyish-white, slightly-elevated, tough, semi-gelatinous patches on the inner surface of the vessel. The patches, which frequently begin around the entrance of small lateral branches, increase by their edges, and by coalesc- ing with other patches produce extensive tracts of the disease. The inflammatory infiltration in consequence of the absence of new vessels, may undergo—1, fatty, 2, calca- reous, or, 3, fibroid degeneration. 1. The patches formerly grey become yellowish-white, breaking down into a cheesy mass or completely liquefying into a puriform fluid con- sisting of fatty debris, cholesterine-crystals, and minute oil-drops.^ The layers of the intima next the blood are at first continued unbroken over the fatty patch, which is then called an atheromatous abscess. These layers, how- ever, may subsequently give way, leaving the softened and fatty mass in contact with the blood (the atheromatous ulcer). Portions of the fatty material may now be washed away by the blood-stream and become lodged in some of the smaller arteries and capillaries, where they seldom, however, do any harm, as the emboli are non-infective.