ADENO - SARCOMATA. 837 Signs.—•tThey are most often met with in women between the ages of thirty and thirty-five who have borne children, as small ovoid, firm but elastic, distinctly circumscribed ' and moveable growths in the breast, with a nodular or slightly bossed surface. They are of very slow growth, do not cause retraction of the nipple or enlargement of the axillary glands, and do not return if completely re- moved. Enucleation is the treatment. Adeno-FIBROMATA are of frequent occurrence. They consist of fibrous and adenomatous tissue, and are styled fibromata by those pathologists who regard the gland- tissue as merely the remains of the normal breast-tissue surrounded by the new growth. They occur as firm, circumscribed, slow-growing and distinctly encapsuled tumours in the substance of the breast, and on section appear lobulated and of a pinkish-white colour, and do not yield a juice on scraping. Signs,—They usually occur in the breast of young and healthy women as freely moveable, firm, ovoid, slightly nodular, generally painless growths, and are often indis- tinguishable without puncture from a tense cyst. From carcinoma and sarcoma they may be diagnosed by the age of the patient, their slow growth, well-defined outline, non-retraction of the nipple, non-adherence of the skin, and the absence of glandular enlargement. From pure adenoma, adeno-sarcoma, and adeno-myxoma, it may be impossible to distinguish them before removal. Enuclea- tion is the only effective treatment. I Adeno-SARCOMATA differ from the adeno-fibromata in that in place of an increase of fibrous tissue around the acini and ducts vai?k)us kinds of sarcomatous elements are found mixed with more or less mature fibrous or myxo- matous tissue; they often contain cysts. Hence the terms adeno-fibro-sarcoma, adeao-myxo-sarcoma, adeno-cysto- sarcoma, fibro-cysto-sarcoma, &c., which have been applied to them. They occur as circumscribed growths in the breast, resembling the adeno-fibromata, from which it is often impossible to distinguish them without a micro- scopic examination. The signs vary according to the amount of sarcoma- elements the growth contains. Thus, when this is small they approach in their clinical character and behaviour the adeno-fibromata. On the other hand, when sarcoma- elements abound, they may grow rapidly, and behave like the pure sarcomata. Frequently they grow slowly