640 DISEASES OE REGIONS. long as possible. At first she will be only able to do this for a few minutes at a time; but by frequently assuming the posture the muscles thus brought into play are gradually strengthened till at last the improved posture is maintained constantly and without effort. For further im- proving the tone of these muscles Professor Busch and Mr. Eoth recommend some such exercises as the following:— The patient's body held in the improved posture is brought over the end of a couch or table, and whilst she is prevented from falling by an assistant holding her legs, she alter- nately flexes and extends her body at the hips, the sur- geon resisting her efforts. I have also found the use of the sloping seat, as recommended by M. Bouvier and Mr. Barwell, of considerable service in counteracting the curves. A similar effect may be obtained by wearing a thick sole on one boot, and by sitting on the off-side of the horse when riding. After the exercises, or twice or thrice during the day, the patient should lie on her back for half an hour to an hour, and whilst sitting her back should be supported by a reclining chair. Of late I have had very considerable success in removing rigidity in cases where there is slight osseous deformity by applying a weight to the convexity of the curve, the patient standing with her legs straight and body horizontal and supported in this position by her elbows on a chair. Kyphosis is a general curving of the spine with its convexity backwards, or an exaggerated condition of the normal dorsal curve. It depends upon an unequal com- pression of the intervertebral cartilages and to a less extent of the vertebral bodies which thus become wedge- shaped with their bases looking posteriorly. It is gene- rally the result of muscular debility, rickets, slouching habits, or occupations necessitating stooping. The point of chief interest is to distinguish it from the serious angular curvature induced by caries. In children, and in adults, this is generally easy; but in rickety infants, in whom the ordmary tests for caries (see p. 644) cannot be applied, it is often very difficult. In such a case, the in- fant should be laid across the nurse's knees and gently ex- tended, when the rickety curve will disappear, but the angular will remain. The back, moreover, in caries, is rigid, and the child is uneasy in this position and tries to resist the extension by muscular effort, and draws up his legs. In rickets the back is flexible and there are other signs of rickets. Treatment.—In the infant, recumbency ;