30 QEIS'ERAL PATHOLOGY OF SUBGICAL DISEASES. when combined with the injection of iodoform emulsion, will in some cases suffice, the abscess drying up, and in this way becoming cured. When the abscess is lined with a thick layer of caseous material, healing will ^be promoted by rubbing the walls with a strong solution of chloride of zinc (grs. xl. to Jj.)' injecting iodoform emulsion (iodoform, 10 parts ; glycerine, 70 parts; water, 20 parts), or by scraping away the unhealthy granulations with a Yolkmann's spoon. Diffuse suppuration may occur either, 1, in the sub- stance of the tissues or organs; or 2, on the surface of the skin or a mucous or serous membrane. As examples of the former may be cited cellular and cellule-cutaneous erysipelas, in which, as the result of a spreading infective inflammation, extensive suppuration occurs through large tracts of the subcutaneous tissue; as examples of the latter, gonorrhoea, bronchitis, and some forms of peri- tonitis. The pathological process in both is practically similar, only that in one the inflammatory products (pus) are disused through the tissues, and in the other, over the free surface. Suppuration on the free surface of the skin or mucous membrane when the deeper layers of these structures are involved, is, however, spoken of generally as ulceration; and when the epithelial layers only are affected, as intertrigo in the case of the skin, and as purulent catarrh in the case of a mucous mem,- brane. Constitutional effects of long-continuefd suppuration. Hectic fever and lardaceous disease,—Hectic FEVEE, is a common accompaniment of prolonged suppuration from whatever cause when the wound cannot be kept aseptic and efficiently drained. It has been ascribed to the drain on the system owing to the formation of large quantities of pus; but this is certainly not the only cause, as a chronic abscess may attain a very large size, and exist for years unattended by hectic as long as it remains un- opened ; nor after opening does hectic occur if the pus can be prevented from undergoing fermentative or putrefac- tive changes, and the cavity can be well drained. It would therefore rather appear to be due to a chronic blood-poisoning, consequent upon the absorption of the products of fermentation or putrefaction in small quan- tities at a time. Symptoms.—Hectic fever is characterized by profuse sweating, rapid wasting, nocturnal rises of temperature with morning remissions, and generally by