233 NECROSIS. granulations (Fig. oo), and though loose, is thus pre- vented from being cast off. It is then said to be invaginated, and is called a. sequestrum. At certain spots where the periosteum and soft tissues have been per- forated by the discharges from the inflamed bone making their way to the surface, ossification does not occur, and these apertures thus left in the casing of new bone are called cloacce (Figs. 54, 55, 56, d). After the removal of the sequestrum the cavity (Fig. 56, /) fills with granula- tions, though more slowly than after the removal of an exfoliation. Symptoms.—These vary according to the cause, stage and situation of the necrosis. When of inflammatory origin the symptoms at first will be those, already de- scribed, of periostitis, osteo-myelitis or osteitis, according as one or other of these has produced it. "When suppura- tion has occurred and an incision has been made to the dead bone, or ihe discharges have made their way to the surface, or the wound, in the case of an injury, leading to the dead bone has remained open, a sinus or sinuses will exist. These generally discharge a thick foul- smelling pus, and are accompanied by much thickening of the bone, and redness and brawniness in some instances of the surrounding skin. On passing a probe the dead bone will probably be felt. In traumatic cases there will further be the history of the injury. Having discovered dead bone the next point to ascertain is if it be loose. This may be done by observing if it can be moved by the probe, or, if two sinuses exist, by passing a probe down each and pressing alternately first in one, then in the other. If the sequestrum is loose, a see-saw movement ^ may thus be given to it. In superficial situations such as the cranium, or where a bone protrudes or is exposed, as in a stump or compound fracture, the dead bone will at once be known by the characters already given (page 231). The chief distinctive signs between necrosis and caries are: • —In necrosis the dead bone is generally hard and smooth, in caries soft, rough, and crumbling; in necrosis the granulations round the sinus are healthy and the skin is generally normal, in caries there may be no granulations, or if present they may be oedematous, and the skin around is undermined or inflamed; in necrosis the discharge is thick and yellow, in caries thin and watery; in necrosis there may be great thickening of the bone, in caries there is usually but little. It must not be forgotten, however,