371 LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. cerebral irritation, point to such an injury. The symptoms of cerebral irritation may be described as follows:—The patient lies in a torpid or semi-conscious condition, coiled up on one side, with his limbs in a general state of flexion. If spoken to he evinces great irritability of temper, answering momentarily and sharply, perhaps shaking himself, and then relapses into his torpid state. His pupils are contracted, his eyes closed, but his pulse tem- perature, and respirations are normal. Is there any way of localizing the seat of the laceration tvhere no external injury exists ? * * If a patient receive a blow upon the head, and it is found that localized paralysis is present, we conclude that there exists a laceration of some severity in the cortical centre corresponding to the muscles impli- cated. If almost immediately after the injury there is a distinct spasm affecting a localized group of muscles—a monospasm—we conclude that haemorrhage is going on from the lacerated brain substance, or breaking down the tissue of the centre corresponding to the affected muscles. If the monospasm extends, first affecting one side of the body, and finally both sides, so that the attacks assume the form of true epileptic fits, it is probable the extrava- sated blood is extending over the surface of the brain and irritating more or less widely the whole motor area" (Erichsen). Should there be aphasia, a lesion of the posterior extremity of the third left frontal convolution (Broca's convolution) is indicated (Fig. 100, b). Should there be facial spasm or paralysis, a lesion of the lower third of the ascending frontal and the contiguous part of the posterior end of the second frontal convolution is pro- bably present (Fig. 100, F^, P^). Should there be paralysis of the arm—a brachial monoplegia—the middle portion of the ascending frontal and the contiguous part of the ascending parietal on the other side of the fissure of Eolando are probably affected (Fig. 100 R^ and p^). Should there be paralysis of the lower limb, the lesion probably involves the upper end of the ascending parietal and the superior parietal lobule lying behind it, as far as the margin of the longitudinal fissure (Fig. 100, and P^). Briefly, therefore, a cortical lesion may be distinguished from a central, as follows:—In the cortical lesion the paralysis, although it may occur immediately after the accident, often does not appear for some time. It is incomplete and localized, and probably affects only one limb or a single group of muscles. In the central lesion, B B 2