POISONED WOUXDS. 115 diffuse cellulitis, tetanus, and, later, scarring. A com- bination of laceration and contusion is frequently present. Healing is generally accomplished by the second inten- tion. The Treatment is similar to that of lacerated wounds. Any portions of skin which have not lost their vitality should be preserved, especially if the wound involves the scalp or face. Punctured wounds are those in which the depth is much greater than the breadth. They are usually produced by sharp-pointed instruments, bayonet- or sword-thrusts, and stabs. The chief dangers are haemorrhage, penetration of important cavities, as the thorax, abdomen, or a joint, injury of a large blood-vessel or nerve, and subsequently deep suppuration in consequence of the retention of the discharges in the deep portion of the wound. Punctured wounds usually unite by the second intention, owing to the difficulty of keeping the deeper parts of the wound in contact and of preventing the collecting of serum and later of pus. Treatment.—If deep, a drainage-tube should be passed to the bottom of the wound, and gradually shortened as the wound heals. If there is severe arterial haemorrhage which cannot be controlled by carefully applied pressure, the wound must be converted into an incised one, and the bleeding vessel treated in the way described under wounds of arteries, veins, etc. For the special treatment required where a joint or visceral cavity has been penetrated, see Injuries of Uegions. Poisoned wounds. Dissection and post-mortem ivounds, —Dissection wounds are of frequent occurrence, but seldom give rise to any serious trouble, unless the body from which the poison is received is fresh, when the risks are similar to those attending wounds received in making post-mortem examinations. Post-mortem wounds ap- pear to owe their virulence to inoculation with infective micro-organisms which are capable of multiplying in the tissues or in the blood, and so setting up true infective inflammation and blood-poisoning. These micro-organ- isms are replaced, as decomposition of the corpse sets in, by the bacteria of putrefaction. Hence the longer the body has been kept the less dangerous the wound, as these bacteria are merely capable of inducing a local inflammation, and not a true infective process. The most dangerous wounds are those received whilst ex- amining bodies in which death has recently resulted from septicaemia, pyaemia, diffuse or puerperal peritonitis, I 2