DISEASES OF REGIONS. 704 The diagnosis has chiefly to be made from enlarged glands, varix of the saphenous vein, inguinal hernia, and psoas abscess. 1. In enlarged glands there is no impulse on cough; they can be raised from the deeper tissues, and there will probably be some evident cause, as a sore on the heel, &c., to account for them. A small piece of irreducible omentum, however, may almost exactly re- semble an enlarged gland in the femoral canal; and it may be impossible to make a diagnosis without exploring the ring, an operation which should always be under- taken if symptoms of strangulation of the intestine are present. At times, there may be an enlarged gland over a hernia. 2. In varix of the saphenous vein the vein is generally also varicose lower down the limb, and the impulse on coughing has a peculiar, thrill-like character, and extends also some distance down the vein. When the swelling is reduced by placing the patient on her back, and the ring is closed by the finger, the vein refills when she rises, whereas the hernia remains reduced as long as the finger is kept in position. 3. In inguinal hernia the neck of the sac is above Poupart's ligament, and inside or over the spine of the pubes; in femoral hernia the neck is below Poupart's ligament and outside the spine of the pubes. In inguinal, the hernia goes back in a direction upwards, outwards and backwards ; in femoral, downwards, backwards and upwards. In inguinal, the hernia occupies the inguinal canal, and may descend into the scrotum or labium; in femoral, the inguinal canal is felt free on passing the finger into it. 4. In psoas abscess the swelling is generally at first ex- ternal to the femoral vessels. There is usually fulness in the iliac fossa, and fluctuation can be detected above and below Poupart's ligament. Some cause for the abscess, such as caries of the spine, is generally evident. Treatmeiit.—All that need be mentioned in addition to what has already been said of the treatment of hernia in general is—1. That the femoral truss (Fig. 259) should have the pad more vertically placed, and the button for the strap should be on the end of the spring and not on the back of the pad, as if placed in the latter situation it causes the pad to rise up and so allows the hernia to escape beneath it. 2. That there is less chance of a radical cure than in inguinal hernia, as the ring on account of its unyielding nature cannot be drawn together by suture. 3. That in applying the taxis the leg should be flexed.