DISEASES OF REGIONS. 770 6, pyelitis and nepliritis (very rare); and in tTie female : 7, metritis; 8, salpingitis; 9, pelvic peritonitis and cellu- litis. C. The extension of the inflammation to the lym- johatics of the urethra—1, lymphangitis ; 2, bubo ; and 3, blood-poisoning. D. The local inoculation of distant mucous membranes tuith the discharge—1, gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis; 2, nasal catarrh; and 3, catarrhal inflammation of the rectum. E. The absorption by the blood-vessels of the septic proditcts—1, gonorrhoeal rheuma- tism ; 2, gonorrhoeal sclerotitis; and, 3, septicaemia and pyaemia. Of these complications, some are exceedingly rare, whilst others, as balanitis^ chordee, phimosis, para- phimosis, epididymitis, bubo, and stricture are common. Most of these complications are described under diseases of the various organs in other parts of the book. Here a short account of the following only will be given. Balanitis, or inflammation of the glans penis, often occurs in gonorrhoea. The glans is red and swollen, of a bright red colour, and often excoriated. Cleanliness and astringent lotions are all that is necessary. Chordee or painful erection of the penis, is very common in gonorrhoea. The erected penis has often a downward curve, which is generally believed to depend on the inflammatory products in and around the urethra preventing the corpus spongiosum from becoming dis- tended equally with the corpora cavernosa. Some, how- ever, attribute the chordee to spasm of the urethral, muscles. It occurs chiefly at night-time when the patient, is warm in bed, and greatly disturbs his rest. The treat- ment consists in the administration of such sedatives as potassium bromide or of camphor and opiam in the form of a pill or suppository, and the local application of cold, or a hot bath before going to bed. CowPERiTis, or inflammation of Cowper's glands, some- times occurs, and then usually late in the second stage of gonorrhoea. It may be known by the formation of a painful swelling on one or both sides of the middle line of the perineum. The swelling, at first hard, subsequently becomes soft and fluctuating as pus forms. It may be distinguished from ordinary perineal abscess by its one- sided position. Treatment.—WsiTrnth to the perineum, and when suppuration has occurred, a free incision. Lymphangitis and bubo.—The inflamed lymphatic vessels appear as red streaks running along the dorsum of the penis to the inguinal glands, the penis itself,