86 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF STJRGICAL DISEASES. large size, and only occur in the skin and mucous mem- brane. In old people, however, warty growths are apt to degenerate into epitheliomata; and villous growths in the bladder may destroy life by the haemorrhage to which they frequently give rise. Structure,—They all agree in that they resemble hyper- trophied simple or compound papillae. Thus, they con- sist of several layers of connective tissue surrounding one or more central blood-vessels, and are covered by one or many layers of epithelium resembling that natural to the part from which they spring. The epithelium, however, never penetrates the connective tissue—a point that serves to distinguish them pathologically from epithe- lioma, which in many respects they resemble in structure. The warts and warty growths^ which form circumscribed tumours or cauliflower-like masses often of considerable size, consist of one or more enlarged papillae covered with several layers of horny epithelium, and contain as a rule only a few small blood-vessels. The condylomata and mucous tuhercles^ which occur as flattened elevations of the skin and mucous membrane respectively, also consist of enlarged papillae, but the epithelium covering them is moist and sodden, and the connective tissue, as might be expected from their rapid growth, is abundantly in- filtrated with small round cells. They are always the result of syphilis. The villous tumours^ which form delicate branching growths resembling the villi of the chorion, are also classed by some pathologists as papillo- mata, even when they grow from parts as the interior of the bladder where no papillae exist. In such situations they spring from the sub-epithelial connective tissue, and owe their papillary shape to the arrangement of the connective tissue and epithelium around the blood-vessels. The latter are often dilated and numerous, and frequently give way, leading to serious haemorrhages. The epithe- lium covering them forms a delicate layer, and may often be rubbed o:ff or washed away by the urine. Usual seats.—Papillomata in the form of warts and warty growths, are of most frequent occurrence in the skin, especially of the hands and genital organs, and in the larynx. As condylomata and mucous tubercles, they occur about the anus and genitals, and on the mucous membrane of the mouth and throat. The villous growths are met with in the bladder, rectum, and larynx. Secondary clmoiges.—Pigmentation, ulceration, and