DISEASES or THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. 541 history of convulsions, and with a deficiency of the enamel of the teeth. The opacity is situated as a shell between the nucleus and cortex, which are both clear. It is usually symmetrical. (b) Anterior polar (pyramidal) cataract is a dense white opacity at the anterior pole of the lens, usually due to perforation of the cornea in early life, and as a rule asso- ciated with corneal nebula. (c) Posterior polar cataract is situated at the posterior pole of the lens. The opacity is generally in radiating spokes, and is often associated with disease of the vitreous or choroid. Diagnosis.—When a cataract is complete it looks white, amber, or grey, and may be best seen by dilating the pupil, and examining by focal light. When incomplete and cor- tical the striae may be seen by oblique illumination if the pupil is dilated, or by throwing light into the eye by the ophthalmoscopic mirror (preferably a plane mirror), when the strise will appear as black lines. The subjective syw.ptoms in incipient cataract are failing vision, black fixed spots or lines before the eyes, ability to see better in the dark due to dilatation of the pupil, myopia, and sometimes monocular diplopia or polyopia. Treatment.—In incipient senile cataract, especially of the nuclear variety, atropine drops will often temporarily improve the sight, and may be ordered with caution. The operations for removal of the lens are of two kinds, namely (a) extraction and (h) discission; extraction is always preferable in hard cataracts, and sometimes in soft especially in adults. It is of course necessary before pro- ceeding to operation that the condition of the eye be satisfactory as far as the lids, conjunctiva and lachrymal apparatus are concerned, and that there is good perception and projection of light. In senile cataract it is usual to wait till the vision of one eye is reduced to mere percep- tion of light and the vision of the other is insufficient to allow the patient to follow his occupation. The general health of the patient must also be investigated, as senile cataract may be associated with gout, glycosuria, and arterial disease. (a) The extraction operations are numerous, but the only one described here will be the 3 millimetre flap operation, which may be performed with or without iridectomy. Operation.—The first steps are as in operation for iri- dectomy (see p. 537). After the introduction of the spring