73 TUMOUKS. type of the higher complex connective tissues, i.e., muscle, nerve, blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels, and lymphatic glands: (1) Myoma, (2) Neuroma, (3) Angioma, (4) Lymphangioma, and (5) Lymphoma, C.' Those of the type of embryonic connective tissue : (1) Round-celled sarcoma, (2) 'Spindle-celled sarcoma, (3) Myeloid sarcoma. II. Epihlastic and hypohlastic tumours, which are such as are composed of cells like epithelium. They are divided into:—A. The innocent: (1) Papilloma and (2) Adenoma; and B. The malignant: (1) Spheroidal- celled carcinoma: (a) Hard, scirrhous, or chronic carci - noma; (h) ,^Soft encephaloid, or acute carcinoma; and (c) Colloid carcinoma, (2). Squamous-celled carcinoma {epithelioma), and (3) Columnar-celled or cylindrical carcinoma, III. Tumburs in which epihlastic, hypohlastic and meso- hlastic elements are comhined, A. Teratoma, a rare form of tumour found occasionally in the ovary and testicle, containing bone, hair, teeth, &c. I. MESOBLASTIC OE COOTECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOIIES. A. Tumours of the type of fully-formed connective tissue, FiBEOMATA OE FIBEOUS TUMOUES COnsist of fibrouS tissue, which may vary in density from the firmness of a tendon or ligament to the soft consistency of the sub cutaneous tissue. They are quite innocent, grow slowly, do not return if completely removed, and are usually surrounded by a distinct capsule. Structure,—The firmer varieties (Fig. 8) consist of dense fibrous tissue intermixed with but few elastic fibres and connective-tissue corpuscles. The fibres, as a rule, are variously interlaced without definite arrangement, though in some fibromata they form concentric circles around the blood-vessels. On section they appear firm, smooth, and glistening, and of a greyish-white colour. The vessels are usually small, thin-walled, and not numerous, though certain of the fibromata [naso-pharyngeal polypi) are very vascular, and are permeated by large cavernous blood- spaces. The softer varieties, formerly called fibro-cellular tumours, consist of loose succulent fibrous tissue, and often contain large and numerous blood-vessels. On section they appear yellowish, glistening, semi-trans-