GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF IJs^JURIES. 120 is no contraction. It is the most painful form of burn, as the nerve-endings are involyed but not destroyed. 4th degeee.—Destruction of the whole shin. — The sloughs are yellowish-brown and parchment-like; and their separation is attended by much suppuration. As the nerve-endings are completely destroyed, the pain is much less than in the former degree of burn. The epithe- lium which covers in the granulating surface is only derived from the margins of the burn, and the resulting scar consists of dense fibrous tissue. Hence the extensive contraction and great deformity which often result. 5th degree.—Penetration of the deep fascia and im- plication of the muscles,—Great scarring and deformity necessarily follow. 6th degree.—Charring of the ivhole limh.—The parts are separated by ulceration in the same way as in gangrene. Cdnstittjtional Eeeects.—When the burn is super- ficial and of small extent, there may be no constitutional symptoms ; and even when it is deep, but limited to one of the extremities, as the foot or hand, they may also be slight. When, however, the burn is extensive, and especially when it involves the chest, abdomen, or head and neck, even although it is only of the first or second degree, the symptoms may be severe, more particularly when the patient is a child. The constitutional effects may be divided into three stages:—1. Shock and con- gestio7i. 2. Reaction and inflammation, ■ 3. Suppuration and exhaustion, 1st stage.—Shock and congestioii.^—The shock is often very great, especially when the burn is extensive, and involves the trunk, or head and neck. The patient is pale and shivering, the pulse feeble and fluttering, and the extremities are cold; he suffers little or no pain, and sometimes passes into a state of coma and dies, the chief post-mortem appearances being congestion of the internal organs, particularly the brain. 2nd stage. ^—Reaction and inflammation.—Eeaction comes on from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the burn. The pulse is full, strong, and rapid, the tem- perature rises, and there are other symptoms of fever. Inflammation is set up around the burnt part, and there is now danger of the absorption of the septic products derived from the putrefaction of the sloughs which are beginning to separate. The congestion of the internal