631 EXTIRPATION OF THE LARYNX. otomy. In oedematous laryngitis, however, it is a yery useful procedure. Extirpation of the larynx.—Partial or complete remoyal of the cartilages of the larynx may be required for malignant disease when the growth is confined to that organ and the glands in the neck are not involved. First perform tracheotomy, and plug the trachea with Hahn's tampon cannula, and continue the administra- tion of the anaesthetic through it. Next make an incision in the middle line of the neck from the hyoid bone to the tracheotomy wound; free the upper part of the trachea and the larynx from their attachments by dissecting close to these structures, securing all bleeding vessels as they are divided. Divide the trachea above the cannula and detach the larynx from the remaining connections, work- ing from below upwards. Where part of the larynx can be saved, the risks of the operation will be greatly lessened. Lightly plug the wound with antiseptic gauze, leaving the cannula in situ. The patient must be fed at first through a soft tube passed down the oesophagus, and by nutrient enemata. On the healing of the wound an artificial larynx should be fitted to the parts, by the help of which the patient will be able to speak moderately distinctly. diseases of the parotid gland. Parotitis or mumps, is an acute infectious disease attended with sharp febrile disturbance, and with a local inflammation of the parotid gland. There is generally much pain and swelling, but neither redness nor tendency to suppuration. On the subsidence of the inflammation in the one gland, the opposite, if not already affected, generally becomes inflamed, or more rarely the testicle, ovary, or mamma is attacked—a condition spoken of as metastasis. Confinement to the house, a gentle laxative, and a belladonna or opiate liniment or poppy fomentations to soothe the pain is all that is usually required. Parotitis may follow surgical operations, especially those involving the abdominal cavity. It soon subsides if the original wound runs an aseptic course, but if it be due to septic absorption suppuration quickly ensues (pysemia). Parotid abscesses should be opened by an incision