DISEASES OF REGION'S. 552 convexity of the lens artificially by giving a convex lens; and by so doing allowing parallel rays to be refracted on the retina, and then the ciliary muscle will be able to focus divergent rays on the retina. In children and young adults to find out their hypermetropia it is often necessary to order atropine before testing the refraction. The symptoms of hypermetropia are pain and discomfort on reading, con- gested eyelids and conjunctivae, spasm and fibrillar twitch- ings of the lids, convergent strabismus, headache, &c. Hypermetropia is usually congenital, often hereditary, and is frequently associated with a flat-looking face, shallow orbits and small eyes. Myopia is the opposite condition to hypermetropia, and in it the retina (My.) only receives certain divergent rays (D). It is due as a rule to the axis of the eye being too long, or in some cases to the ciliary muscle rendering the lens too convex (spasm of accommodation). The treat- ment except in cases of spasm of accommodation, is to give concave glasses to allow parallel and divergent rays to fall on the retina. In low degrees of myopia it is only necessary to order glasses for distance, but in high degrees it is usual to order a stronger pair for distance, and a weaker pair for reading, &c. In apparent myopia due to spasm of the ciliary muscle it is necessary to order atropine to find out the true refraction. Myopes often have the head elongated in the antero-posterior diameter, a long face and large prominent eyes. Myopia is gene- rally accompanied by a crescent at the outer side of the disk {posterior staphyloma)^ and there may be secondary choroidal trouble, detachments of the retina, vitreous opacities, &c. Astigmatism is the condition in which one or more of the refractive surfaces have not the same curvature in all directions. Astigmatism may be divided into—(1), irregular, in which there is a difference of refraction in the different parts of the same meridian due to changes in the lens and cornea; and (2), regular where there is a difference in two meridians {chief meridians) at right angles to one another, and called those of maximum and minimum refraction. It is usually corneal {static astigma- tism), but may be due to the ciliary muscle {dynamic astigmatism). Eegular astigmatism may be—{a) simple, where one meridian is emmetropic and the other hyper- metropic or myopic, and is then called simple hyper- metropic or simj^le myopic astigmatism; {h) compound,