SOUNDING THE BLADDER. 749 its own weight without using any force. When the sound is in, gently push it onwards to examine the posterior part of the bladder. Then turn the beak alter- nately to either side ; and depress the handle between the patient's thighs to search the upper fundus. Then turn the beak downwards to examine the base or lower fundus. If the stone is not detected, let out a little of the urine, or change the patient's position, or raise his pelvis and try again. The stone may not be felt, because it is of small size, or has become encysted, or entangled in a fold of mucous membrane. A guarded opinion, therefore, should be given, and a further examination made another day. A. stone may be known to be present by the peculiar ring which is both felt and heard on striking it. This ring is quite unlike the sensation given to the sound by its coming into contact with phosphatic deposits on a roughened or fasciculated bladder, or with one of the pelvic bones. Having discovered a stone, the next care should be to determine approximately—1, its probable size and composition; 2, whether it is free or encysted; 3, whether there is one stone or more; and, 4, the condition of the bladder and urethra. 1. The size of the stone can be roughly estimated by the amount of resis- tance offered on pushing it before the sound or by passing the sound over it, and by feeling it through the rectum with the other hand pressing on the hypogastrium. Its exact size can only be ascertained by seizing it with the lithotrite, the distance the blades are then apart being indicated by the scale on the handle. The composition of the stone may be approximately arrived at by (a) the character of the ring on striking it—the clearer the ring the harder the stone, [{b) the condition of the surface, which is rough in the oxalate of lime, smooth in the phosphatic, (c) the re-action of the urine, and {d), the general health of the patient. 2. A stone, luhen encysted, is always felt at the same spot in the bladder, and when seized with the lithotrite cannot be moved. The sound cannot be passed all round it. There is no blood present, and the symptoms are usually less severe, and are not increased by exercise. 3. The presence of a second stone can only be determined with certainty by seizing one stone with the lithotrite, and then sb'iking the other. Treatment.—The stone may be removed by crushing {lithotrity), or cutting (lithotomy). In adults, lithotrity, with but few exceptions, should be the rule. In children.