27 SOTPURATION AND ABSCESS. inflammation, followed, whilst pus is forming, by a chill or rigor and by throbbing pain in the part. The pain, however, usually ceases when suppuration is fully estab- lished. The local signs, when the abscess is superficial, are pointing, central softening, and when about to burst, a red and glazed appearance of the skin with separation of the cuticle. Deep suppuration is often difficult to detect; deep-seated fluctuation, oedema, subcuticular mottling and tenderness on pressure are then the chief signs; but puncture with a grooved needle will clear up any doubt. Treatment.—The chief indications are to remove the pus with as little injury to the tissues as possible, to ensure a sufficient drain, and to maintain the parts aseptic. When it is evident that suppuration must ensue it should be promoted by moist warmth in the form of a large boracic poultice sprinkled with opium, or hot poppy fomentations. As soon as fluctuation is detected the abscess should be opened by making a free incision in the most dependent part or where it is pointing, of course taking care to avoid blood-vessels or other important structures in the neighbourhood. The pus should generally be allowed to flow out of its own accord. To ensure a thorough drain, and to prevent any tension from re-accumulation, the opening should be free and a drainage tube should be inserted. If the abscess is large a counter opening may be necessary or the abscess cavity may degenerate into a sinus. If the drainage is efficient, no harm will ensue if a poultice, the favourite treatment of the older surgeons, be applied. But if the abscess is deep and the aperture small and there is thus danger of the pus becoming retained and undergoing decomposition, antiseptic dressings or boracic fomenta- tions should be used, as under these circumstances the retained discharge will probably be under some degree of tension and the granulation-walls of the abscess hence inefficient to prevent absorption. Although it is a rule in Surgery to open an abscess as soon as fluctuation clearly shows that pus has formed, there are some instances in which this is especially imperative. Thus an abscess should be opened at once when it is situated in the perineum, the abdominal or thoracic walls, the sheath of a tendon, under deep fascise or the peritoneum, in the orbit, near a joint, and in the neck if attended by dyspnoea ; when obstructing some passage ; when caused