300 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. (b.) Instrumental pressure, (c.) Pressure by Esmarch's bandage, (d.) Pressure by flexion of the limb. (a.) Digital pressure, where it can be applied to the artery on the proximal side at some distance from the sac, is undoubtedly the safest and best method of treating an aneurysm; and it is the one, other things being favourable, which should usually first be tried. Its advantages are— 1, that it causes less pain than other forms of pressure; 2, that the artery can be compressed with little or no in- terference with the venous circulation; 3, that it is less liable to injure the tissues; and 4, that in common with other methods of pressure, it does not expose the patient to the dangers of an open wound. It requires a relay of intelligent assistants, acting in pairs and alternately compressing the artery for about ten minutes at a time. Whilst one presses the artery, the other should have his hand on the aneurysm, to ascertain if pulsation is being properly controlled. The fingers of the one assistant should not be removed till the other has taken his place, as the artery must on no account escape compression for a single moment. The pressure of the fingers may be aided by a shot-bag, and the spot at which pressure is applied may be slightly varied from time to time. Opinions differ as to whether the circulation should be completely, or only partially stopped through the artery, and whether the pressure should be continued both day and night, or only during the day. Aneurysms have been cured by digital pressure in a few hours, but some days are usually necessary ; and to obtain success, much care and attention to detail is required. (6) Instrumental pressure may be applied so as only partially to control the circulation through the artery, and thus induce the gradual obliteration of the aneurysm by the deposit of laminated fibrin in the sac {slow pres- sure) ; or it may be applied so as to completely control the flow of blood through the vessel, and induce rapid coagulation in the sac (rapid pressure). The latter method can only be done under an anaesthetic, but has been attended with some brilliant results, especially in cases of abdominal aneurysms. As a rule for external aneurysms, however, the milder measures will suffice, and it is a question if these fail whether it is not better treatment to ligature the artery than subject the patient to further attempts at cure by rapid pressure. Both kinds of pres- sure may be applied by one or other of the many foims