INJUBIES OF REGIONS. 414 tUem as described above. In any case the patient should be placed at absolute rest in bed and bis diet restricted to small quantities of iced milk for the first few days. Most surgeons would give opium in small doses. Should peritonitis supervene it must be treated as described under that head. II. Penetrating wounds with injury, but with- out PROTRUSION OE THE VISCERA.—When the wound is large, and the injured viscus can be seen, the nature of the injury will probably be obvious. When, however, the wound is small, unless there be an escape externally of fseces, bile, urine, or the contents of the stomach, there are no primary signs, with the exception perhaps of emphysema about the wound, absolutely diagnostic of a viscus having been injured. Intense pain, and extreme collapse, if present, no doubt point to such an injury having probably occurred; but both pain and shock are so variable as really to afford little guidance. Later the presence of tympanites and the escape of blood from the anus make it highly probable the intestine has been wounded. In a doubtful case of wound of the intestine the rectum may be inflated with hydrogen by Senn's rubber balloon. If the gut is wounded the gas will escape through the rent into the peritoneum and thence through the external wound, where it will ignite on applying a light, thus settling the diagnosis. In a doubtful wound of the stomach this viscus may be inflated by a tube passed through the mouth. The tympanites will be con- fined to the stomach if the viscus is sound, or spread to the rest of the abdomen and efface the liver dul- ness if it is injured. Any of the viscera may be implicated ; but wounds of the liver, gall-bladder, spleen, and stomach, are much less common than wounds of the intestine. The danger to be apprehended is haemorrhage in the case of the liver or spleen, extravasation in the case of a hollow viscus, and in all, peritonitis. The amount of extravasation will depend upon the size of the wound, and whether the viscus was distended or empty at the time of injury; when the wound is a mere punc- ture, there may be none. If the extravasation is but slight, or escapes externally through the wound in the parietes, it may be cut off from the general peritoneal cavity by a local peritonitis, and the patient recover. An extensive extravasation is always followed by diffuse septic peritonitis, which, unless surgical measures are