DISEASES OF REGIONS. 690 dividing the stricture, tlie edges of the wound should be united in the way described at p. 416. Treatment of omentum,—When small in amount, recently protruded, and only slightly congested, the omentum should be returned. When large in amount, thickened, inflamed, or gangrenous, it should be ligatured, cut off, and the stump returned into the abdomen. Aseptic silk is the best material for ligaturing the omentum. The ligature to prevent slipping should be tied very tightly or made to transfix the pedicle, the latter, if necessary, being gently pulled down to ensure it being tied at a healthy spot. When the omentum forms a large mass it should be carefully unravelled to determine the absence || | of intestine in its midst, and then tied in separate portions. Ligature of the vessels separately is unsafe, as some may Fig. 263.—Wormald's hernia director. be missed, and haemorrhage occur into the peritoneal cavity. The ligatures should be cut off short and returned with the omentum. They become encysted and cause no irritation. If the omentum is adherent to the intestine it may be gently separated from it or returned with the intestine. If adherent to the sac it may be separated and returned or removed with the latter. Division of the stricture at the neck of the sac.—Pass the index finger gently between the intestine and the sac, or if the omentum is spread out between the intestine and the sac (forming the so-called omental sac) between the intestine and omentum. The stricture having been dis- covered insinuate the finger-nail gently under it, and the intestine being held aside by the other fingers or by an assistant, pass the hernia knife, held with its blade on the flat and protected by the pulp of the finger, beneath the stricture, turn its cutting edge towards the stricture, and notch the latter in one or more places by gently depressing the handle. The direction in which the notch should be made will depend upon the situation of the hernia; in extent it should be as limited as possible. The Surgeon, as a rule, will do better to employ his finger than the director, as there is much less risk of wounding the intestine, but if a director is used it should be broad and flat (Fig. 263).