672 DISEASES 0^ tlEGlOJ^S. masses of faeces in its interior. The peritoneum, on the other hand, may generally be known by the absence of the above characters, and if it is nipped up by the intestine being felt to slip away from between the fingers. Having found the colon, secure it to the skin. This is usually done by passing a silk suture by means of a curved needle on a handle, first through the skin, then through the bowel, and then through the skin on the opposite side of the wound, and repeating the procedure at the other end of the wound. The bowel is then opened in a longitudinal direction, the loops of suture by which it is transfixed hooked out by the finger and divided, and the bowel secured to the integument by the four sutures thus formed. A better and more convenient way of passing the sutures, which should then be of wire, is by Smith's cleft palate needle. If this is used a series of sutures are passed, first through the skin, and then through the wall of the bowel, and tied before the bowel is opened. Should the peritoneal cavity be opened by mistake, it must be carefully closed by suture before the incision is made into the colon. Some perform lumbar colotomy in two stages, like gas- trostomy; but if the operation is carefully done in the way described above, such is hardly necessary. The bowels should be kept at rest by means of opium for four or five days, and no food given by the mouth for twenty-four hours. An enema may subsequently be required if the bowels do not act spontaneously. It may also become necessary to clear that portion of the bowel which is beyond the wound. Indeed it has been proposed to close completely this part of the bowel by operation so as to prevent faeces passing down it. OPERATIOKS ON THE. LIVER, GALL-BLABDEE, STOMACH, SPLEEN AND PANCREAS. Aspiration of the liver may be required for the purpose of diagnosis in the case of a suspected hydatid cyst or abscess in the liver, or for the removal of the j fluid from a hydatid cyst. Having thoroughly cleansed the skin with an antiseptic and placed the patient if nervous under an anaesthetic, introduce the aspirating needle at the most prominent part of the swelling, taking care to avoid the colon and intestines. When operat- ing for hydatids stop the aspiration if blood escapes, if