807 VARICOCELE. a small trocar and cannula. Should it refill, it may be injected with iodine, like an ordinary hydrocele, or it may be laid open by an antiseptic incision. But before undertaking its radical cure, it must be ascertained that there is no communication with the peritoneum. This may usually be done by noting that no decrease in size takes place on applying steady pressure for some little time. Yaeicocele is a dilated and varicose condition of the spermatic plexus of veins. The causes of varicocele are not really known. ^ It has been attributed to an extra lax state of the parts, induced by debility and general want of tone; congestion from too early or continual excitement of the sexual organs ; occupations invol- ving long standing; and to certain anatomical peculiarities (all of which, however, are present in every healthy male), such as the great length of the spermatic veins, the dependent posi- tion of the testicle, the plexiform ar- rangement of the veins in the scrotum, &c. But it often occurs in men in good health, and in whom the parts are not lax. The reasons given for its much greater frequency on the left than on the right side are—1, that the left vein is longer than the right; 2, that an obstacle is o:ffered to the outlet of the left vein by its opening at right angles into the renal vein; 3, that the blood pressure is less in the vena cava than in the renal vein ; 4, that the left vein is crossed by the sigmoid flexure, and is hence liable to be pressed upon by fsecal accu- mulations. Mr. W. Gr. Spencer, who has recently worked at this subject, believes that the presence of the large veins is due to a congenital variation from the normal process of development, whereby many of the veins of the Wolffian body (from which the spermatic veins are formed) remain unobliterated, and capable of being dilated by anything obstructing the return of venous blood from the testicle. More of these veins, he says, are normally obliterated on the right than on the left side. Fig. 814.—Varico- cele. (St. Bar- tholomew's Hos- pital Museum.)