653 INTESTINAL OBSTHUCTION. I SuKGiCAL Diseases of the Intestines. I ' INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. I j The pathological conditions that may give rise to intes- tinal obstruction are very various, and may be considered under the following heads :— i 1. Impaction of f^ces or foreign bodies in the INTESTINES.—Accumulation of hardened faeces may occur as the result of habitual or accidental constipation, and is ' then nearly always met with in the large bowel, and ' especially in the region of the caecum or in the sigmoid flexure and rectum. The impaction of gall-stones or intestinal concretions, though more rare, is also met with in the small intestines. Obstruction from these causes is more common in women than in men. I 2. Internal strangulation or internal hernia.— These terms are applied to obstruction of the intestine by some constricting agent within the abdomen. The strangulation may be effected by : 1. Bands produced by the stretching of old inflammatory adhesions, the result of former peritonitis. These are more particularly common about the mouths of old hernial sacs. 2. The remains of some foetal structure, as the omphalo-mesenteric duct, Meckel's diverticulum, &c. 3. A coil of intestine slipping through a hole in the mesentery or omentum. 3. YoLYULUS is a twisting or kinking of a coil of intes- tine, so that its calibre is completely obliterated at the twisted or bent spot. Accumulation of flatus, constipation I and unequal distension have been assigned as causes. Volvulus is said to be most common in the sigmoid flexure; and always to be situated towards the back of the abdominal cavity. The intestine may be—1, simply bent upon itself; 2, twisted round its mesentery; and 3, wound round another coil of intestine. The first form only occurs in the colon; the second in the small intes- tine ; the third form usually consists of the colon wound round a coil of small intestine, the sigmoid flexure, or the caecum. 4. Intussusception (Fig. 251) is the invagination of a portion of intestine into the lumen of the intestine imme- diately below. The intestine thus forms three tubes, one within the other, an outer, middle, and inner (Fig. 252). The external tube is called the sheath, or intussuscijpiens, the innermost the entering tube, the middle the receding