DISEASES OF REGIONS. 554 Convergent strabismus {internal squint) is most commoiilY due to hypermetropia, owing to tlie fact tliat the excessive accommodation necessitates a corresponding convergence; but it may occur occasionally in myopia, and follows division or paralysis of an external rectus. Divergent strabismus [external squint) is caused from insufficiency of convergence power, and weakness of the internal recti, especially in myopia; from defective vision of an eye, as in cornea nebulae, &c. ; and from division or paralysis of an internal rectus. The treatment of concomitant strabismus is by atro- pine, eserine, spectacles, prisms, and stereoscopic exercises. The operations that may be required are either tenotomy of the muscle of the affected side, or advancement of the muscle of the opposite side. As a rule only one eye Fig. 196.—Strabismus hook. should be operated on at a time. The treatment of paralytic strabismus is by constitutional remedies and galvanism of the affected muscle. Tenotomy of the iiiternal rectus.—Patient lying down and under cocaine or general anaesthesia; operator stand- ing in front and to the right hand side. Introduce the spring speculum, and pinch up with a pair of fixation forceps the conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue at the point of junction of the lower horizontal and inner vertical tangents to the cornea. Divide this fold with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, making the incision only large enough to admit the points of the scissors, and then, passing the scissors through the incision, divide the cap- | sule of Tenon. Pass the strabismus hook (Pig. 196) into | the wound, directing its point backwards, and then turn | the end of the hook upwards between the globe and the tendon, until its point is seen beneath the conjunctiva, at the upper border of the tendon. Introduce the scissors through the wound and open the blades on either side of the tendon between the globe and the hook, and by one or two snips cut through the tendon. Eemove the hook and then reintroduce it to see if the tendon is completely