34 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. become disintegrated as in suppuration and are cast off in a molecular and partly liquid form, while those a little deeper become completely replaced by the leuco- cytes and proliferating cells which form a layer of vascular granulation-tissue (Fig. 4), essentially similar to that forming an abscess wall. When the cause of the ulcera- tion is removed the circulation around becomes normal, the infiltration of leucocytes and serum and proliferation of the tissue cells cease, and although the superficial cells of the granulation-tissue at first degenerate and are cast off as pus, under healthy conditions the granulation-tissue soon outbalances in its growth the superficial disintegra- tion and thus fills up the ulcer. New epithelium is formed from the old epithelium at the margin of the ulcer, and gradually spreads over the surface of the granulations till the ulcer is finally skinned over. The granulations develop into fibrous tissue which slowly contracts, helping to reduce the size of the wound. Causes.—Ulceration, like suppuration, is due to the action of the pyogenic micrococci on tissues weakened by previous inflammation. Por a fuller account of the causes of ulceration, therefore, the student is referred to the causes of inflammation and suppuration. Here it may briefly be said that the ulcerations of the integu- ments so common in surgical practice are generally the result of:—1. Injury, often slight, inflicted on parts the vitality of which is already lowered by poor living, ad- vancing age, and chronic congestions due to varicose veins, long-standing, &c. 2. Certain morbid states of the system, such as are produced by syphilis and struma. 3. Pressure, especially when conjoined with a defective nerve-supply, as an example of which may be mentioned bed-sores occurring in cases of injury to the spinal cord. The treatment of ulceration varies according to the local condition of the ulcer and the constitutional state of the patient, and will be discussed under Varieties of Ulcers. All that need be said in general is, that the cause should if possible be removed, all sources of irri- tation avoided, the constitutional state of the patient treated with appropriate remedies, and such dressings applied as are indicated by the local condition of the ulcer. Diseases oe cicatrices.—After an ulcer has healed over and the granulation-tissue has been converted into fibrous tissue, this latter continues to shrink, leading to