DISEASES OF REGIONS. 592 cirrhosis of tlie liver, heart-disease, granular kidney, &c. 4. It may also occur in scurvy, some forms of fever, and in the hsemorrhagic diathesis. 5. It is common after blows or other injuries of the nose; and 6. It may be a symptom of fracture of the base of the skull, or of a fibrous or malignant polypus in the nose or naso-pharynx. The symptoms are usually evident. The blood generally comes from one nostril, occasionally from both; but it may pass through the posterior nares and be swallowed, and being afterwards vomited, simulate hsematemesis ; or ^it may irritate the larynx, cause cough, and may then be mistaken for haemoptysis. On looking into the mouth in such cases, however, the blood will be seen trickling down the back of the throat; whilst it may also be apparent on examining the nose with a speculum. The treatment will depend upon the cause. Spontaneous haemorrhages occur- ring in the young, except as the result of the hsemorrhagic diathesis, generally stop of their own accord, and require no special treatment beyond those remedies common in domestic use. When due to congestion and apparently salutary, the bleeding should not be too soon checked. In cachectic subjects it is often difficult to control; rest on the back with the arms raised, sucking ice, cold or hot douches, ice to the nose, subcutaneous injections of ergotine (grs. iij.), gallic acid, lead and opium and small doses of ergot or of perchloride of iron, may then be tried. Or pellets of cotton-wool soaked in solutions of cocaine (20°/^) may be placed in the nostril, or pressure made on the upper lip just below the ala of the nose in order to compress the nasal branch of the superior coro- nary artery from which the blood is said often to be derived. If the haemorrhage cannot be thus controlled, the posterior nares should be plugged. The best means of effecting this is by the india-rubber inflating tampon. This consists of an india-rubber tube, with two dilata- tions upon it so sized and shaped that when inflated they will accurately fill the posterior and anterior nares respectively. It is passed in flaccid by means of a long probe, and inflated when in position by the mouth or a small syringe, the escape of air being prevented by clamping the tube. Ee-inflation is necessary from time to time. The posterior nares may also be plugged by Bellocq's sound (Fig. 215) in the following manner. A pledget of lint or cotton-wool rather larger than the aperture to be filled (that is, about half an inch by an