SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 345 Pereorating ulcer of the foot.—Though the pres- sure of a corn can generally be traced as the exciting cause of the ulcer, it would appear in many cases to depend upon changes in the peripheral nerves, leading to trophic changes in the part and a consequent lowered resist- ing power of the tissues to injury or pressure. It is some- times associated with locomotor ataxia, at times with diabetes, and more rarely with spina bifida. The usual situation of the ulcer is the ball of the great or little toe. It is attended with but slight inflammation, and probing causes hardly any pain. It may lead to destruction of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, necrosis of the bones, and perhaps complete perforation of the foot; it is sometimes the starting point of gangrene. There is usually local sweating, lowering of temperature, and impairment of sensation of the foot and lower third of the leg. The patella-reflex is often lost. Treatment.—Though the ulcer will often yield to prolonged rest, the removal of dead bone, scraping, and other local treatment, amputa- tion is sometimes called for. Nerve-stretching has also been recommended. Eelapses are common. SURGICAL diseases OF THE SKIN. Yerruc^ or warts, are small excrescences on the skin formed by the hypertrophy of the papillae and epidermis. The following varieties are described. 1. Verrucce vulgares^ or common warts, so frequent on the hands of children and young adults. 2. Verrucae seniles, which occur as brownish elevations generally about the back, neck, and arms of old people. 3. Verrucce necro- genicce, common on the hands of dissecting-room porters and morbid anatomists. 4. Venereal luarts, met with on the genitals as the result of the irritation of gonorrhoeal or other irritant discharges. 5. Soot warts, which affect the scrotum of chimney-sweeps, and are frequently the starting point of sweep's cancer." 6. Congenital ivarts, which take more the form of irregularly-shaped growths than of true warts, are not very common. Treatment.— Common ivarts often disappear spontaneously. They may be readily destroyed by such caustics as salicylic, acetic, and nitric acid, or nitrate of silver; or they may be snipped off with the knife or scissors, or ligatured. Senile warts, when large, had better be excised. The soot wart