702 DISEASES OF REGIONS. form process of the fascia lata, passes, should it further increase in size, over Poupart's ligament on to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the ab- domen. The neck of the sac is situated at the femmal ring (Fig. 270), and is therefore bounded in front by Poupart's ligament, behind by the bone, internally by the sharp wiry edge of Gimbernat's ligament, and ex- ternally by the femoral vein, from which it is only separated by the innermost septum of the femoral sheath. The spermatic cord is close above it; the epi- gastric artery passes a little external to it; but there is no structure of importance, as a rule, on its inner, and upper and inner side. The obturator artery, however, may be given oflE from the epigastric or external iliac artery, and encircle this part of the ring in its course to the obturator foramen (Pig. 270). It is then in great danger of being wounded in dividing the stricture. Fortunately, however, al- though the artery often rises in this abnormal manner, it does not then, as a rule, take the above-mentioned danger- ous course, but passes along the outer side of the ring where it is out of danger. The coverings of a femoral hernia are—(Fig. 271) 1, skin; 2, superficial fascia; 3, cribriform fascia; 4, anterior layer of the femoral sheath, called the fascia propria; 5, septum crurale; 6, subperitoneal fat; and 7, peri- toneum forming the sac. The fascia propria is often very thin, or in places absorbed, so that little more than skin and one or two delicate layers of fascia ^ cover the sac. But it may be greatly thickened, especially over the neck of the sac, where it may form distinct fibrous bands, which go by the name of the deep crural arch. Femoral hernia is never congenital; and seldom occurs before adult life. It is more common in women than in men. The stricture when the hernia is strangulated is Fig. 270.—The obturator ar- tery given off abnormally from the epigastric, and running round the npper and inner side of a femoral hernia. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum.)