l»BESStJEE-TEi2ATMEKT OF ANEUBYsM. ^99 on the proximal side, as for instance, in aneurysms at the root of the neck, it becomes a question whether we should trj^ distal pressure or ligature, scratching the wall with needles {Macewen''s method), manipulation, galvano- puncture, coagulating injections, or the introduction of wire or horsehair; or fall back on medical means alone. In some varieties of traumatic aneurysms where the artery is presumed to be healthy, and in certain forms of aneu- rysm, as gluteal, where a ligature of the artery at a distance from the sac is attended with excessive risk, it may even be expedient to resort to the old method of opening the sac, turning out the clot, and securing both ends of the bleeding vessel by ligature. Each of these methods requires discussion. Before resorting to surgical methods, however, the circulation through the aneurysm should have been previously quieted as much as possible by rest, recumbency, restriction of the diet, and regulation of the secretions. Where the aneurysm is on an artery of the lower extremity, any embarrassment of the venous circulation and consequent oedema that may be present, should be lessened or removed by elevating and lightly bandaging the part. Pressure.—This method of treating aneurysm was known to the older Surgeons, but in consequence of their efforts being directed either to the emptying of the sac by direct pressure upon it, or to the obliteration of the artery leading to it by adhesive inflammation, it was attended with such unfavourable results that it fell into disuse. To the Dublin Surgeons, who recognized the fact that it was not necessary to obliterate the artery in order to cause consolidation of the aneurysm, is due in chief part the credit of reviving treatment by pressure. The object of pressure as now employed, is to produce consolidation of the aneurysm, by the formation of either a laminated, or an ordinary coagulum. The methods of bringing this about may be considered under 1, direct pressure on the aneurysm ; and 2, indirect pressure, either on the artery above, on the artery below, or on both simultaneously. 1. Direct ^pressure is now seldom used, except in as far as flexion may be considered as in part a method of direct pressure, although several successful cases have of late been reported. It will not receive further notice. 2. Indirect pressure, whether applied to the artery above, the artery below, or to both at the same time, may be considered under the heads of—(a.) Digital pressure.