APPENDIX. 862 bone, wliicli is sawn througli a little higher up. By this method most of the advantages of the circular amputation are secured without its disadvantages. When on the other hand, the muscles are included in the flaps, the vessels and nerves are liable to be split, or notched, or divided obliquely instead of transversely, whilst the mass of muscle in the flap tends to prolong the healing of the wound. These muscular flaps may be cut either from without inwards, i.e.^ from the circumference towards the bone, or from within outwards, t.e., by the method of transfixion. In whichever way the flaps are cut, and whether they consist of integuments only, or of integu- ments and muscle, they may as regards position be antero-posterior or lateral, or one may be antero-ex- ternal, and the other postero-internal, or vice versa. As regards length they may be equal, or one may be long, the other short; and as regards breadth they should be half the circumference of the limb. As a rule they should be cut square, but with rounded angles. The follow- ing modifications of the flap operation may be briefly mentioned. TeaWs method consists in making a long and a short rectangular flap (Fig. 334). The long flap, which is gene- rally anterior, or antero-external, is quadrilateral in shape, and its length and breadth each equal to half the circum- ference of the limb ; it includes all the soft parts down to the bone. The short flap is posterior, or postero-internal; its length is one-fourth the anterior, and its breadth equal to half the circumference of the limb; it also includes all the soft parts down to the bone, and contains the large vessels and nerves. When the operation is completed and the wound closed the stump presents the appearance shown in the lower half of Fig. 334. The advantages claimed for Teale's method are:—1, freedom from tension; 2, a complete covering for the bone free of large vessels and nerves; and 3, a dependent position of the wound. It is applicable to amputations through the leg and lower third of the thigh. Cardenas method, designed for amputating through the condyles of the femur, consists in reflecting a semi-oval flap of integuments, half the circuroference of the limb in length and breadth, from the front of the knee-joint, dividing everything else down to the bone by a circular sweep of the knife, and sawing the bone across slightly above the plane of the divided muscles.