708 DISEASES OE EEGIONS. gut may be injured or may be in a state unfit to return into the abdomen. It is better therefore to make an incision similar to that for femoral hernia, but slightly longer, and having divided the various coverings and opened the sac, to incise the stricture in a direction down- wards and inwards, avoiding if possible the obturator artery and nerve. Where the diagnosis is doubtful the ring should be explored either in the way described above or through an incision in the middle line of the abdomen, the hernia, if one is found, being in the latter case drawn out from the ring from within the abdomen, after cautiously dividing the stricture. Diaphragmatic, or phrenic hernia, is one that pro- trudes through the diaphragm into the thoracic cavity. It is very rare. The aperture may be due to a con- genital defect, to the enlargement of one of the natural openings, or to a wound or laceration of the diaphragm. The hernia usually occurs on the left side, the liver tending to prevent any protrusion on the right. There is no peritoneal sac, the viscus, which is usually the stomach or transverse colon, escaping into the pleural cavity. In the Museum of St. Bartholomew's there is a unique speci- men of a hernia of the omentum into the pericardium, the result of a wound. Symptoms.—In some cases there have been no symp- toms ; in other cases unnatural fulness and abnormal resonance of the left side of the chest with gurg:ling on auscultation, excessive thirst, and signs of internal strangulation have been observed. "When the result of a wound, pleurisy or peritonitis, or both, have generally soon supervened and carried off the patient. No treatment, as far as I know, had been attempted until Postempski quite recently reduced the hernia by incision and sewed up the rupture in the diaphragm. This case was successful. The RARER forms of hernia, viz., the iscJiiatic, which leaves the pelvis through the greater ischiatic notch either above or below the pyriformis ; the lumhar, which escapes between the quadratus lumborum and external oblique; the j9eW?2ea?, which presents between the vagina and the rectum; the pudendal, which escapes between the vagina and the ascending ramus of the ischium; the rectal and vaginal, which protrude respectively into these cavi- ties ; and the ventral, which escapes through the linea alba, are, on account of space, only mentioned to be dismissed.