591 EPISTAXIS. the articulation from the front, divide the external pterygoid, and carry the knife behind the condyle, taking care not to rotate the jaw outwards lest the internal maxillary artery be stretched round the neck of the condyle and be torn or divided. DISEASES OE THE IS'OSE, NASO-PHARYNX, AND ACCESSORY CAVITIES. AcNE ROSACEA is a dilated or congested condition of the capillaries of the nose, usually accompanied in its later stages by hypertrophy of the sebaceous follicles. It is attributed to indigestion, exposure to cold, sexual dis- turbance or the abuse of alcohol, and is most common in women. Treatment. — Eemove the cause, regulate the diet, and attend to the general health. Locally apply sulphur ointment or perchloride of mercury lotions. In severe cases the dilated vessels may be incised and the resulting haemorrhage restrained by touching them with perchloride of iron, but only small portions of the disease should be thus treated at a time. Lipoma nasi is a hypertrophy of the skin, subcu- taneous tissue, and sebaceous follicles of the nose, and not, as the name implies, an increase in the fatty tissue. It is characterized by the formation of irregular pendulous lobe-like masses, usually situated on the tip and alse of the nose, and often of a bluish-red colour. It occurs in elderly men, generally as the result of alcoholism. Treat- ment.—The masses should be shaved off, care being taken not to cut through the cartilages into the nostrils, and the parts left to granulate. The treatment is usually very successful. Syphilis, eodent ulcer, lupus and epithelioma may all attack the exterior of the nose, but require no special description here. Epistaxis or bleeding eeom the nose is a symptom . of many and various conditions. Thus—1. In the young it often appears to occur spontaneously from congestion of the mucous membrane, and is especially common in girls about the age of puberty. 2. In the plethoric it may be due to the congestion of the brain or liver, and then appears to give relief to the over-full vessels. 3. In the old or cachectic, on the contrary, it may be due to a poor or watery condition of the blood, such as is present in