32 GEJN-EKAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. sinus, and in some instances a fistula, is a long and often tortuous suppurating track, lined with a smootli membrane, and usually opening in the midst of prominent granula- tions. Treatment.—The cause should be sought, and if possible removed, and the walls of the sinus then pressed together by careful bandaging. The bandage should be so applied as to prevent the accumulation of pus in the deeper end, and the consequent reconversion of the sinus into an abscess. If this is found impracticable, a drainage- tube should be inserted and shortened daily as the sinus gradually fills up from the bottom. When the sinus has existed long, and the walls are callous and indurated, it should be stimulated by injections of tincture of iodine, nitrate of silver, or the like. Or the lining membrane may be destroyed by chloride of zinc, the galvano-cautery wire, or the benzoline or actual cautery. These and such like means failing, the sinus should be laid freely open, the lining membrane scraped away by a Yolkmann's spoon, and the wound plugged with iodoform gauze or other antiseptic material to ensure healing from the bottom. Where the laying open of a sinus would involve important structures, as a large vessel, or necessitate an extensive wound, or is otherwise impracticable or unadvisable, a counter-opening should be made by cutting on the end of a long probe, and the sinus then drained by passing a drainage-tube at first through it, and subsequently in at each end, and gradually withdrawing the two portions as the sinus heals. At the same time that these local means are adopted, attention must be paid to the general health, as the intractability of a sinus may depend in part, or even entirely, upon some constitutional derangement. The treatment of special fistulse is elsewhere described (See fistula in ano, &c.) ULCERATION AND ULCERS. Ulceration is another of the terminations of inflam- mation, and as we have already seen, merely differs from suppuration in that the one occurs in the substance of the - tissues, the other on the free surface. In both there is minute disintegration and liquefaction of the tissues, with degeneration and death of the infiltrating leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells; in suppuration, however, the dead products being unable to escape form an abscess,