762 DISEASES OE REGIONS. discoverable. Treatment, —Presupposing that tlie absence of thread-worms, calculus, long prepuce and growth in the bladder has been ascertained, the treatment should consists in tonics, cold baths, and the administration of belladonna in increasing doses till symptoms of bella- donna poisoning appear. The child should lie on his side, not on his back, and be awakened at regular intervals to pass water. I have found the continuous galvanic current of service; one pole should be applied over the urinary centre in the lumbar region, the other to the perineum. In obstinate cases, Sir Henry Thompson advises the appli- cation of a solution of silver nitrate (grs. x to gj) to the neck of the bladder. HEMATURIA or bloody urine is generally a symptom of disease or injury of the urinary organs, but may also occur in certain constitutional conditions, as scurvy, pur- pura, malaria, the h^emorrhagic diathesis, and in some fevers. "When blood is present in large quantities, the urine will be bright red or coffee or porter coloured; when in smaller quantities, of various shades of brown to which the term " smoky " is applied. Blood may be simulated by urates, indican, bile, or rhubarb or other colouring matter which may have been introduced by impostors. The dark greenish colour of the urine which is produced by the absorption of carbolic acid from a wound must not be mistaken for blood. Blood may be distinguished by blood-globules being seen under the microscope ; or by the ozonic ether test. Add a few drops of tincture of guaiacum to the suspected urine, and then an excess of ozonic ether, shake the mixture and allow it to stand; it will assume a blue colour if blood is present. Albumen will, of course, be detected in the urine if blood is present in quantity. Source of the hlood.—The blood may come from—1, the kidney or ureter; 2, the bladder or prostate; or 3, the urethra When from the Iddney or ureter it may be due to (a), injury, (&) congestion or inflammation, (c) Bright's disease, [d) the administration of turpentine or the appli- cation of a cantharides blister, (e) the presence of a para- site, the Bilharzia hsematobia, in the pelvis of the kidney in persons who have been in Africa, (/) the impaction or passage of a calculus, {g) the passing of a catheter up the urethra, or {h) malignant disease. When from the Madder or prostate it may be due to (a) injury, (6) calculus, (c) cystitis or prostatitis, or {d) villous or malignant