iKJIJItlES OF HEGIOKS. gradually overcome. As soon as tlie condyle is clear of the eminentia articnlaris it is drawn back into its place with a snap by the fibres of the retractor mnscles. At times, in consequeiiCe it would appear of the coronoid process being wedged against the zygoma, reduction can- not be effected in this way. Downward and backward pressure by the protected thumbs will then generally succeed. A four-tailed bandage (Fig. 106) should be worn for a fortnight to prevent re-dislocation, which is very liable to happen. The term subluxation of the jaw is applied by some to a displacement of the condyle from the interarticular cartilage; by others to an unnatural slipping forwards of the interarticular cartilage on the eminentia articularis in consequence of rupture or elongation of the ligaments. The latter condition is most frequently met with in delicate young people. The condyle catches, and the mouth cannot be closed for a second or two, but it can generally be replaced by the patient's voluntary efforts with a distinct snap. Treatment.—If counter-irritation and tonics do not succeed the joint may be opened and the cartilage secured in position by sutures. INJURIES OF THE NECK, INCLUDING THE ENTRANCE OF FOREIGN BODIES INTO THE PHARYNX, (ESOPHAGUS AND AIR-PASSAGES. Wounds of the neck.—Superficial wounds call for no special comment. Our attention here need only be given to wounds of the front of the neck, which are generally inflicted either with homicidal or suicidal in- tent. Such wounds are usually of the incised variety, more rarely punctured. They may be situated anywhere between the lower jaw and the top of the sternum, but are more common in the laryngeal region, especially through the thyro-hyoid membrane. Suicidal wounds are generally made obliquely from left to right and from above downwards, but may be transverse, and are com- monly deeper on the left than on the right side. These facts are explained by the suicide generally using the right hand, and becoming less determined as he proceeds. There is usually but one gash, but there may be several, and again the gash may be superficial, or it may be deep, even extending to the spine. The structures involved