DISEASES OF REGIONS. G88 lotion. A piece of the sac should be nipped up with the forceps, and nicked with the blade of the knife held on the flat. If too tense to allow of this, it must be cautiously scratched through with the point of a knife. As a rule there is no danger of injuring the intestine, as some fluid generally exists between the sac and its contents. The sac, however, should always be opened with, care, as the intes- tine may be in contact with it. If omentum is seen shining through the sac, it should be opened opposite that spot. The character of the fluid which escapes is a good criterion of the condition of the parts. If pale and serous, the indication is good; if blood-stained and turbid or faecal in odour, bad. A director should now be passed through the small opening, and the sac laid open, the fluid absorbed by sponges to prevent it running into the abdo- men, and the contents examined. If only omentum presents, this should be gently unravelled to search for Fig. 262.—Cooper's hernia knife. intestine, a small knuckle of which will often be found near the neck of the sac. The questions will now arise what shall be done with the intestine, what with the omentum ? Shall they, or can they be returned ? Shall the omentum be cut ofl ? Shall the stricture be divided ? Treatment of the intestine.—If the intestine is merely congested and claret-coloured but still shining and the fluid in the sac is of a serous character there can be no question of replacing it in the abdomen ; or if it is already gangrenous (a condition that may be known by its ash- grey colour, loss of elasticity and not bleeding if pricked), there can be no question on the other hand that it ought not to be returned but must be dealt with in one of the ways to be presently described. Again, if it is adherent to the sac the adhesions when soft and recent may be gently broken down with the finger and the intestine re- turned unless such is contra-indicated from other causes; or when the adhesions are old and fibrous, they may be cut through and ligatured, and the intestine also returned; but when they are thick and fleshy, the intestine must be left in the sac, as any attempt to break them down would