828 DISEASES OE REGIONS. up, with woollen stockings on tlie legs, &c., the bladder emptied by a catheter, the skin of the abdomen pre- viously cleansed with soap and water and antiseptics, and the anaesthetic administered, a mackintosh cloth with an oval opening is placed over the abdomen and secured round the opening to the skin by adhesive material. The parts should then be again sponged with antiseptics, and an incision made in the middle line about three inches long midway between the pubes and the umbilicus (Eig. 253, a). This incision may be afterwards prolonged if necessary. The peritoneum having been reached, and all haemorrhage stopped with pressure forceps, the peri- toneal cavity is carefully opened on a director, the hand introduced, and adhesions felt for. If the cyst is free. Spencer Wells' trocar and cannula are thrust through the cyst-wall, the fluid evacuated, and the cyst gradually drawn out through the wound as it is reduced in size by the escape of the fluid. The pedicle is now transfixed by a long needle armed with a suture of China silk, the suture severed, and the needle withdrawn. The two portions of suture are nexfc twisted, and the pedicle firmly tied on both sides. The pedicle is then divided on the cyst aspect, and the cyst removed, care being taken to prevent any of its contents escaping into the abdomen. If the cut surface of the pedicle appears dry, the sutures by which it is tied are cut o& short, and it is allowed to slip back into the pelvis ; but if any bleeding point is seen, this must first be secured. Should adhesions be felt on opening the abdomen, they should be carefully broken down by the hand, or divided if necessary, care being taken not to injure the intestines, and to secure all bleeding vessels. After the cyst has been removed, the other ovary should be examined, and if diseased, also removed. The sponging-out or irrigation of the abdomen is now begun, and must be continued as long as any blood-stained fluid can be squeezed from the sponges. The sponges, or better Gamgee's pads, should be thrust down deeply into Douglas's pouch, and when all the blood-stained fluid has been removed from this part of the peritoneum, a sponge attached by a string should be left there until just before closing the wound to ensure that no collection remains in this dependent situation. If irrigation is employed, an india-rubber tube attached to a can containing the irrigating fluid should be passed in various directions into the abdominal cavity, and the fluid