485 I FRACTITEES 0^ THE I^EMTTH. former condition, however, being by far the most common. Indeed, it is probable, that nearly all extracapsular fractures are in the first instance impacted and accom- panied by fracture through the great trochanter, and that they only become non-impacted by the splitting asunder of the trochanters, in consequence of the neck being driven in still further, wedge-wise, between them; and hence, that non-impaction only occurs as a result of great violence. The line of fracture through the trochanter commonly extends obliquely downwards and backwards, and terminates by passing through the trochanter minor; but it may take various directions, sometimes splitting the trochanter into several pieces. The method of union is generally bony, and as the blood supply is very good, there is often an excessive formation of callus. In rare instances no union, or fibrous union, occurs. The signs are similar to those of the intracapsular variety. Thus, there is eversion and shortening of the limb, pain on movement, inability as a rule to raise the limb from the ground, a.nd the top of the trochanter is found to be above Nelaton's line (Fig. 149), and the base of Bryant's triangle to be less than on the sound side. But the shortening is greater than in intracapsular fracture; the patient is commonly not so old; the fracture is probably produced by direct violence; the trochanter feels enlarged and thicker than that of the opposite side, from being split by the neck; there is swelling and bruising about the hip; and often much subsequent ecchymosis, since the blood being outside the capsule readily makes its way to the surface. In the non-imjpaded variety where there is much comminution of the tro- chanter, the shortening may be as much as two or three inches, and crepitus will be well marked. In the impacted, the shortening is much less, seldom exceeding an inch, and crepitus cannot be elicited, unless the fragments are loosely wedged. In firm impaction, indeed, the patient can often raise the leg, or even walk. Treatment. — In the non-impacted variety, extension should be applied by means of some variety of Listen's long splint, a stirrup, weight and pulley being substituted, if preferred, for the perineal band. Firm osseous union will generally be obtained in a month to six weeks. In the impacted, extension had better not be made, but the limb merely kept at rest by the long splint till the swell- ing and pain have subsided, and the patient then allowed