322 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. carpi ulnaris may have to be held aside. The aneurysm needle should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side to avoid the nerve which lies to the ulnar side. In the case of the radial, the needle may be passed either way as the radial nerve at the wrist is not in contact with the artery. No harm will ensue if the vense comites are tied with their respective vessels. The radial artery in the upper third lies deeply between the supinator longus and pronator radii teres. Make an incision 90 e) in a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to half an inch internal to the styloid process of the radius. Separate the muscles and the artery will be exposed. The radial nerve in this situation is some distance to the outer side of the artery. Ligature of the ulnar in the upper third is more difficult as it lies beneath the super- ficial flexor muscles. Make an incision (Fig. 90 f) four inches long in a line drawn from the front of the internal condyle to the radial side of the pisiform bone. Seek the interval between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitorum. Separate these muscles and the ulnar nerve will be seen. Work superficial to the, nerve and the artery will be found between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum. For Collateral circula- tion after ligature of the radial and ulnar arteries, see Fig. 89. , The external iliac autery may require ligature for:—1. Aneurysm in the groin; 2, secondary haemor- rhage from the femoral; 3, a wound of the vessel itself. A Ime drawn from half an inch below and a little to the left of the umbilicus to the middle of Poupart's ligament indicates its course. Make a curved incision beginning a little external to the centre of Poupart's ligament up- wards and outwards for about three inches towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium (Fig. 253, c). Divide the skin, superficial and deep fascia, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique; cut more carefully through the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and the fascia transversalis will be exposed. Divide this on a director, taking care not to injure the peritoneum. Separate the peritoneum gently from the psoas muscle, and let an assistant press it carefully upwards and in- wards. The artery will now be felt beating at the inner part of the wound along the inner border of the psoas. Pass the aneurysm needle from within outwards to avoid injuring the vein which lies to the inner side of the