H.EMoimilAGE. 123 the patient is in a state of shock. The functions of the nerves if paralysed have sonietinies been restored by galvanism. H^MOEHHAGE. Ii^ speaking of the treatment of wounds it was stated that onr first care should be to staunch haemorrhage. This requires different measures according as it is arterial, venous, or capillary. It is therefore first necessary to be able to distinguish between these varieties. Usually it is quite easy. In arterial liwmorrliage the blood escapes in jets, the force of wEich is increased at each systole of the heart, and is of a bright scarlet colour. In venous hcemor- rhage the blood wells up from the wounded vessel usually in a continuous"^ream, and is of a dark purplish-red colour^ in capillar(/ hcemor7'Jiage the blood appears to ooze from all parts of the wound, trickling down its sides to the deeper parts, where it forms a little pool. In some instances, however, as where arterial blood escapes fronij' a deep and devious wound, it may resemble venous bloodf in that it flows continuously instead of in jets, and when| the patient is partially asphyxiated, as from too large a| dose of an anaesthetic, it becomes of a dark colour. On,| the other hand, venous blood exposed to the air in its^ passage from a deep wound may undergo oxygenation and become bright like arterial. Bleeding from the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa of the penis, or from like tissues consisting of cavernous blood-spaces or numerous small arteries and veins, is sometimes spoken of as parenchymatous hw7norrhage. When haemorrhage occurs in a visceral cavity, as the pleura or peritoneum (internal limmorrhage)^ or into the substance of the tissues of the trunk or extremities [extravasation), it is known by special signs, and is treated of elsewhere. Constitutional effects of hcemorrhage.—The effect upon the constitution of course varies according to the amount of blood lost, and is more marked when the blood is rapidly poured out from a large artery than when it escapes slowly from a small artery or from a vein. In the former case the patient may die in a few minutes of syncope. When the bleeding is less severe the face and general surface become blanched and cold, and the lips and mucous membrane pallid. The pulse is feeble, fluttering and rapid, and at length only to be felt in the