DISEASES OF REGIONS. 644 forms on both sides of the spine at once. In the cervical region the abscess will point in the pharynx {post- joharyngeal abscess), or in the neck. Process of cure.—Under favourable circumstances the granulation-tissue undergoes ossification without the pro- duction of any deformity; but after the deformity has taken place, and the vertebrae above and below the disease have come into contact by the falling forward of the upper portion of the spine, the destructive process, if the parts are kept at rest, may cease; and firm osseous ankylosis, but with a permanent angular curvature, will ensue. Symptoms.—In the early stages, before the angular deformity is produced, pain is felt on percussion over the diseased vertebra, or better on the head of the rib in connection with it, or on gently pressing on the shoulders or tapping on the head or on applying hot sponges to the spine. Pain also is felt in the course of the intercostal nerves and hence in the case of the lower intercostals may be referred to the abdomen. It is increased on movement; hence the spine is held stifily by the muscles. The move- ments of the child are characteristic. If asked to pick up anything he does not bend his back, but placing his hand upon his knee to support his spine, reaches the ground by bending his legs and holding his back straight. If asked to turn round he rotates the whole body, not the back. He walks about supporting his spine by resting his hand on the various portions of furniture, and soon gets tired of play, and is noticed to lie about on the floor. In older patients tingling or numbness may be complained of in the extremities, and a feeling as if a cord were tied tightly round the body. Later, a prominence of one or more vertebrae occurs, and the nature of the disease can no longer be doubted. If neglected, the prominence increases, and the well-known angular deformity is pro- duced. Now, especially if the disease is high up the spine, some loss of motion in the lower extremities occurs, and may progress to complete paralysis of motion. Sensa- tion is not usually affected, as the posterior columns, being remote from the disease, escape. Nor are the bladder and rectum usually implicated. If an abscess has not already formed, and especially if the disease is moderately low down, one may now present in the loin {lumbar abscess), in the iliac fossa {iliac abscess), or in the groin {psoas abscess). The first gives rise to a fluctuating tumour between the last rib and the crest of the ilium just ex-