553 STRABISMUS AND OCULAR PARALYSIS. where the chief meridians are unequally myopic (com- pound myopic astigmatism) or unequally hypermetropic (compound hypermetropic astigmatism); or (c) mixed^ where one chief meridian is hypermetropic and the other myopic. The treatment is by cylindrical glasses for simple astigmatism, and by cylindrical glasses in com- bination with spheficals for compound and mixed. Presbyopia.—Prom 40 to 45 years of age it is found in all eyes, owing to changes in the elasticity of the lens, that the ciliary muscle begins perceptibly to lose its power of altering the convexity of the lens. The effect of this will be to prevent near objects being focussed on the retina; in order to counteract this condition and to help the ciliary muscle it is necessary to give convex glasses for reading. It has been found that the glass needed is about one dioptre for every five years after 40. In myopes wearing glasses for reading, this amount will have to be subtracted from their glasses. X. Strabismus and ocular paralysis. Strabismus {squint) is always present when the two eyes are ;iiot directed simultaneously towards the same object, and is usually accompanied at some time by double vision {diplopia). Strabismus occurs from over-action, weakness, or paralysis of one or more of the extrinsic ocular muscles. It is usually convergent or divergent, but may be upward or downward. It may be constant or occasional {'periodic)^ and though usually one eye alone squints, yet sometimes both eyes may do so in turn {alternating). When the squinting eye follows its fellow normally in all its movements the squint is called con- comitant in contra-distinction to paralytic. Diplopia is much more marked in paralytic than in concomitant squint. The non-squinting eye is called the fixing eye, and strabismus may be estimated by telling the patient to look at an object about two feet away with the fixing eye, and then taking the distance between the middle of the palpebral aperture and the middle of the cornea of the squinting eye {primary squint); on now making the squinting become the fixing eye the amount of deviation of the original fixing eye is taken {secondary squint). In paralytic cases the secondary squint exceeds the primary, but it is equal to the primary in concomitant squint.