FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. 451 The inner fragment projects prominently under the skin; the shoulder droops forwards and downwards; the patient usually supports his elbow with the sound hand whilst he inclines his head to the fractured side to relax the sterno- mastoid. In a fat child, however, especially when the fracture is of the greenstick variety (Fig. 136), which it often is in children, the signs are less evident; indeed surgical aid is often not sought until the mother's atten- tion is called to the part by the presence of a lump formed by the ensheathing callus. tJnion generally occurs in about three weeks in children and five in adults. Treat- ment,—The fracture is easily reduced by drawing back the shoulders, or by placing the patient in the recumbent posture; but it is very difficult to maintain the fragments in apposition. Hence the numerous bandages and appa- ratus that have been from time to time employed. Where Fia. 136.—Grreenstick fracture of the clavicle. (Holmes' System.) it is important to avoid deforrdity, rest on the back for a fortnight is essential; otherwise the patient may be allowed to get about with his arm bandaged to the side, and the parts kept as much as possible in apposition by bandaging or strapping. Of the many plans the following may be tried. 1. Bayre's method.—Take three pieces of adhesive strap- ping about three inches and a half wide, and long enough to surround the arm and afterwards the body. Stitch one piece, with the adhesive surface outside, loosely round the arm on the injured side at the insertion of the deltoid muscle. Draw the arm forcibly backwards to put the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major on the stretch, and carry the strapping across the back and round the front of the thorax and sew the end to the part which crosses the back (Fig. 137). Fix one end of the second strip of plaster to the sound shoulder; carry it obliquely across the back beneath the elbow (which should be pushed forwards) of the injured side, a slit being made to receive G G 2