DISEASES OE EEGIONS. 632 in front of the posterior border of the jaw to avoid the external carotid artery, and parallel to the facial nerve. Paeotid tumours may begin in the parotid gland itself, or, as is perhaps more often the case, in one of the lymphatic glands situated over it. They have a great tendency to displace or destroy the parotid, and to extend deeply amongst the important structures behind the ramus of the jaw, where they may surround the carotid arteries, or even encroach upon the pharynx. In struc- ture they may be fibrous, myxomatous, cartilaginous, sarcomatous or carcinomatous. The tumour, however, most common in the parotid region consists of cartilage intermixed with fibrous tissue, with atrophied glandular elements, and often with mucous tissue. The cartilage which so frequently exists in parotid tumours is believed to be derived from the elements of the rudimentary foetal structure concerned in the development of the lower jaw, and known as Meckel's cartilage. Cysts are very rare, but cystic degeneration of the solid tumours is not in- frequent. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The differential diagnosis of the various parotid tumours cannot be here attempted. Nor is it of consequence, as it is often impossible before removal to determine their exact nature. The practical points for the Surgeon to consider are:—Is the growth innocent or malignant ? Can it be safely removed P Innocent tumours grow slowly, and are at first freely moveable, smooth or slightly lobulated, circumscribed, hard and firm or semi-elastic; but as they increase in size they may become soft or fluctuating in places, either from mucoid softening or cystic degeneration. The skin over them, though stretched and thinned, is non-adherent, and the glands are not affected. Malignant tumours, on the other hand, grow rapidly, are ill-defined in outline, generally soft or semi-fluctuating, and become firmly fixed to the surrounding parts ; the skin is adherent, purplish- red, brawny, infiltrated with the growth, and later ulcerated ; and the lymphatic glands are enlarged. An innocent tumour, however, after having grown slowly for many years may suddenly take on rapid growth and malignant characters. Treatment.—When the tumour appears innocent, of moderate size, and freely moveable, indicating that its attachments are not deep, there can be no question about its excision. But v/hen of very large size, especially if