503 FUNGOIJS TUMOURS. ossified; next, at the root of the nose, between the frontal and nasal bones ; but it may occur in any situation in the course of the sutures, and even project into the nasal fossae or pharynx. Symptoms.—In the occipital region these tumours are generally pedunculated and of large size—sometimes nearly as large as the child's head; at the root of the nose they are usually small and sessile. The skin covering them is generally normal. They swell up when the child cries, and can be completely or partially reduced on pressure, the reduction producing convulsions or other brain symptoms. When they contain fluid only (meningocele) they are soft, fluctuating, translucent, and completely reducible on pressure; they rarely pulsate, and are generally pedunculated. "When they contain brain- matter (encepJialocele) they are doughy, non-fluctuating, opaque, and only partially reducible; they pulsate, and are usually sessile. They may be mistaken for other tumours of the scalp, but especially for congenital der- moid cysts and degenerate neevi. However, their intimate connection with the bone, their situation in the course of the sutures, and their partial and complete reducibility, together with the facts that they swell up on expiratory efforts, and occasionally pulsate synchronously with the brain, will usually ser^'e for their diagnosis. Further, the hole in the skull may at times be detected and brain symptoms be produced by pressure. Treatment,—As a rule they should be left alone, or merely supported by a pad and bandage. A meningocele, when pedunculated, and apparently communicating with the interior of the cranium by a small aperture only, may be injected with Morton's fluid, or under exceptional circumstances excised. Fungous tumours, generally of a sarcomatous nature, and springing either from the tissues of the scalp or pericranium, or from the diploe or dura mater and then penetrating the bone, are occasionally met with, and may be mistaken for inflammatory affections of the pericranium or bone, or for syphilitic gummata. Their rapid growth, resistance to syphilitic remedies, the escape of blood only on puncture, and the concomitant loss of weight and strength of the patient, will usually serve to distinguish them; but an exploratory incision may in some cases be neces- sary to clear up the diagnosis. Secondary tumours which pulsate and have the structure of thyroid-gland tissue, are also very occasionally met with in cases of malignant goitre. Treatment.—WheTe there is no evidence of dis-