DISEASES OF REGIONS. 530 puncta or canaliculi is to employ probes or electrolysis, and if these metliods fail, to slit up the lower canaliculus by a Weber's knife, removing a piece of the conjunctiva from the inner side of the incision with scissors. For stenosis of the nasal duct probes should be used to dilate it, and in many cases the use of styles for some time is advisable. In acute inflammation of the sac an incision should be made from the outside through the swelling, or the lower canaliculus should be slit up, and the pus, if found, evacuated that way; the sac should afterwards be syringed with antiseptic or astringent solutions. II. Diseases of the Conjunctiva, OoNJUNCTiyiTis {Ophthalmia), or inflammation of the conjunctiva, is characterized by a feeling of grittiness, heat, and heaviness of the lids, which tend to stick together, especially at night, injection of, and small haemorrhages from, the posterior conjunctival vessels, and generally discharge from the eye. 1. Catahehal {muco-purulent) Conjunctiyitis may be acute or chronic; it presents the usual symptoms of conjunctivitis (see above), and is often accompanied by more or less muco-purulent discharge. It occurs in epidemics, and if there is much discharge, is contagious. There is often marked enlargement of the conjunctival follicles, especially of the lower lid (follicular con- junctivitis). Occasionally the discharge is more plastic in nature, adhering to the lids {^pseudo-membraneous conjunctivitis). It is best treated by slight astringents or antiseptic lotions, and by ointments placed along the edges of the lids to prevent their sticking together. In chronic cases the refraction should always be tested, as re- fraction errors, especially hypermetropia, may produce this condition. 2. Purulent Conjunctiyitis is an acute affection characterized by the severity and rapidity of its onset. It is microbic in origin, and the specific organism is frequently the gonococcus. It may be conveniently divided into two classes :— I. Adult Purulent Conjunctivitis {Gonorrhoeal Oph- thalmia) the more serious affection, is due to actual contagion with the virus, and usually first affects only one eye. The period of incubation may be only a few