143 DISEASES DUE TO SEPTIC PHOCESSES. example, converting a simple fracture into a compound one. Such mischief can only be prevented by the greatest watchfulness and care. DISEASES THE RESULT OF SEPTIC ATO INFECTIVE PROCESSES IN WOUNDS. The diseases included under this head may be divided into two chief classes, the septic and the infective. The SEPTIC are such as depend upon putrefaction or fermentation, whereby certain chemical products, known collectively as ptomaines, are formed and set up local inflammation, and if absorbed into the sj^stem through the blood- or lymph-channels, give rise to fever and other constitutional symptoms known as blood - poisoning. These chemical products are believed to be of the nature of alkaloids, and to act on the tissues locally, or on the whole system if absorbed, as intense irritants, and in a manner similar to that in which known alkaloidal bodies do. Thus, they do not multiply in the body, and the effects to which they give rise are proportionate to the dose absorbed; and as soon as the putrefactive or the fermentative processes in the wound, or the a.bsorption of their products, are prevented, the local inflammation and the constitutional symptoms cease. The poison is non- infective : that is, if an animal is inoculated with the blood of another suffering from a septic disease, the disease is not transmitted. Neither is there evidence of one patient being able to infect another. Micro-organisms are not discovered in the blood or tissues during life, nor immediately after death. The INFECTIVE diseases, on the other hand, depend upon inoculation with a virus, of the nature of micro- organisms, or of an unorganized ferment produced by them in some at present unknown way. The poison, whatever its nature, is believed to thrive and multiply in the tissues or blood; the effects produced, therefore, are not proportionate to the dose, the smallest quantity intro- duced into the system being sufficient after a certain incubative period, during which the poison is multiply- ing, to set up local or constitutional effects. The infec- tive micro-organisms may be divided into two chief classes : (1) the non-specific^ or the pyogenic micrococci, which, if admitted into the wound, may merely set up local suppuration, or if introduced into the system may,