534 DISEASES OE HEGlO^T^. placed in the eye once or twice a day, and massage employed to the surface of the closed lid. (b) The infective ulcer tends to spread rapidly at its edges and also in depth; it is often accompanied by hypo- pyon (pus in the anterior chamber) and then is generally microbic in origin. The best treatment is the actual cautery or solid nitrate of silver applied to the edges and base; the evacuation of the pus in an adult by tapping the anterior chamber from below; and the local appli- cation of belladonna or atropine. 2. Interstitial keratitis is usually associated with congenital syphilis, sometimes with struma, and occasion- ally with acquired syphilis. The whole cornea undergoes a subacute or chronic inflammation, and at first looks steamy and then patchy and like ground glass; the patches usually become vascular [salmon patches), but there is no tendency as a rule to superficial ulceration or suppura- tion. After some months the eye begins to clear up under treatment, even in very bad and apparently hopeless cases. Though as a rule one eye is attacked first, the other after a few weeks or months generally becomes affected. The usual age is between five and sixteen. The attendant complications are iritis, secondary glaucoma, uveitis, and in very bad cases shrinking of the eyeball. After an attack there are to be found generally nebulae in the cornea and always the remains, at the corneal periphery, of the vessels of inflammation. The treatment is usually the administra- tion of small doses of mercury over a long period, or iron tonics, and locally atropine and yellow oxide of mercury ointment. 3. Keratitis Punctata is probably never present without disease of the uveal tract (page 538). It is characterized by the presence of dots of different sizes on the epithelium of Descemet's membrane. These are generally arranged in the lower half of the cornea in the shape of a conical bullet with the apex upwards. The dots may be proliferations of the posterior corneal epi- thelial cells, or granules &c., deposited on the epithelium. The results of keratitis are often to be found in the cor- neal tissue as small branching lines (remains of vessels), greyish opacities (nehulce), and dense opaque white patches (leukomata). The use of lead lotion in keratitis is especially prone to give rise to leukomata, and should therefore never be used in this disease. In cases of perforating ulcer, the iris may become adherent to the cornea, a con-