INJURIES OE REGIONS. 474 flex—bend out or abduct—roll out or rotate outwards. The bead is tbus compelled to revolve round a centre formed by tbe great trochanter, which is held in position by the outer branch of the Y ligament. In the thyroid (Fig. 154) the thigh should be flexed and slightly ab- ducted, then rotated forcibly inwards and adducted, and brought down parallel to the sound thigh. The head is thus made to retrace its steps towards, and re-enter the acetabulum, the Y ligament being wound up, as it were, and so put on the stretch. In the puUc the reduction is accomplished in a manner similar to that employed for the thyroid. 2. Reduction hy traction with the limb in the flexed posi^ tion.—The flexion of the limb has for its aim the relaxing of the Y ligament and other ligaments and tendons that impede reduction, and then drawing the head of the bone directly into its socket. In the dorsal dislocation the thigh should be flexed at a right angle to the body and traction then made in an upward direction, slightly adducting and rotating inwards to disengage the head from behind the acetabulum. Oounterpressure may. be made, if necessary, by the Surgeon placing his unbooted foot on the anterior iliac spine whilst drawing or jerking the limb upwards. If on flexion it is found that the limb cannot be abducted beyond the perpendicular with the body, the hole in the capsule is probably too small to allow of the head being replaced. It may readily be enlarged by circumducting the flexed thigh outwards across the abdomen. The pulleys may be used if more force is required,' the patient then being laid on his sound side and counter-extension applied to the pelvis by a leather band secured to the wall; or the patient may be placed on his back, the pelvis secured to the floor, and the pulleys attached to a staple in the ceiling. In the sciatic the same method should be adopted, as the flexion frees the head of the bone from the tendon of the obturator internus which winds round its neck, aiid together with the Y ligament, which is also relaxed by flexion, is the chief obstacle to reduction. In the thyroid the limb should be flexed and abducted, and the head of the bone drawn towards the socket, counter-pressure being made, if required, by the unbooted foot on the pelvis. The pulleys may also be employed in this position if more • force is required. In the pubic the limb should be flexed on the pelvis, whilst the head is drawn down towards the