4 EPIPHYSITIS. 257 favourable circumstances the inflammation may assume a septic character, and the abscesses around the joint burrow widely among the muscles and other soft tissues. Or the periosteum or the medulla of the bones may become involved in the septic inflammation, and ex- tensive caries or necrosis ensue. The septic products may become absorbed, and the patient die of sapraemia or pyaemia, or suppuration may continue and death result from hectic or lardaceous disease. Signs,—The disease may begin like an ordinary attack of synovitis, but the pain soon becomes intense and agonizing on the least movement, the heat more marked, and the skin often covered by a blush of redness. The swelling at flrst takes the form of the synovial membrane, but soon becomes general, and the joint assumes a flexed position. In the meantime the constitutional disturbance is severe, the temperature high, the pulse rapid, the tongue furred, and a chill or rigor may perhaps occur. Painful startings of the joint now set in, in consequence of the reflex irritation of the muscles; abscesses form and make their way to the surface, and burrow in the tissues around; and the joint-surfaces become displaced from each other (Fig. 69). After the abscesses have opened, the inflammation may subside, probably leaving the joint stiff; or the patient may die of septic poisoning or of exhaustion. The treatment at first should be similar to that of acute synovitis; but should suppuration set in, the joint must be freely opened and antiseptically drained, and all abscesses that have formed around treated in the same manner. When e:^ectual drainage cannot be secured continuous irrigation or immersion in a hot bath may be tried. If septic poisoning or exhaustion threaten life, amputation must be performed. ^ Epiphysitis is an inflammation of the soft growing tissue between the shaft and the epiphysis; it is therefore necessarily confined to the young, and is of most frequent occurrence under the age of ten. It may be acute, sub- acute, or chronic, and may or may not involve the neighbouring joint. The epiphyses most often affected are those of the hip, knee, and shoulder, but several may be implicated at the same time, or one after the other in rapid succession. Cause. — Slight injuries, tubercle, infective micro- w. s