I TBEATMENT OF CARIES OF THE SPINE. 647 I room, &c. Por such patients some form of support, not I only to restrain as much as possible the motions- of the I spine, but also to allow them to obtain a certain amount of j fresh air, is generally necessary. 2. The supports most in use at the present day are Sayre's plaster-of-Paris case and Cocking's poroplastic felt jacket, though some Surgeons still prefer steel instruments. The plaster-of- I Paris case may be applied with the patient either in the upright position, suspended with his heels just off the ground by Sayre's tripod, or in the recumbent position by Davy's hammock apparatus. A skin-fitting vest having I been previously applied, and a line drawn across the back ; with a pencil at the level of the axillae to indicate the upper limit of the jacket, crinoline bandages, impregnated I with plaster of Paris, are wound round and round the trunk till a sufficient thickness is obtained, dry plaster being from time to time rubbed in with the hands. The case should reach from the pencil line to just below the crest of the ilium, stopping short of the great trochanter and the pubes, and may be strengthened, if necessary, in I places by inserting strips of perforated tin vertically between the bandages. Before applying the bandages, a folded silk handkerchief should be placed over the abdo- men beneath the vest, so that when afterwards withdrawn space will be left for abdominal respiration (Sayre^s sto- mach-pad). "When the plaster case is dry it may be sawn through down the front, removed, and the fronts edged with leather, and perforated with eyelet-holes, so that it can be worn laced up, and be taken off from time to time. To apply the poroplastic felt, the jacket, which is first made to measure, must be put in a steam oven, and when ren- dered thoroughly plastic, further moulded to the patient, who should be prepared and suspended in the same way as for applying plaster of Paris. Of steel instruments, I that known as Taylor's is perhaps the best. In my own I practice, however, I almost invariably employ the poro- I plastic jacket. Where the disease is in the cervical or - I upper dorsal region, Say re's j ury-mast may be fitted to the j plaster-of-Paris case or poroplastic jacket; or a cervical . I collar composed of leather or poroplastic felt may be used, I or better, the combined poroplastic jacket and collar de- j vised by the author. Should an abscess form, it should i be treated in the way described under Chronic Ahscess. ! In some cases where necrosis has been associated with i caries, success has attended the removal of the sequestrum I i