408 INJURIES or REGIOISS. there has been no wound of the skin. It forms a soft, crepitating, resonant swelling, which can be made smaller by pressure, and generally becomes more prominent on forced expiration or coughing. On listening over it a harsh vesicular murmur is heard. The treatment consists in protecting it with a properly-shaped pad or leather shield moulded to the part. For an account of such complications di.^ Pleurisy, Pneu- monia^ Hcemopericardium^ Pericarditis, and Mediastinal Abscess, a work on Medicine must be consulted. Operations on the cke^t,—Tapping the pleura should be done when the effusion is serous without admitting air, either with the aspirator or with the syphon-trocar and cannula. The spot usually selected is the sixth intercostal space in the mid-axillary line. A small in- cision is first made through the skin, which should be drawn down on the rib so that the wound may be valvular. The needle of the aspirator or the trocar and cannula is then thrust into the pleural cavity. The fluid should be allowed to escape slowly, and its flow stopped for a minute or so if coughing occurs. The instrument must be withdrawn should any blood become mixed with the fluid. The wound should be closed with a pad of anti- septic gauze. Incision and drainage of the pleura may be required for empyema, the removal of putrid clots, &c. The incision may be made in the sixth intercostal space in the mid- axillary line, or in the ninth or tenth space in a line with the angle of the scapula. An anaesthetic should be given, and a careful dissection made between the ribs down to the pleura, or a director may be thrust through the muscles into the pleural cavity and the wound suffi- ciently enlarged by passing a dressing forceps along the director and forcibly opening the blades. A drainage- tube should then be inserted. If the space between the ribs is insufficient a piece of a rib may be excised. The wound should be treated antiseptically, and if pus again collects a counter-opening may be made. Thoracoplasti/ or Estlander^s operation consists in re- moving a portion of several of the ribs, for the purpose of allowing the chest-walls to fall in, in cases of empyema where, after the pleura has been drained, the lung in consequence of adhesions does not expand. An incision three or four inches in length may be made obliquely downwards and inwards over the side of the chest, just in