720 DISEASES OE REGIONS. always to be examined, since should tubercle in tbe lungs be discovered no operation should be done, unless the tubercle is in quite an early stage. The urine should also be tested for albumen, and the absence of stricture or cancer of the rectum determined. Operation,—A director should be passed through the fistula into the bowel, and its point hooked down and brought out at the anus by the index finger, which has been passed up the rectum. The bridge of tissue, which sometimes includes the external sphincter, is then divided by running a curved bistoury along the director. The upward prolongation of the fistula beyond the internal opening (Fig. 276) should next be laid completely open into the cavity of the bowel. A careful search should now be made with a probe for all secondary fistulse or lateral sinuses and these laid freely open. The lining membrane of the fistula should next be destroyed by scoring it with a bistoury, or scraping it with a Yolk- mann's spoon, as otherwise the fistula is apt to re-form. The wound should finally be filled with iodoform wool, and a pad and T-bandage applied. The bowels should be kept confined for about four or five days with small doses of opium, and then relieved by castor-oil or an enema. The wound should be dressed daily with iodoform wool lightly pressed into it to ensure its healing from the bottom. When the opening is very high up, a stout ligature may be passed and made to cut its way out, the fistula healing behind it. But as this takes a long time, it is better to reduce the fistula in this way to reasonable limits and then divide it. The Mind external and the hlind internal should as a rule be converted into complete fistulse by forcing in the former case a director up the fistula into the bowel, and in the latter by cutting through the skin on the point of a bent probe hooked into the internal opening and made to project under the skin. Both are then treated as a complete fistula. In some cases of blind external fistulse a free T-shaped incision will suffice without cutting through the sphincter or entering the rectum. Polypi generally occur as pedunculated growths springing from the submucous tissue, usually of the lower part of the rectum. They vary in size from a pea to a cherry, and in colour from white or pale pink to a deep red. The two chief forms are (1) the soft or vascular which shew microscopically an adenomatous structure with at times some amount of myxomatous