OYARIOTOMY. 827 te be distinguislied from pregnancy, tympanites, encysted dropsy of the peritoneum, tumours ^ of the omentum, subperitoneal cysts and tumours, fibroids of the uterus, pelvic heematocele and abscess, extra-uterine pregnancy, and a distended - bladder; but the differential diagnosis cannot be attempted in a work of this character. Having, ^however, determined that the disease is an ovarian cyst, the' next poitit to make out is whether it is unilocular or multilocular ; free or adherent. The muUilocular cyst is usually irregular; fluctuation is absent, or more marked in some parts than in others; and there is no thrill or fluctuation waVe on percussion, unless one of the cysts has attained a preponderating size. The unilocular cyst is smooth, rounded, regular, and elastic; fluctuation is felt equally over the whole tumour; and the percussion thrill or wave is equally distributed over the whole of the dull area. If adhesions are present the cyst is fixed, unless they take the form of elongated bands, in which case a friction rub or sound may be felt or heard. The umbilicus moves' with the cyst; but no movement is detected on examination by the rectum or vagina. If there are no adhesions the cyst moves on respiration, but the umbilicus does not move with the cyst, and the cyst is not found fixed on examination by the rectum or vagina. Such are the^chief points to be attended to; but often the signs are-delusive, and where a tumour is expected to be of a unilocular character and free, it may be found to be multilocular or solid and extensively adherent to the neighbouring parts. Treatment.—The only effectual treatment is to remove the tumour by the operation of ovariotomy, an operation which, though formerly attended with a high rate of mortality, may now be said to be one of the most suc- cessful of the major operations in surgery. Eepeated tappings, and tapping and injecting with tincture of iodine, have now very rightly almost ceased to be em- ployed, although tapping may still at times be called for under exceptional circumstances, which cannot here be discussed. Before ovariotomy is undertaken, however, the patient should J)e very carefully prepared by attention to the bowels and kidneys, any congested condition of the latter being relieved by aperients, diaphoretics, warm baths, and the administration of citrate of potash, lithia, &c. OYAjiiOTOMy.—The patient having been ^ell wrapped