10 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE SUEGICAL DISEASES. COCCUS. The spores wliicli are developed in tlie interior of the bacillus are liberated by its destruction and then gradually assume the shape of the fully developed organism. The spores have a greater resistance to ex- ternal influences, heat and chemicals, than the bacillus from which they are formed. The sjpirilli are of no surgical interest, and will not be further mentioned. Both bacilli and micrococci may be divided into (a) sapro- phytic, and (h) parasitic bacteria. (a) The saprophytic bacteria only live on dead organic material or in solutions of the same, and are incapable of thriving in the living tissues. Some species by means of the activity of their protoplasm not only obtain food from the dead organic material and multiply, but cause changes in the fluid in contact with their surface known as fer- mentation. To this is due the decomposition of serum or of pus retained in a wound, the conversion of milk-sugar into lactic acid in the souring of milk in the stomach, and the resolution of urea into carbonate of ammonium and consequent production of ammoniacal urine in the bladder. The albumen of the dead organic material in contact with the bacteria becomes decomposed into peptones and then into ptomaines or chemical compounds, which act as irritants in the living tissues, setting up inflammation, or, if absorbed, give rise to symptoms somewhat similar to those produced by the poisonous alkaloids. The short rod-like body always present in myriads in a drop of decomposing fluid was formerly known as bacterium termo, or the bacterium of putrefaction. Within the last year or so it has been shewn that these rod-like bodies are not capable of pure cultivation, and that not one but many species of bacilli were confounded under the term. Most of these bacilli have been but imperfectly investigated and are consequently still unnamed. For the present therefore it appears better to drop the name bacterium termo, and to speak of the bacilli of putrefaction merely as saprophytes until their nature has been determined and definite names have been given to them. Other species of saprophytic bacteria, instead of setting up fermentation, produce pigment, as for example the bacillus of blue or green pus. Many of the saprophytes, as already mentioned, require oxygen of the air for their development, and are then called aerobic; whilst others only thrive when protected from access of oxygen and are known as anaerobic.