TJREATMEOT OF STRAT^GULATED HERNIA. 687 femoral kemia, and five minutes for a large femoral, inguinal, or umbilical hernia. It should be remembered that the taxis is more successful in recent than in old femoral hernise; in inguinal than in femoral, and espe- cially in old inguinal under chloroform; and that when successful it is the safest method of overcoming the strangulation. The taxis should not be applied—1, when other Surgeons have already employed it for long periods; 2, when the hernia is very tense, tender, or inflamed; 3, in femoral hernia where feecal vomiting has existed for some time, or where hiccough has supervened;—m short, whenever it appears questionable whether the intestine has not passed into a condition beyond recovery, or whether actual gangrene has not taken place. The hot hath is more likely to succeed in acute than in chronic cases, in young muscular patients, and in inguinal hernise. It should not, as a rule, be given to the old or feeble, as it has then a tendency to induce severe syn- cope, and renders them liable to take cold. Little can be expected from it in femoral hernia on account of the fibrous and unyielding nature of the ring. The operation.—Herniotomy or kelotomy has for its object—1, the liberation of the strangulated intestine or omentum by dividing the stricture, and 2, the returning it into the abdomen if proper or possible. The parts having been shaved and thoroughly cleansed with soap and water and sponged with some antiseptic lotion, an incision should be made over the sac in the long axis of the tumour, and its coverings carefully and successively divided till the sac is exposed, any bleeding vessels being- tied. The sac may be known by the arborescent arrange- ment of its vessels, its tenseness and smoothness, and when thin by intestine, omentum, or fluid being seen through it. It may further be distinguished from the intestine by the shining appearance of the latter, by the circular arrangement of the intestinal vessels, and by a little fluid usually escaping when the sac is opened. If • still in doubt, the questionable structure should be picked up with the thumb and fore-finger if not too tense, when, if it is sac, the intestine will be felt to slip away. Before opening the sac, every antiseptic precaution in the widest sense of the term should be taken. All bleed- iug should be stopped, and the wound, the Surgeon's hands and those of his assistant and the instruments should be thoroughly cleansed from blood with antiseptic