DISEASES OF KEGIONS. 546 hypodermic injections of strychnia, and galvanism, but the prognosis is as a rule very bad. Retinitis, or inflammation of the retina, is usually accompanied by diminution of vision, especially at night or in dim lights, and is characterized ophthalmoscopically by loss of transparency and haze of the fundus; soft white discrete or grouped spots ; haemorrhages of various sizes and shapes (striated or flame-shaped in nerve-fibre layer, large and semicircular in yellow spot region), and by vitreous opacities. Retinitis is associated with syphilis, nephritis, glycosuria, leukaemia, pyaemia [purulent reti- nitis) and with diseases of the circulatory system (lioemor- rhagic retinitis). The treatment is chiefly constitutional, and the eyes must be shaded and used as little as possible. Retinitis pigmentosa is a chronic and symmetrical disease, occurring in early life, characterized by night blindness, and great contraction of the fields of vision, even though the central vision be normal, Ophthalmo- scopically the optic disk is "waxy-looking" and atro- phied, the retinal arteries are small, and there is much lace-work retinal pigment, especially near the equator. The loss of sight is progressive, and the disease often ends in blindness. Embolism oe the central aetery of the retina occurs usually on the left side and in connection with heart disease. Owing to this artery being a terminal one complete plugging of it is followed by total and sudden blindness. The ophthalmoscopic signs are pale optic disk, diffused retinal haze, bright red colour at yellow spot, and retinal arteries near disk very small and like white threads. The treatment is massage of the eyeball but the prognosis is bad. Detachment of the retina is due to separation of the retina from its pigment epithelium by haemorrhage or serous exudation. It is accompanied by defect in the field of vision corresponding to the detachment. With the ophthalmoscope the detachment looks greyish, and the retinal vessels passing over it are seen to be elevated. The causes are blows on the eye, myopia, cicatrices following wounds, choroidal tumours, &c. Treatment^ except complete rest, is usually unavailing. Glioma of the retina occurs in early life, and the first symptom is a shining white or yellow reflex seen behind the pupil; by focal illumination there is found a nodulated swelling, with small vessels and often haemor-