195 INJURIES OF JOIOTS—DISLOCATION'S. capsule may not heal, but remain as a permanent hole with smooth edges, allowing the head of the bone to slip in and out of its socket. In some instances, moreover, the inflammation may run into suppuration, which may be followed by ankylosis of the joint. The impediments to reduction are:—In recent cases :— 1. The spasmodic contraction of the muscles surrounding the joint. 2. The small size of the rent in the capsule. 3. The hitching of points of bone on each other; and 4. The interposition of ligaments, tendons or muscles. In old-standing cases :—1. The formation of adhesions around the displaced bone. 2. The closure of the rent in the capsule. 3. The permanent shortening of the liga- ments and muscles ; and 4. The alteration of the shaj^e of the articular surfaces, in part from absorption and in part from the formation of new bone. The contraction of the muscles generally increases from the time of the accident; hence every hour the dislocation remains unreduced the more difficult the reduction becomes. The consequences of non-reduction are either the forma- tion of a new joint, or ankylosis, the former being more common in ball-and-socket joints, the latter in hinge joints. When any movement between the dislocated bones exist, the osseous surface on which the displaced bone rests is converted into a new articular cavity by a process of absorption of the old bone, and the formation of new bone around; the end of the displaced bone becomes adapted by a similar process of absorption to its new socket; and the soft tissues around become condensed so as to form a kind of new capsule. The old socket in the meantime becomes more or less obliterated, its ar- ticular cartilage absorbed, and its cavity filled up with fibrous tissue or new bone. The range of movement in the newly-formed joint will at first be limited, but in the course of time under appropriate treatment will be- come much more free, and a very fairly useful limb may be obtained. When on the other hand the dislocated bone is immoveably fixed upon another, the articular car- tilage is absorbed, the contiguous osseous surfaces unite, and bony ankylosis is said to ensue. The muscles, more- over, from want of use undergo shortening or partial atrophy and fatty degeneration, leaving the limb in a more or less shrunken and wasted condition. Treatment. —The indications are :—1. To replace the articular surfaces in contact; and 2. To keep them there o 2