44 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SUEGICAL DISEASES. the like. Althougli these may,, act by directly killing the tissues of the part, their action is often aided by inflam- mation, as seen for instance in a crushed foot, where both the injury and the subsequent inflammation determine the death of the member, 2. Inflammation causes gangrene in part by the pressure of the inflammatory exudation and the thrombosis of the vessels cutting o£E the nutritive supply, and in part by the action of the irritant causing the inflammation. The latter is especially the case in the septic and infective inflammations, the noxa here being either the products of putrefaction [^ptomaines) or micro-organisms, especially the streptococcus pyogenes. Some inflammations always terminate in gangrene, as carbuncle and malignant pustule. The manner in which micro-organisms act in producing gangrene is not deter- mined, but it is believed to be due to the peptonising action of their products on the tissues. 3. OhstrucUon to the arterial supply^ as from ligature of the main artery, embolism, thrombosis or rupture of the artery supplying the part, and spasm of the arterioles due to long ingestion of ergot. 4. Obstruction to the capillary circulation from thrombosis or pressure. As examples of this may be men- tioned, bed-sores from pressure of the part between the bed and a point of bone; the death of the skin and bone in cellulitis and periostitis respectively from compression of the capillaries by the inflammatory effusion; local sloughing from the pressure of a splint or a new growth; cancrum oris from thrombosis of the capillaries, &c. 5. Obstruction to the venous return as seen in strangulated hernia, paraphimosis, tight bandaging, &c. Obstructed venous return, however, is generally associated with ob- struction to the arterial supply as well. The Signs of gangrene vary considerably according to the cause. The general symptoms in the acute inflamma- tory form have already been given in the outline of the process (p. 41). Those of the special forms will be further mentioned under varieties of gangrene and elsev/here, as in the section on Cancrum oris, &c. The Treatment, like the symptoms of gangrene, depends so much upon the cause and nature of the gangrene, that its details can only be given under the special varieties. Here, however, it may be said that the general indications for treatment, whatever the variety, are—(1) To remove where possible the cause, as a tight bandage constricting a limb, putrefactive processes in wounds, tension, pressure,