LUPUS. 351 brane, muscle, cartilage, in fact everything except bone. The favourite seat of lupus vulgaris is the face, especially the ala of the nose; but it may attack the skin and mucous membrane of almost any part. It is more common in females than in males. Prom tubercular syphilis, the affection for which it is perhaps most likely to be mistaken, it may be distinguished by the age at which it began, the history of the case, and the absence of concomitant signs of syphilis. Treatment.—The lupous patch should be thoroughly scraped with a Yolkmann's spoon, the scraping being con- tinued as long as any soft lupoid material comes away, and until the tissues feel hard and resisting to the spoon. The actual cautery, or some form of caustic, is then by some applied to the raw surface, but it is not necessary. The wound should be dressed with iodoform or other antiseptic, and healing is quickly accomplished with comparatively little scarring. Internally, cod-liver oil, arsenic, or the phosphate or the iodide of iron, may generally be given with advantage. Lupus erythematosus is a chronic inflammation of the sebaceous follicles and surrounding connective tissue. Pathology .—The capillaries of the follicles become dilated, and the tissues intiltrated with small round cells. The follicles then become enlarged and distended with seba- ceous material, which exudes and forms greasy scales on the surface of the lupous patch. These scales, on removal, are found continuous with the plugs of sebaceous mate- rial filling the follicles. Later, the follicles are destroyed, and the infiltrating cells converted into cicatricial fibrous tissue. The cause is unknown, but it is believed to depend neither on syphilis nor on tubercle. It has not been proved to be hereditary, and it is not contagious. Signs.—It begins most commonly on the cheeks or nose in the form of one or more erythema-like red patches, which fade momentarily on pressure, and are often attended with itching. The patches become covered with greasy scales continuous with the sebaceous matter in the enlarged follicles. They usually spread by their slightly raised edges, leaving dry, pale, depressed scars in their centre, which are productive of considerable deformity, but ulceration does not occur. The disease is nearly always symmetrical, affects most commonly the cheeks and nose, less commonly the ears, scalp, lips, backs of the hands and fingers, and after an apparent cure is liable to a