TERMINATIOKS OF ANEURYSM. 293 from the unequal yielding of their walls. The walls themselves, though' sometimes thinned, are more often thickened, and are highly atheromatous. Laminated fibrin is seldom found in them, as the circulation does not as a rule become sufficiently retarded to allow of its deposition. 2. A sacculated aneurysm is one in which dilatation occurs in part of the circumference of the artery only {Fig. 79, B, c, and d). It may consist of all three coats; but much more often the internal and middle coats give way, and it is formed of only the external coat, or after it has existed some time, chiefly of condensed cellular tissue around. According as all three coats are or are not present, the aneurysm was formerly spoken of as true or false. As, however, it is only the smallest aneurysms that can consist of all three coats, the true aneurysm could hardly be said ever to occur, and all sacculated aneurysms were then called false—the absurdity of which is self- evident. As these aneurysms increase in size, the sac comes to consist almost entirely of the tissues around. Whilst they are still enclosed by one of the coats of the artery, they are sometimes called circumscribed, and after all the coats have given way, consecutive or diffused (Fig. 79, f). As the term di:ffused, however, is sometimes applied to a leaking or ruptured aneurysm, it had better be dis- continued. Nearly all sacculated aneurysms, when they have existed some time, are of the consecutive variety, and usually contain a considerable amount of laminated fibrin, 3. A dissecting aneurysm is one in which the internal coat of the artery and part of the middle coat have given way, and the blood has been forced between the two layers of the middle coat for a variable distance parallel to the course of the artery (Fig. 79, e). It is most frequent in the arch and thoracic portion of the aorta. The blood may remain between the layers of the middle coat, or it may escape through a rupture of the external coat into the tissues around, or through a rupture of the internal coat lower down the course of the vessel into the lumen of the artery. Terminations.—An aneurysm may terminate in spon- taneous recovery or in death. I Spontaneous recovery may take place:—A. By the gradual deposit of fibrin from the blood in a laminated manner on the walls of the sac, so that the aneurysm is completely con-