854 DISEASES OP REGIONS. 4. In talipes valgus or flat-foot the longitudinal and transverse arches of the foot are flattened and the anterior part of the foot is more or less everted. Though rare as a congenital, it is very common as an acquired deformity, and as such is, perhaps, most often due to the yielding of the ligaments of the sole and the relaxed state of the muscles which normally support the plantar arches, in consequence of general debility and want of muscular tone, combined with long standing or carrying heavy weights. Hence its frequency in growing and under-fed lads, errand-boys, policemen, waiters, housemaids, and the like. Amongst other causes may be mentioned rheu- matism, gonorrhoea, rickets, sprains of the plantar liga- ments, and spasm or paralysis of certain muscles of the leg. The calcaneo-scaphoid ligament and plantar fascia, and to a less extent the other ligaments of the sole, are elongated, and the bones on the inner side of the foot, instead of form- ing an arch, are depressed and in contact with the ground. The bones in front of the transverse tarsal joint are at the same time more or less everted, leaving the head of the astragalus, which is itself depressed, partly exposed on the inner side of the foot. In severe, and generally in congenital cases, the heel and front of the foot are drawn up by the tendo Achillis and the anterior muscles respectively, whilst the outer border of the foot is raised from the ground. The acquired form is often productive of so much crippling and pain as to render the sufferer unable to follow any employment which necessitates much standing or walking. The foot (Fig. 330) looks broader and longer than natural, the sole is flat, the inner border in contact with the ground, and the internal malleolus depressed ; whilst two prominences, formed by the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the partially exposed head of the astragalus, can be seen and felt projecting on the inner side of the foot. In slight cases the foot can be made to assume its natural form on manipulation or on standing on tip-toe, but in severe cases it is rigidly fixed in the deformed position. Pain and stiffness of the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe [Hallux dolorusus) is a common concomitant of flat foot in boys and young adults. 5. In talipes cavus the sole is unnaturally arched and the plantar fascia is tense. The toes are often extended at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and flexed at the first interphalangeal joints, giving them a clawed appearance