ONYCHIA—BOILS. 347 promoted by exercise and good food, and the local by stimulating liniments, tbe parts being kept warm by woollen gloves or socks. When the chilblain is broken, it may be dusted with iodoform, or dressed with oxide of zinc or soap-plaster. Arsenic internally appears some- times of service. Onychia, or onychia maligna as in severe cases it is sometimes called, is a chronic unhealthy inflammation of the matrix of the nail, attended with ulceration and a foetid purulent discharge. It is most frequently met with in strumous children as the result of a crush of the finger or some slight injury; but it may depend on syphilis, or more rarely on eczema or psoriasis of the matrix, or its inoculation with the parasite of ringworm. In a typical case the end of the affected finger is swollen and inflamed and of a dusky or livid red colour, whilst the nail is blackened, shrunken, loosened from its matrix, sur- rounded by a crescent of unhealthy ulceration, and bathed in a very foetid discharge. It is exquisitely tender to the touch. In severe cases the ulceration may extend to the bone and neighbouring joint, and the last phalanx be lost. Treatment, — The nail, if black and shrivelled, should be removed by forceps, the wound powdered with iodoform or nitrate of lead, or dressed frequently with a lotion of liquor arsenicalis or nitrate of silver. In strumous subjects appropriate constitutional remedies must be given. If there is a suspicion of con- stitutional syphilis, the part should be dusted with calomel, or dressed with blackwash, and mercury or iodide of potassium given internally. In some in- veterate cases it may be necessary to scrape or shave away the matrix of the nail, or destroy it with caustics. FuEUNCiJLUS, or BOIL.— A boil is a circumscribed inflammation of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, terminating in gangrene of the central part, which is then cast off in the form of a slough, popularly called the core. Boils generally occur in crops, one coming out after the other has healed; or several small boils form around a larger central one. They are usually situated on the neck, nates, back of the hand, and back. Though most common in the young, they may occur at all ages. The causes are numerous. As predisposing may be men- tioned change of habit, a too exclusively meat diet, diabetes, albuminuria, alterations in the blood depending on acute disease, the emanations of sewer gas, change of