PRIMARY VENEREAL SORES OR CHANCRES. 799 cutaneous or cutaneous surface of tlie organ. They usually begin as a small pustule or slight excoriation within a few days of inoculation, and when fully established, appear as small oval ulcers, with sharply-cut edges and a slightly depressed base covered with a greyish slough, and surrounded by a red areola of inflammation. When irri- tated, as by the rubbing of the clothes, or the retention of the secretion beneath a long prepuce, they may become indurated; but the induration has not the sharply- defined character of the syphilitic sore. The inguinal glands become enlarged {huho), and matted together into a single mass, often of considerable size, and have a marked tendency to suppurate. The pus taken from them apparently contains the same micro-organism as that of the sore, since when inoculated on the same or another person, a similar sore is produced. Diagnosis,—The main differences between a non-infect- ing or soft sore, and an infecting or hard, are the following : —The soft sore is generally unattended with induration ; in the hard the induration is well marked; the soft occurs within a few days of inoculation, the hard not till after three to five weeks ; in the soft the secretion is abundant and purulent, in the hard scanty, and often consists of little more than epithelial debris; the soft can be re- inoculated on the same patient, and hence is frequently multiple; the hard cannot be re-inoculated on the same patient, and hence is single unless, as very rarely happens, the patient is inoculated in two places at the same time. The bubo following the soft sore is single, soft, and very liable to suppurate; that following the hard sore is multiple, hard, and shotty, and very rarely suppurates. A patient, however, may be inoculated with syphilis at the same time that he receives a soft sore. Hence, when the incubative period of syphilis has passed, the soft sore may take on the characters of the hard sore. Till this period is ov-er, therefore, a cautious prognosis as to the probable occurrence of secondary symptoms should be given. It is consequently not uncommon to find a patient with a chancre which presents characters both of the hard and soft sore. Treatment,—Local treatment only is necessary, and con- sists in scrupulous cleanliness, protection of the sore from irritation, and the application of blackwash, zinc lotion, or iodoform. Should the glands become inflamed, rest in the recumbent posture is essential. If suppuration threatens,