SPECIAL ANEURYSMS. 311 Orbital aneurysm.—Several conditions may giye rise to the group of symptoms to wliich the name '' orbital aneurysm" has been applied. In only one instance has the existence of a circumscribed aneurysm in the orbit been verified by an autopsy. In the other cases that have proved fatal the following conditions were found :— 1. Thrombosis of the cavernous sinus. 2. Communica- tion between the carotid artery and cavernous sinus. 3. Dilatation of the carotid artery. 4. Aneurysm of the ophthalmic artery within the cranium. The general symptoms are:—pulsation over the whole or part of the orbit; protrusion of the eyeball with loss or impairment of sight; more or less pain; and a loud bruit which can also often be heard by the patient himself. The differen- tial diagnosis of the several conditions producing these symptoms is one of great difficulty and cannot be entered upon here. Treatment.—The symptoms have been known to subside spontaneously. Where they have not done so ligature of the carotid has been attended with the best results. Injection of perchloride of iron has been re- commended, but I should hesitate to use it myself for fear of venous thrombosis and embolism. "Where the pulsation has followed a punctured wound of the orbit it has been advised to extirpate the globe and secure the bleeding vessel in the orbit. In a case of the kind recently under the care of my colleague, Mr. Power, ligature of the common carotid was attended with perfect success. Axillary aneurysm is not uncommon as the result of sprains, or of attempts to reduce long-standing disloca- tions of the shoulder. The diaqno sis^ as a rule, presents no difficulty except the aneurysm has become diffused, when it may be mistaken for abscess. Treatment.—1. When the aneurysm is spontaneous, small, and well- circumscribed, pressure or ligature of the third part of the subclavian should be practised. 2. When more or less diffused, as when the result of an injury to the artery in the reduction of a dislocation, the aneurysm should be cut down upon, the clots turned out, and the vessel secured above and below. If this operation is decided on, an incision should be made over the subclavian artery through the skin and fascia, so that pressure may be made on it more directly, and the circulation through the aneurysm during the subsequent operation better controlled. A small incision is then made over the