64 OENEEAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. crasy, in that they are violently salivated by a grain or two of the drug. Mercury may be given, 1, by the mouth; 2, by inunction; 3, by fumigation; and 4, by subcutaneous injection. It is, as a rule, perhaps, best given by the mouth, either in the form of a pill or mix- ture. As a pill, the green iodide in doses of |^ a grain to 2 grains, combined with ^ to J of a grain of opium to prevent purging, may be given two or three times a day, or the mercury and chalk powder in doses of from 2 to 3 grains, or calomel or blue-pill may be substituted for it. As a mixture, tKe perchloride in doses of ^ to ^ of a grain, combined with ammonia, is very useful. The green iodide possesses an advantage, in that the iodine prevents an accumulation of mercury in the system. Where mercury given by the mouth causes much irrita- tion of the bowels, it may be used in the form of an inunction, half a drachm to one drachm of mercurial ointment being rubbed into the inner part of the thigh or the axilla night and morning, the parts being thoroughly washed every day to prevent the ointment accumulating in the sweat ducts, &c. This is a rapid way of bringing the patient under the influence of the drug, as is also fumigation with calomel or other preparation of mercury, though this latter method may be followed by violent salivation. Subcutaneous injection appears to possess no special advantages over the other methods except perhaps in obstinate tertiary nerve lesions, and is apt to cause sores or abscesses at the point of puncture. The effects of the mercury should be judged by its action on the primary sore and secondary affections. Under its influence the induration of the sore rapidly disappears, and the rash fades. It should never be pushed beyond causing a slight soreness of the gums, the formation of a red line on their free margin, and tenderness on biting. Should salivation occur, the mercury should be imme- diately stopped, a gentle purgative given, the mouth rinsed with a gargle of chlorate of potash, and iron taken internally. The mercury should also be intermitted for a few weeks or so at a time if symptoms of depression come on. During the mercurial course the patient should avoid chills and abstain from alcohol, fresh fruit, and food liable to disturb the digestion and set up diarrhoea. The mercurial course may with advantage be continued for a year or more, and on its termination iron, tonics, and cod-liver oil should be given, whilst change of air