170 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF IN JURIES. believed to influence its production, and where tetanus occurs, as it sometimes does, independently of a wound, are regarded by some as the essential cause. It is more probable, however, that these conditions merely act as depressing agents, and that the micro-organism in these cases gains admission through a scratch or abrasion which has been overlooked, or by absorption through the unbroken mucous or cutaneous surface. Tetanus is inoculable from animal to animal, and probably from animals to man, since a veterinary surgeon has lately died of tetanus after making a post-mortem examination on a horse dead of the disease. Pathology,—But little is discoverable on post-mortem examination. At times the nerves leading from the wound have been found congested, at other times unaltered in appearance. Hypersemia of the medulla and cord, exuda- tion in, and degeneration of the grey matter, and haemor- rhages in the white columns, have been noted in some cases; whilst in others nothing abnormal in the nerve- centres has been discovered. The older vieiv of the pathology of tetanus is that the disease depends upon a primary lesion of the peripheral nerves, and that the irritation thus produced is conveyed by the injured nerve to the nerve-centres, where it becomes persistent and continuing after the real cause has been removed, gives rise to muscular spasm in various parts of the body. The modern view is that the disease is due to a specific virus which affects the medulla and cord in a way similar to strychnine. The virus is believed to be a chemical com- pound of the nature of a ptomaine or an albumose (tetano- toxalhumen, tetano-toxin), and to be usually generated in a wound by the growth of the tetanus bacillus. When no wound exists, it is further believed that the virus may gain admission by absorption through the unbroken mucous or cutaneous surface. It is only quite recently that an absolutely pure culture of the bacillus has been obtained. It is drum-stick shaped when sporing, anaerobic, and rapidly loses its virulence on exposure to air. It has been found in the surroundings of horses, the floor of stables, and in ordinary earth, thus serving to explain the frequency of tetanus in the wounded who have been allowed to lie on the ground after battles. The horse is merely looked upon as an intermediary as is the cow in connection with tuberculosis. It has also been found in soil taken from beneath the floor of hospital wards in