DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 314 stmcted, or an embolus be readily impacted; 2, the artery being unsupported by muscles, and in contact with tbe bone; 3, the strain on the artery in the movements of the knee-joint; 4, the compression that may be exerted on the end of the artery by the strong fascia of the soleus muscle. A popliteal aneurysm is not usually difficult to diagnose; but should it become diffused, suppurate, or break into the knee-joint, it may be mistaken for a malig- nant tumour of the bones, an abscess, or an affection of the joint. The history of the case, the consideration of the diagnostic signs of aneurysm already given, and the introduction of a grooved needle into the knee when blood has been effused into the joint, will usually clear up any doubt as to the nature of the affection. Treatment.— Little need be added here to what has already been said on the general treatment of aneurysm, as such especially applies to aneurysm in this situation. Flexion, combined with appropriate medical treatment, is often successful; and digital and instrumental compression are especially applicable to this aneurysm, or an Esmarch's bandage may be used if preferred. These methods failing or not being considered advisable, the popliteal in the upper part of its course or the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle should be tied. The operation of tying should be done at once under the following circumstances:—1. When the aneurysm is rapidly increasing in size, leaking, or threaten- ing to burst. 2. When the aneurysm is inflamed but has not suppurated. 3. Under some circumstances when it has burst into the knee-joint. 4. When the limb is oedematous, showing that the vein is being seriously com- pressed. 5. When the patient is of an irritable disposi- tion, addicted to alcohol, and impatient of control. Amputation, on the other hand, is, as a rule, called for.— 1. If the aneurysm has burst; 2. If gangrene has set in; 3. If suppuration attended with profuse haemorrhage has occurred ; and 4. If the knee-joint is disorganized. LIGATUHE or APvTERIES. The ligature of arteries requires a knowledge of their relational anatomy and of the position and appearance of the various structures which serve as guides to them. Such a knowledge can only be gained in the dissecting- room, and by the frequent practice of operations on the