845 DtJCT CABCIKOMA OP THE BREAST. to a very slight extent, the tumour not adherent to the pectoral muscle, and the glands are not felt enlarged, or if enlarged are not hard, free removal of the breast and, in the last case, clearing out the axilla is imperatively called for. 2. Where, on the other hand, the skin is extensively inhltrated, the tumour is firmly adherent to the pectoral muscle, the glands are enlarged, hard, and adherent to the side of the chest, enlarged glands can also be felt above the clavicle and perhaps have already caused oedema of the arm, marked cachexia is present and there is evidence of dissemination of the carcinoma in other organs and tissues—then no operation should be performed. In cases such as the above, there can be little question as to the propriety of operating or not operating. But there are a large class of intermediate cases in which some Surgeons would, and some would not, operate. Much will then depend upon the presence or absence of pain, and each case must be judged on its own merits. Medullary carcinoma is much less common in the breast than the scirrhous form, and generally appears at an earlier age. It occurs as a soft, non-encapsuled, compact, white or blood-stained, brain-like mass infil- trating the gland and surrounding tissues. Its growth is much more rapid than the scirrhous variety, and it sooner involves the skin, pectoral muscles, and axillary glands, and rapidly becomes disseminated through in- ternal organs. Early and free removal of the whole breast, and of any glands in the axilla that may be felt enlarged, is the proper treatment. Other varieties of carcinoma in the breast, as the so- called villous, or duct cancers, and the colloid, require only a brief notice. D UCT CARCINOMA occurs as one or more rounded masses lying in the breast tissue not far from tlie nipple. On section these masses appear as red, encysted and definite tumours. Microscopically they consist of cysts, often con- taining blood, and into which papillary growths, covered by columnar epithelium, sprout. The growths have an alveolar structure, and closely resemble, especially when the disease has recurred, ordinary encephaloid carcinoma. The nipple is not retracted, but there is usually a history of a discharge of blood from it, often before a tumour is noticed. The skin is not infiltrated, the axillary glands are not enlarged, and secondary deposits are very rare. The tumour is firm and elastic, and may contain one or more