389 FOREIGK BODIES IK THE PHARYKX. sionally occur from the inhalation of flame, as in a gas explosion or from the clothes taking fire; scalds are more common, especially among the children of the poor, from drinking boiling water or inhaling steam from the spout ol a tea-kettle. In neither of these injuries is the oesophagus as a rule involved. In the case of burns the flame sometimes appears to be drawn through the larynx into the trachea. The boiling water is generally ejected from the mouth and nose, and only aflPects the entrance of the larynx. Both burns and scalds owe their gravity to the fact that they are frequently followed by oedema- tous laryngitis. The scalded and white appearance of the mucous membrane and the history of the case generally make the diagnosis plain. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in bed in a warm room and carefully watched for signs of oedematous laryngitis. Should such supervene, the swollen mucous membrane at the entrance of the larynx may be scarified; but if this does not at once relieve, an O'Dwyer's tube should be jDlaced in the glottis, or tracheotomy performed. In the slighter cases the application of a hot sponge to the larynx, the administration of small doses of antimony, tincture of aconite or calomel, or mercurial inunction may be tried. Charring and other chemical lesions from drink- ing corrosive liquids, strong acids, or alkalies, are not uncommon. The effects vary according as they are taken intentionally or accidentally. In the former case, the larynx usually completely escapes, whilst the mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach, may be extensively injured. In the latter case, the fluid, on the discovery of the mistake, is expelled forcibly, and some of it thereby generally enters the larynx and nasal cavities, but little passes down the oesophagus. Here, as in burns and scalds, the chief danger to be apprehended is oedematous laryngitis. For an account of the effects that may follow swallowing corrosive fluids, the student is referred to a work on Forensic Medicine. It need only be remarked here that should the patient recover from the immediate dangers, he may subsequently come under the care of the Surgeon for stricture of the oesophagus, due to the cicatrization following the injury. Foreign bodies in the pharynx and oesophagus.— Fish-bones, coins, false tooth-plates, and portions of food, are the bodies most commonly impacted in the pharynx