588 DISEASES OE REGIONS. away, otherwise the upper jaw must be partially or com- pletely removed. Where the tumour is solid, and of an innocent nature, and entirely confined to the antrum, it may be removed by excision of the superior maxilla, but as a rule no more of the bone should be taken away than is absolutely necessary, the orbital plate and hard palate being preserved if possible. When the tumour arises behind the bone, there is often great difficulty in getting it away, as its attachments may be more extensive than is imagined. If thought advisable to attempt its removal this may be done by excising the superior maxilla, and clearing away the growth; or the maxilla may be turned outwards, the growth removed, and the bone replaced [LangenhecWs method). When the growth is malignant and confined to the antrum, the superior maxilla may also be excised; but when it has invaded the surrounding parts, it becomes not only a question whether it can be completely got away, but whether the immunity from its return will not be too short for the patient to undergo the risk of the operation. Complete excision oe the upper jaw. — Having extracted the central incisor tooth on the diseased side, make an incision down to the bone in the direction shown by the dark line in Fig. 214. Dissect back the flap thus marked out from the bone, securing the larger arteries as they are divided. Make a longitudinal incision through the mucous membrane lining respectively the floor of the nose, and roof of the mouth as far back as the soft palate, and then a transverse one along the junction of the soft with the hard palate on the diseased side. Now pass one blade of the long jaw-forceps into the mouth and the other into the nose, and divide the alveolar process and hard palate; cut through the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and then through the malar bone, carrying the forceps into the spheno-maxillary fissure. Seize the bone with lion forceps, and wrench it away from its remaining attachments. The internal maxillary, or any other large artery, should be tied, and haemorrhage from smaller vessels restrained by plugging the wound with strips of iodoform gauze. When the bleeding has stopped, any growth that may remain should be cut away or destroyed with the actual cautery. Unite the edges of the wound with horse-hair sutures, and the lip with hair-lip pins. Healing occurs readily and with little deformity. An