TERTIATIY SYPHILIS. 63 infiltration of the skin and mucous membrane {tubercular syphilide) terminating in serpiginous ulceration; 3, gum- matous swellings in the subcutaneous and submucous tissue which may break down, forming deep ulcers the cicatrization of which causes severe contractions, as for instance those seen in stricture of the pharynx, glottis, and rectum; 4, gummata in the muscles; 5, gummata in the tongue, producing scarring and ulcers apt to terminate in epithelioma; 6, affections af the nervous system leading to paralysis.; 7, affections of tha arteries leading to embo- lism or aneurysm ; and 8, gummata, followed by contrac- tion and fibroid changes in the liver, lungs and other vis- cera. The various tertiary lesions will be further described under diseases of the special tissues and organs; for those affecting the lungs, liver, kidneys, and nervous system, a work on Medicine must be consulted. Here it must suffice to say that the tertiary lesions are usually asymmetrical; that they are not, as a rule, contagious; that they are chronic in their course; and that they often prove fatal by affecting important organs, as the lungs or brain, or by causing constriction of a passage, as the larynx or rectum. The treatment of syphilis necessarily varies according to the constitutional condition of the patient and the stage of the disease. The primary sore requires no other local treatment than the application of iodoform or black-wash and protection from irritation. Some, however, still ad- vocate its destruction by caustics or complete excision, and further recommend removal at the same time of the nearest indurated glands. The majority of Surgeons have 'regarded such treatment as useless, believing that the induration of the primary sore is merely an indication that the disease is already established in the constitution. Moreover, excision has repeatedly failed to prevent the occurrence of secondary symptoms. At the recent Inter- national Congress at Berlin, however, the consensus of opinion was in favour of the possibility of aborting the disease by an early excision. ConstUutionally, mercury in some form is by the majority of Surgeons thought to be necessaiy in all cases, it must, however, be given with caution to strumous and tuberculous subjects, and to persons whose constitution is impaired by dis- sipation, alcohol, or bad living. It should be with- held ^in chronic Bright's disease; nor should it be for- gotten that some patients exhibit a peculiar idiosyn-