DISEASES OF REGIONS. 674 liver, if it does not present in the wound, and bring it to the surface if practicable. Pack the wound with sponges to prevent any fluid escaping into the peritoneal cavity, and introduce an aspirator-needle into the gall-bladder, which, as the fluid escapes, should be well drawn into the wound. Enlarge the opening in the gall-bladder and remove any gall-stones found loose. If a stone is found impacted in the cystic duct, extract it, if possible, by forceps, by gentle manipulation with the fingers in the abdomen, by careful crushing with padded forceps, by breaking it with a needle passed through the wall of the duct, or by chipping off fragments as it lies in the duct. Secure the edges of the aperture in the gall-bladder to the abdominal wall by sutures, with its peritoneal coat well in contact with the parietal peritoneum; leave a drain- tube in the gall-bladder ; and close the rest of the abdo- minal wound in the way already described. The biliary fistula thus left will close in a few weeks if the cystic duct has been cleared. Cholecystectomy, or extirpation of the gall-bladder, may be required: 1, where perforation following suppura- tion and ulceration has occurred, and the coats are, found too softened to admit of suture; and 2, where chole- cystotomy is indicated, but on opening the abdomen the gall-bladder is found so contracted that its fundus cannot be drawn into contact with the abdominal walls without tearing it. Make an incision similar to that for chole- cystotomy, prolonging it or dividing the muscles trans- versely a little below the ribs if more room is required. Having well packed the wound with sponges to prevent blood escaping into the general peritoneal cavity, dissect the gall-bladder from the liver, clamping or tying any bleeding vessels, divide the cystic duct between two liga- tures, cleanse the wound, remove the sponges, and unite the abdominal walls in the usual way. Pylobectomy, gastro-enterostomy, duodenostomy Ara JEJUNOSTOMY.—Pylorectomy, or removing the pylo- rus for carcinoma, was formerly done by uniting the severed duodenum to the stomach by suture. Now the cut ends of the stomach and duodenum are usually sewn up by a continuous Lembert suture, and the stomach united to the duodenum or the jejunum by Senn's plates (Pig. 256). Gastro-enterostomy, or forming a fistula between the stomach and small intestine to allow fluids to pass out of the stomach, is employed where the disease of the pylorus