264 DISEASES OP SPECIAL TISSUES. dications for the local treatment are similar to those for tubercular disease of the joints generally, but require certain modifications in the methods of carrying them out. Thus if the symptoms are acute the patient should be placed in bed, and extension made by the stirrup, weight and pulley in the direction in which the joint is displaced, the limb being gradually brought down in this way to a straight position. If the child is restless a long splint should be placed on the opposite limb to keep him from rolling to one or other side, whilst the foot of the bed should be raised by blocks to prevent him slipping down, or Bryant's double splint may be used with great advan- tage in some cases (Fig. 164). Subsequently, or at once in subacute cases, a Thomas's splint (Fig. 65) should be applied, and after the limb has been brought into the straight position, the patient may be allowed to get about on crutches. If in spite of treatment, the disease pro- gresses and pus forms, early incision and drainage with the injection of iodoform-glycerine emulsion, the excision of the head of the bone and scraping away of the diseased tissues, or in very intractable cases amputation at the hip joint may become necessary. One advantage of early incision is that the pus in some cases may at first be outside the joint, being dependent upon disease about the great trochanter, lower end of the neck or upper end of the shaft, and so extension to the joint may be avoided. Disease of the sacro-iliac joint also requires a separate, brief notice. It is generally of tubercular origin, but is sometimes apparently due to injury. It usually occurs in young adults, rarely, if ever, in children. There is pain, swelling, and later redness over the joint, followed by the formation of abscesses which may open posteriorly or through the sciatic notch, above Poupart's ligament, in the ischio-rectal fossa, or in the rectum. The pain may be reflected along the sciatic nerve, simulating sciatica, or along the obturator nerve to the hip or knee, and may then be increased on moving the hip. The thigh, more- over, in consequence of the irritation of the psoas, maybe slightlv fle xed. The disease may thus have to be diagnosed fromhip-disease and spinal caries. On fixing the pelvis, however, the hip and spine move freely and without piin, but pain is felt on making pressure inwards or outwards on the iliac crests or over the sacro-iliac joint. When sinuses have formed carious bone may sometimes be