STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 773 during straining, and be followed by extravasation of urine. 2. The bladder, in consequence of its efforts to expel the urine, becomes thickened from hypertrophy of its muscular coat. The mucous membrane may become in- flamed and thickened; or owing to the pressure of the urine may be protruded through the muscular fasciculi, forming sacculi, in which stale urine may collect or a calculus form. 3. The ureters become dilated, their muscular coats hypertrophied, and their lining membrane sometimes inflamed. 4. The kidneys become disorganized, in part from the backward pressure of the retained urine and in part from the spread of inflammation from the bladder up the ureter to the pelvis. See Diseases of Kidneys, p. 725. Symptoms.—A gleety discharge, increased frequency of micturition, and perhaps, some pain in the act, twisting or forking of the stream, or the escape of a few drops of urine after the stream has ceased are early signs of stricture. Then the stream gets gradually smaller, and is passed with increasing difficulty and straining till finally the urine may only be voided drop by drop, or complete retention may set in. In some instances an attack of retention is the first sign of the disease. In neglected cases the straining may produce piles or prolapse of the rectum ; or cystitis may be set up and the urine become ammoniacal and turbid from the presence of pus and mucus; or the bladder may become over-distended, and the urine dribble involuntarily away. This condition of over-flow should be carefully distinguished from incon- tinence (see p. 761). At first there are usually no con- stitutional symptoms; but as the obstruction begins to tell on the bladder and kidneys, dyspeptic troubles are developed; the patient loses weight, his countenance becomes anxious, he suffers from chilliness and occasional rigors, from pain in the loins, and later, from feverish attacks and unmistakable signs of kidney mischief. Thus a stricture which in itself, if kept properly dilated, is not a serious disease, becomes so when neglected and chronic bladder and kidney trouble is allowed to be set up. It may then end fatally from an intercurrent attack of acute cystitis or nephritis, or from extravasation of urine and its consequences occurring during an attack of retention.