763 DISEASES OF THE PBOSTATE. I growths. When from the urethra it may be due to {a) i injury, (I) gonorrlioea or chancre, (c) erectile growths, j {d) calculus, (e) rupture of the corpus spongiosum in ! chordee or sexual interoourse. Diagnosis.—Blood from the urethra comes before the urine, is frequently pure, and may continue flowing I between the acts of micturition. From the bladder or prostate, it generally comes after the urine, or the urine contains more blood at the end than at the beginning of micturition ; it is often clotted from remaining some time in the bladder, and the urine then is of a porter-like colour. From the kidney it comes with the urine, with which it is intimately mixed (smoky urine). The urine may then contain blood-casts of the renal tubes, or when it comes from the ureter, fibrinous casts of the ureter. The treatment resolves itself into remedying where possible the cause (see Diseases of Kidney, Bladder, &c.). When clots have collected in the bladder, they may be washed out with a stream of water; but when they are decomposing, it may be necessary to open the bladder through the perineum and remove them. DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. Acute peostatitis.— Causes.—Generally gonorrhoea, or stricture of the urethra; less frequently cystitis, im- pacted calculus, and passage of instruments. Occasion- ally in gouty subjects it appears to occur idiopathically. Symptoms.—Micturition is frequent, and attended with pain, especially at the end of the act ; there is throbbing and continuous pain in the perineum and neck of the bladder, and pain during defsecation. When examined by the finger in the rectum, the prostate is found hot, swollen, and painful, and the passage of a cathether causes great pain. The febrile disturbance which accompanies it, is perhaps ushered in by rigors. Terminations.— Eesolution, abscess, or chronic inflammation. Treatment,' —Six or more leeches to the perineum; hot hip-baths ; hot poultices to the perineum; and a purgative at the onset, followed by alkaline medicines. A catheter is only to be passed if there is retention of urine. Abscess oe the prostate is generally preceded by acute inflammation ; but chronic abscess may be produced by catheterism in chronic enlargement of the organ.