TUMOURS OF THE LOWER JAW. 589 obturator with false teeth, should subsequently be fitted to the mouth. Partial excision of the upper jaw usually consists in leaving the orbital plate, and is done by dividing with a key-hole saw the front wall of the antrum along the margin'of the orbit, and completing the operation as above described. Besection of the upper jaw {LangenhecFs operation) consists in turning the maxillary bone outwards so as to get at a tumour behind it, and then replacing the bone. As the connections of the bone along its outer part are left intact, its vascular supply is not com- pletely cut off, and it soon forms fresh adhesions when placed back in position. Tumours of the lower jaw, like those of the upper, may be cystic or solid, innocent or malig- nant. Cystic tumours^ as in the upper jaw, may be developed in connection with an uncut tooth [dentigerous cyst), or around the fang of a decayed tooth. They are then unilocular. Multilocular cystic tumours have a marked predilection for the lower jaw. They are pro- bably due to invasion of the jaw by epithelium from the gum. The epithelial masses undergo degeneration, leading to cysts often of con- siderable size. These tumours grow very slowly, and may gradually destroy the whole bone, reducing it to a mere shell, but if completely removed do not recur locally. They never affect the glands or become dis- seminated. The solid tumours may grow from the periosteum covering either the outer or the buccal as- pect of the jaw, or from the interior of the bone which they then expand around them. The osseous tumours usually take the form of exostoses, and are not uncommon about the angle of the jaw. The more regular shape of the lower jaw, its compact struc- ture, the absence of a cavity like the antrum, its more isolated condition, and the absence of surround- ing cavities like the nose, orbit, and spheno-maxil- lary fossa, make the diagnosis of tumours in it more Fm. 214.—Lines of incision for removal of upper and lower jaw.