DISEASES OF BtTRSJE. 285 often translucent, tense or flaccid swellings; their walls are but slightly thickened; and there is no heat or red- ness of the skin. 2. They may become enlarged, slightly thickened, and distended tvith a serous or dark fluid con- tcmiing small masses of fibrin resembling melon-seeds. These melon-seed bodies may be formed from extrava- • sated blood, fibrinous deposits, or detached portions of thickened synovial fringes, and their presence may some- times be detected by the crackling sensation they give when the bursa is handled. Sometimes in place of, or together with, melon-seed bodies, fibrous cords are found stretching across the cavity of the bursa. 3. They may become enlarged and their ivalls greatly thickeiied by inflam- matory inflltration, and the deposit of flbrin in their interior, A small central cavity may remain, or they may be solid throughout. They then appear as firm, non-elastic, solid-feeling tumours, and when situated over the tuberosity of the ischium, or in front of the patella, may cause much inconvenience. Treatment,—y^h^u simply enlarged, painting with the liniment of iodine, or strapping will sometimes disperse them. If this fails they should be punctured, the fluid evacuated, the melon-seed bodies, if present, squeezed out, and firm pressure applied. When greatly thickened or solid they must be dissected out. The situations in which these various conditions of the bursse are most frequently met with are: — over the patella, the housemaid^s knee; over the olecranon, the miner^s bursa; over the tuber ischii, the tueaver^s bottom or coachmarts bursa; over the great trochanter; under the semi-membranosus; and under the psoas tendon. Adventitious bursse may also be found under corns or over points of bone subjected to pressure, as the meta- tarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe {bunion), the outer side of the foot in talipes varus, &c. (See Hcdlux Valgus and Talipes.) The bursa patellce is the one which is most frequently affected, and what has been said about diseases of bursse in general applies particularly to it. When acutely and diffusely inflamed it may simulate disease of the knee- joint, from which, however, it may readily be diagnosed by the swelling in the one case being in front of the patella and in the other behind it. A few words may also be added concerning the bu7'sa beneath the send-membranosus. When enlarged it forms a tense or semi-fluctuating ovoid