296 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. spliygmograpllic tracing, if taken, shows the pulse is delayed on the diseased side and diminished in force, the tracing being less abrupt in its rise and more rounded (Fig. 82, b). On listening with the stethoscope, a bruit is heard in most cases. In consequence of pressure on the vein corresponding to the artery, there is often oedema of the part below, and sometimes varicosity of the superficial veins. In internal aneurysms, no tumour may be felt; the signs are then often obscure, and the diagnosis will depend upon the effects the aneurysm produces by pressing upon important parts. Thus, in thoracic aneurysms, there may be pain, dyspnoea, dysphagia, cough, aphonia, dilatation of the pupil on one side, enlargement of the superficial A Fig. 82.—Sphygmographic tracing of the pulse in an artery below an aneurysm (b) compared with that of the pulse on the sound side (a). (After Mahomed.) veins, and oedema of one arm; signs readily explainable by the pressure on the nerves, trachea, bronchi, oeso- phagus, and arteries and veins of the thorax. But for a more detailed account of the symptoms of internal aneu- rysm, a work on Medicine must be consulted. The signs of an aneurysm undergoing spontaneous cure are usually obvious. The tumour decreases in size, and the pulsation in it gets gradually less and finally ceases. At times a rapid cure may ensue ; the pulsation then ceases suddenly, and the tumour is felt to be hard, the patient often complaining of great pain at the moment of con- solidation. The signs of a leaking aneurysm, i.e., an aneurysm in which blood is beginning to be slowly effused into the tissues, are as follows :—The pulsation is less distinct, the outline of the tumour less circumscribed, the growth progressive, and the pressure-signs are more urgent. The signs of sudden rupture of an aneurysm, — 1. If the rupture is into a serous cavity, the signs are those of in- ternal haemorrhage, rapidly followed by death. 2. If into