HYDROPHOBIA. 165 the lympliatics. At times it. has occurred through a scratch which has been only licked by the affected animal, and once through making a post-mortem examination on a subject who had died of the disease. Of all persons bitten by rabid animals about 15 per cent, only suffer from the disease, a fact which probably in chief part depends upon the saliva being wiped off the teeth as they pass through the clothes. The most dangerous wounds are those on the face and hands, and on the bare legs of children, the average mortality of bites on the face being as high as 60 to 80 per cent. Multiple and lacerated wounds are naturally most to be feared, as inoculation in them is more likely to take place. Also the nearer the bite is to the central nervous system, the more easily and rapidly does the poison reach the brain and begin to take effect. Indeed the only certain method of producing the disease in animals is by inoculation under the dura mater. It was the discovery of this fact which enabled M. Pasteur to make his inves- tigations. The average period of incubation varies from two weeks to six months. Although it is said that the incubation period has been as short as two days, and as long as twenty years, two weeks to two years may practically be given as its limits. There are no symptoms during this period. The vesicles or lyssse said to occur under the tongue from the third to the ninth day after the bite do not appear to be a constant phenomenon. The virus has no influence on the healmg of the wound, the bite of a mad dog healing like other wounds, either by first intention, or if the tissues are badly lacerated, slowly and painfully. Seeing therefore that there are no symptoms during the incubation period, and that in the early stages of rabies there are no naked-eye post-mortem signs, the only way of ascertaining if the bite is that of a mad dog is to watch the animal. If the dog is killed at once the patient will suffer much mental anxiety. He must wait for three' weeks before the point can be determined by inoculation experiments on rabbits, or he may undergo Pasteur's treatment unnecessarily. Moreover, to wait three weeks may be too late for wounds of the face. Every suspected dog, therefore, should be confined in a strong cage. If mad he will show advancing ^symptoms, and die in three or four days. It is important, therefore, to recognize the symptoms of rabies in the dog.