DISEASES OP REGIONS. 838 for many years and then suddenly rapidly increase in size as the patient approaches the middle period of life. When occurring between the ages of thirty and forty they often grow rapidly from the first. Treatment.—^The slow-growing and more fibrous forms may be enucleated, but if in proceeding to do this the growth is found to be soft and succulent the whole breast should be excised, an operation that should invariably be undertaken when the tumour has grown rapidly. PuEE SARCOMATA.—All forms of sarcoma mixed with fibrous and adenomatous elements may occur in the breast, the large spindle-celled variety being the most common. Sarcomata are most frequent between the ages of twenty and thirty-five. They begin in the periacinous and peritubular connective tissue, and at first are always en capsuled, but later they infiltrate the surrounding parts and may perforate the skin and fungate. Their malig- nancy depends upon their structure, the round-celled and large-spindle-celled being highly malignant, the small- spindle-celled much less so; indeed the latter may recur again and again in situ before finally becoming dissemi- nated, or its tendency to recurrence may completely wear itself out. The small-spindle-celled is usually firm like the adeno-sarcomata, and on section greyish-white, smooth and succulent. The round-celled and large- spindle-celled are soft and elastic owing to their richness in cells and blood-vessels and their scanty amount of intercellular substance. On section they appear of ^ a pinkish-white colour, often blotched with blood, while cysts from hsemorrhages and mucoid softening sometimes occur in them. Symptoms.—The small-spindle-celled sarcoma can hardly be diagnosed before removal from the adeno-fibroma and adeno-sarcoma. The large-spindle-celled and round- celled varieties form smooth elastic tumours, oval or rounded in shape, and are lobed or bossed when cystic; whilst the veins of the breast are often enlarged and tor- tuous. They grow rapidly, and may perforate the skin and protrude as a fungus; but, unlike carcinoma, they do not infiltrate the skin or cause retraction of the nipple, and the glands are not usually enlarged. The tumour, moreover, is commonly larger than scirrhus, and the patient's age below that at which carcinoma is usually met with. The only effectual treatment is the removal of the whole