8 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. on mountains, and are especially numerous in large cities, hospitals, &c. It is not thought, however, that the inflammation is lighted up by the bacteria themselves, but , by the chemical products (sepsine, putrescine, saprine, &c.) / which are formed in the process of fermentation or putre- faction, and which soak into the surrounding tissues, acting like any irritant fluid or the poisonous alkaloids. For it has been found that when a fluid swarming with these bacteria {saprophytes) is injected into the blood or connective tissue of a living animal, the bacteria rapidly disappear without causing inflammation or other ill- effect. Again, if a similar fluid is injected into the peri- toneal cavity in such quantities only as to allow of its rapid absorption, no inflammation ensues. On the other hand, if such a fluid, or even water is injected in quantities more than can be rapidly absorbed, serum from the blood is eflused into it; and as all the essentials for putre- faction are now presest, viz., diluted serum which consti- tutes the dead animal matter, heat, moisture, oxygen, and saprophytic bacteria to act as a ferment, putrefaction ensues. The albuminous material becomes decomposed into peptones, and then into ptomaines, and these chemical products acting on the tissues set up inflamma- tion. Thus, to sum up, it is inferred from these and similar experiments that the saprophytic bacteria them- selves are incapable of setting up inflammation; that they are only able to thrive in dead animal matter, and not in living tissues; and that it is the products of putre- faction, of which they are believed to be the cause, that set up the inflammatory process. 3. Infective micro-organisms.—These, which include the various species of micro-organisms, known as pathogenic or parasitic bacteria, are also -believed to play an important rSle in the causation of inflammation. Indeed, they are believed by some pathologists to be the essential factors in all inflammatory processes. Bat whilst it cannot be admitted that they are the exciting cause of all inflam- mation, the belief is fast gaining ground that they are important, if not the chief agents in many inflammations, and especially in those inflammations which, because they occur without any apparent cause, were formerly spoken of as idiopathic. Thus erysipelas and some forms of osteomyelitis and periostitis appear to depend upon them, whilst malignant pustule has been proved to do so. They are said always to be found in acute suppurative