754 DISEASES OE REGIONS. Causes of death.—Deatb. may occur from 1. Acute nephritis; 2. Pyelitis; 3. Cystitis; 4. Perforation or rupture of the bladder; 5. Peritonitis; 6. Sapreemia or pyaemia, or 7. Exhaustion. But a fatal termination is rare except when there is some chronic kidney disease. Lithotomy, or cutting for the stone, may be per- formed through the perineum or above the puhes. Perineal lithotomy may be done in many ways; the lateral, as usually performed, and the median will only be described. Lateral lithotomy.—The patient should be prepared by rest in bed for a few days, and the rectum cleared by a mild purgative the day before, and by an enema on the morning of the operation. The bladder should contain five or six ounces of urine, or if the patient is unable to retain so much an equal quantity of warm water should Fia. 292.—Lithotomy knife. be injected. Anaesthetize the patient, introduce a full- sized staff with a groove on the left side into the bladder, and try to strike the stone. If the stone is not felt, with- draw the staff and pass a sound. If still unsuccessful, send the patient back to bed as the stone may have been passed per urethram or become encysted. If felt by the sound, re-introduce the staff, but do not operate until the staff itself strikes the stone that you may be sure that the staff has passed into the bladder, and not into a false passage. It is usual to ask an assistant to strike the stone also. Next, place the patient in the lithotomy position, i.e., with the soles of the feet secured in the palms of the hands by the lithotomy shackles, and bring his nates well over the end of the table. Entrust the staff to an assistant, who should hold it perpendicularly with its concavity hooked well up under the pubes and exactly in the middle line. Seat yourself in front of the patient, and having introduced the left forefinger into the rectum to make sure that it is empty, and to induce it to con- tract, enter the knife (Fig. 292) which should be held horizontally, a little to the left of the middle line and about an inch and a quarter in front of the verge of the anus, and carry the incision downwards and to the left to