390 and oesophagus. The situations at which they may become arrested, vary with the nature of the body. Fish-bones, pins, and the like, are easily caught in the loose folds about the tonsil and fauces, or may be impacted length- wise across the pharynx. Larger bodies, as false tooth- plates, coIds, &c., commonly become lodged about the cricoid cartilage. The symptoms and treatment vary according to the nature and size of the foreign body. A large portion of meat arrested over the entrance of the larynx will give rise to urgent symptoms of suffocation; and endeavours should be made to remove it instantly by the finger plunged into the throat. If this fails, laryngo- tomy should be done at once, and artificial respiration resorted to if the patient has already ceased to breathe. A fish-bone or pin may give rise to a pricking sensation with difficulty or pain on swallowing, and the patient will often be able to indicate the position where it has lodged. A search should be made for it in the mouth and throat, aided by the laryngoscopic mirror; but it must not be forgotten that the symptoms in consequence of the body having scratched the mucous membrane may persist even after it has been dissolved or swallowed. If in the tonsil or about the fauces, it may be removed with the dressing forceps, or it may be hooked out from the upper part of the pharynx by the finger nail. If a foreign body is beyond reach of the finger, an attempt must be made to extract it by pharyngeal forceps (Fig. 107) or by some of the various forms of coin-catchers (Fig. 108) , or the expanding horse-hair extractor (Fig. 109). If, after a thorough trial, with the patient under chloroform, these means fail, pharyngotomy must be performed, and the body removed through the opening in the neck. "When situated lower down the oesophagus, and it cannot be extracted by gentle means, it had better be left alone in the hope that it may become loosened in a day or two by ulceration, and be expelled or pass down into the stomach. Should this not occur, an endeavour may again be made to extract it, or to push it onwards into the stomach with the sponge probang (Fig. 108). In these manipulations the greatest care must be taken, as if the body is sharp the oesophagus may easily be lacerated. Eecently it has been shown that the oesophagus may be reached as it lies in the posterior mediastinum by cutting vertically midway between the scapula and spine, turning in the iliocostalis and resecting a portion of the third,