CYSTS—DERMOID CYSTS. 99 hydrocele of the spermatic cord developed in an unobli- terated portion of the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis, and certain broad ligament cysts developed from the parovarium. (See Testicle, &c.) 3. By the in- clusion of a blighted ovum in a part of the embryo. Such at least is the origin ascribed to certain cysts containing pieces of bone, cartilage, teeth, &c., occasionally found in connection with the ovary and testicle. Another form of congenital cyst, known as the cystic hygroma, is not uncommon. It consists of dilated lym- phatic spaces with a varying amount of fibrous, fatty and nsevoid tissue around, being almost solid or quite cystic according to the proportion of the solid elements. Hygro- mata occur in the neck, axilla, scrotum, &c. Their origin has not at present been satisfactorily explained. Of the congenital cysts, the Dermoid only are described here. Dermoid cysts are cysts in the walls of which are found all the structures constituting the true skin and its appendages, such as hair, hair-follicles, sebaceous glands, &c. The contents, which resemble sebaceous matter, con- sist of the secretion of the glands in the cyst-wall, and of epithelial debris, and frequently of hair. They are often quite unconnected with the skin, and their origin is attributed to the inclusion of a portion of the epiblast in the mesoblast, an explanation which in the region of the neck and face is probably correct, as these cysts are usually formed about the outer angle of the orbit, and in other of the situations at which in the embryo a cleft or fissure exists between the processes from which the face and neck are developed. In some dermoid cysts of the ovary teeth also are occasionally found. The origin of these, as of the dermoid cysts of the testicle, are not so obvious. Signs,—The dermoid cyst so common near the outer angle of the orbit forms a smooth, tense, globular tumour, generally freely moveable on the parts beneath. It is always congenital, grows slowly, and though generally small may attain a considerable size. Treatment.—The cyst should be dissected out by an incision through and parallel to the eye-brow, in order that the scar may be as much as possible hidden. At times these cysts send pro- cesses beneath the eyelid, or into the orbit, and they have even been known to perforate the bone and extend into the interior of the skull. Care, therefore, is necessary in their removal. H 2