42 GENERAL PATHOLOOY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. action of the micrococci on the weakened tissues the infil- tration of leucocytes and proliferation of connective- tissue-cells are so excessive that the blood supply of the tissues at the focus of inflammation is cut off by the compression and thrombosis of the smaller arteries and capillaries, and partly owing to the loss of the blood supply and partly as the result of the direct action of the products of the micro-organisms the part loses its vitality and dies. The red corpuscles break down, and their haemoglobin is dissolved in the albuminous fluid infil- trating the tissues, and stains them a deep red. Septic bacteria make their way through the skin and putre- faction sets in. The tissues disintegrate and liquefy, sulphuretted hydrogen and other putrescent gases are generated, and the part rapidly passes through changes similar to those it would undergo if it were no longer in connection with the body. Unless bacteria enter, the tissues undergo fatty changes (necrobiosis), not putrefac- tion. If the gangrene ceases to spread, the living tissues immediately in contact with the dead part, owing to the irritation of the micrococci, become intensely inflamed (hence the red line of demarcation) and, subsequently, in consequence of the peptonising action of the products of the micrococci and of the leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells, with which they become infiltrated, soften and break down into pus in the way described under Ulceration, and their cohesion being thus lost, the dead part is cast off. Haemorrhage, during the process of separation, is prevented by the thrombi filling the vessels, which, subsequently, become permanently sealed as ex- plained in the section on Haemorrhage. Granulations in the meanwhile spring up on the surface of the ulcer left on the removal of the slough, and cicatrization is finally effected. In the meanwhile, if the gangrene is at all extensive, or affects a vital organ, as a knuckle of intes- tine, it exercises a marked effect on the constitution. The vital powers are depressed, the heart's action is feeble, the pulse small, soft, and quickened, the tongue dry and brown, the lips are covered with sordes, and the appetite is lost; whilst later, as the products of putrefac- tion are absorbed into the system, symptoms of septic poisoning (saprcemia) set in. The above may be taken as a type of what is called inflammatory gangrene. Gangrene, however, may result from causes other than inflammation, and the dead part,