634 DISEASES OE REGIONS. again is accompanied by a peculiar jerking beat in the carotids, by anaemia, and by a prominence of tbe eyeballs (exophthalmic goitre)^ for a full account of which a work on Medicine must be consulted. The Symptoms common to any form of enlargement of the thyroid is a swelling taking more or less the charac- teristic shape of the thyroid gland, and moving with the larynx in deglutition. In this country the enlargement is generally moderate ; but sometimes, and especially in Switzerland, the goitre forms a large mass hanging down in front of the neck, and may press upon or even displace the trachea and oesophagus. It occurs chiefly in women. In the ordinary variety it feels soft, semi-fluctuating, and of uniform consistency; in the cystic, one or more fluctuating places can be felt; whilst in the fibrous it will be firm and hard and more or less lobed or irregular, and where calcification has taken place of stony hardness. Malignant goitre, which is very rare, may be known by rapid growth, enlarged glands, and the other signs of malignancy mentioned at page 71. The Cause of endemic goitre is not known. It has been attributed to impure water, water from limestone, and snow water, but without conclusive evidence. It is said to be most prevalent in valleys where from their direction the sun does not penetrate, on damp soil, and in damp parts of towns, but according to Mr. Berry these influences have little or nothing to do with its causation. In sporadic cases, heredity, disturbance of the sexual functions, and conditions producing congestion of the head and neck, are given as causes. Treatment.—Sporadic cases of ordinary goitre should be treated by the internal and external application of iodine. The application of biniodide of mercury ointment, fol- lowed by exposure to a hot sun, has been attended with much success in India. Injection of iodine and of per- chloride of iron into the solid parts of the growth is also recommended, but is not unattended with danger, as sudden death has occurred either from the accidental entrance of air or injection of the iron or iodine into a vein. If iodine is used m. iii only of the tincture should be in- jected by a hypodermic syringe deeply into the gland at one spot at a time. In cystic goitre perchloride of iron is by some Surgeons recommended to be thrown into the cyst through a cannula, and the cannula plugged and allowed to remain for some days to set up suppuration.