22 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF StlRGlGAL DISEASES. pressure by means of carefully applied bandages, Scott's dressing, or Martin's bandage, or the ammoniacum and mercury plaster; 4, the formation of setons or issues : and 5, the application of the actual cautery. Where suppuration threatens, as in chronic inflammation of lymphatic glands, sulphide of calcium may be of ser- vice in promoting the rapid breaking down of the case- ating mass. It should be given in doses of ^ to ^ of a grain. SUPPUEATION AKD ABSCESS. We have already seen that under some circumstances the inflammatory process may terminate in the softening and breaking down of the inflamed tissues, death of the infiltrating leucocytes and proliferating tissue cells, and consequent formation of pus, suppuration being then said to be established. This process, whether it occur (1) in the substance of the tissues or organs, or (2) on the free sur- face of the skin, a mucous or a serous membrane, is practically the same. In the former situation, it is spoken of as circumscribed or as diffuse suppuration, according as it is limited in extent or the reverse; in the latter situation it is known as purulent exudation or catarrh, or as ulceration, according as the process merely involves the superficial layers of the epithelium, or extends through to the deeper parts. We will first deal with the circumscribed variety of suppuration or ahscess, as this is the most familiar example to Surgeons. Circumscribed suppuration or abscess.—An abscess may be defined as a circumscribed collection of pus, the result of inflammation. It may be acute or chronic. Acute Abscess. — The formation of an abscess may perhaps best be studied as it occurs in the superficial tissues. We have already seen that an inflamed part is hot, red, swollen, and painful. If the inflammation ends in suppuration, the swelling which was more or less diffuse becomes circumscribed and pronounced, the red- ness localized and more intense, the pain assumes a throbbing character, and a distinct chill or rigor is generally experienced. On pressing lightly with the fingers on the inflamed part a sensation of fluid beneath the skin is felt, and fluctuation is said to be present. If left to nature the abscess makes its way in the direction