559 HARE-LIP. the more simple can be described. Whatever method is adopted, the objects to be kept in view are—1, to obtain primary union throughout the wound, and hence the minimum of scarring ; 2, to ensure the margin of the prolabium and free border of the lip respectively being in line ; 3, to prevent the formation after the operation of a notch at the line of union. These objects are best attained by well freeing the lip from the gums at the apex of the cleft so as to avoid tension ; by using a sharp knife so as to ensure clean incisions; by taking care to completely pare the margins of the cleft, and to remove suffi- cient tissue to secure broad, raw surfaces; by passing the hare-lip pins on the same level, and deeply enough to bring the whole of the raw surfaces into contact; and by making the cuts in paring the edges concave towards the Operation for single hare-lip, —Having placed a Smith's clamp (Fig. 197) on the lip Fig. 197.—Smith's clamp for on" either side of the cleft controlling haemorrhage dur- to control haemorrhage, pare operation for hare-hp. the edges of the cleft with a sharp nari-ow-bladed scalpel, taking care to remove the whole of the rounded portion of the prolabium on each side of the base of the cleft; and having freed the lip from the gums at the apex of the cleft^ bring the raw surfaces together by hare-lip pins, passing the lower one first to ensure the free edge of the lip and prolabium being in line. The lower pin should be entered a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cleft, and made to transfix the coronary artery; but it should not penetrate the mucous membrane, as if this be done the mucous membrane will double in and prevent union. A second pin will generally be necessary, and should be passed in the same way, and a silk suture twisted round each.' The sharp ends of the pins should be nipped off with pliers, a small piece of oiled lint placed beneath them to prevent injury to the cheek, and several sutures of horsehair passed superficially to keep the edges of the wound in accurate apposition. The parts should then be dried, and covered with collodion, and a dumb-bell- shaped piece of strapping applied across from cheek middle line of the cleft, so as to lengthen the line of union and allow for retraction.