LOBTTLAB INFLAMMATION OF THE BBEAST. 835 Symptoms.—The patient usually complains of a swell- ing, and sometimes of pain in the breast. On grasping the breast between the fingers the hypertrophied portion feels like a tumour, but on drawing it from the nipple so as to make the lactiferous ducts tense, it is found to be part of the mamma, and on pressing the breast back on the ribs with the flat of the hand no distinct tumour is felt, nor anything like the resistance of a new growi;h. Further, the swelling is usually of a wedge-shape, with its apex towards the nipple, and has not the stony hardness of scirrhus ; and there may be a second nodule in the same breast, or in the breast of the opposite side. The axillary glands are sometimes enlarged, but are not indurated, and the pain often follows, as pointed out by Mr. Birkett, the distribution of one or more intercostal nerves, the slightest pressure upon which as they issue from the thorax causes acute pain. The above signs will usually serve to distin- guish the affection from scirrhous carcinoma. Should, however, as occasionally happens, the nipple be retracted, the skin dimpled from the contraction of the fibrous septa, the surface of the gland rendered nodular by the presence of several tense cysts, and the patient moreover be about the age at which carcinoma is common, it may be difficult to diagnose between them, especially if the breast is voluminous, so that the characters of the swell- ing are obscured. Under such circumstances it is quite justifiable to make an exploratory incision, after having explained the importance of a correct diagnosis to the patient. Treatment.—Iron and quinine or the mineral acids are often indicated, and with these some combine the iodide of potassium. J^ocally a belladonna plaster may be applied, or the stays dispensed with to prevent friction, or a thick layer of cotton-wool placed between them and the breast. Inunction with iodide of potassium ointment, or with oleate of mercury, is also recommended. What- ever treatment is adopted, it should be presevered in for several months. There is a condition of Hypertrophy often met with in lads about the age of puberty, and in girls a little below that age. The breast enlarges slowly, often painlessly, generally on one, but sometimes on both sides. There are no signs of inflammation. Under the influence of a belladonna plaster applied for some months, which probably owes its efficacy to the fact that it prevents the 3 H 2