DISEASES OF REGIONS. 562 ulcerates. The new growth is believed to originate from the external root-sheath of the hair follicles, or from the sebaceous or the sweat glands. Microscopically the earliest manifestation is the appearance under the epi- dermis of irregular groups of small round or oval cells lying in a fibrous matrix. These cells may sometimes be seen continuous with the cells of the external root- sheath. Here and there irregular and ill-formed cell- nests occur. The ulceration is preceded, indeed is caused, by the extension of the new growth. From squamous- celled epithelioma rodent ulcer differs in that in the latter the cells are smaller and rounder, cell-nests are either absent or are ill-formed, and the processes of the growth spread superficially instead of deeply, and are flask-shaped and much branched. Signs.—The disease is one of ad- vanced life, and seldom occurs before fifty. It is twice as common in men as in women. It generally begins as a small tubercle, which later becomes an ulcer. The ulcer is generally single; its edges are irregular, sinuous, and a little raised, and but very slightly if at all indurated; its base is slightly depressed, glazed, void of granula- tions, generally of a pale pink colour, and at times covered with a scab. The skin around is healthy. Al- though attempts at cicatrization are sometimes seen, the cicatrix readily breaks down, and the ulcer, which never quite heals, slowly extends, destroying muscle, cartilage, and bone, till at the end, perhaps, of twenty or thirty years it has destroyed a great part of the bones of the face, one or both of the eyes, and the cartilages and bones of the nose, leaving a horrible and unsightly chasm. Treatment.—The growth or ulcer should be freely ex- cised. If done early the prognosis is good, as it is only when some of the growth is left that a recurrence need be feared. Even in the later stages when much tissue has been destroyed, free removal with the knife and the application of caustics to what cannot be thus re- moved, will sometimes stop the further progress of the growth. Stomatitis, or inflammation of the mouth, may be divided into the aphthous, the parasitic, the ulcerative, the syphilitic, the mercurial, and the gangrenous. Aphthous stomatitis generally depends upon some digestive disturbance, and is common in young children. It is characterized by white patches of erosion on the mucous membrane of the lips, cheek, and tongue. Ehu-