GENEEAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. 112 the part where the wound is to be made so as to prevent the clothes coming into contact with the wound. The wetting of the patient's clothes is prevented by placing aseptic mackintosh cloths beneath the carbolized towels. On the removal of the dressing the parts should be again sponged with the antiseptic. The carbolic spray is now abandoned, and irrigation with corrosive sublimate (1 in 5,000), carbolic acid (1 in 40), or even pure water substituted for it. In a work of this character, it would be impossible to attempt any description of the numerous methods of dressing wounds which have been, or are at the present day, in use, and to adequately discuss the advantages claimed for them, and the disadvantages which all of them to a greater or less degree possess. The objects aimed at in the selection of a dressing are—1, that it should be absorbent, so as readily to soak up the dis- charges drained off from the wound; 2, that it should promote the drying of the wound; 3, that it should be antiseptic or aseptic; and, hence, 4, that it should not require frequent changing, and the consequent disturb- ance of the wound and therefore of that rest which is so important in promoting physiological repair. The materials most frequently used are gauze or cotton-wool, impregnated with sal alembroth or the double cyanide of mercury and zinc, or simply sterilised by dry heat or superheated steam. My own plan is to dress the wound with several layers of moist sal alembroth gauze, over which is placed dry gauze and a thick layer of dry sal alembroth wool. Firm compression with a bandage is then applied. The wound is now left absolutely at rest till healing is thought to have taken place. The tempera- ture and pulse are, of" course, carefully -snatched; and should they indicate any abnormality in the process of healing, or should there be local pain or uneasiness, the wound is looked at and the dressings re-applied. 6. Constitutional treatment.—Whether the wound is received accidentally, or is inflicted in the form of an operation, much of the Surgeon's success will depend upon judicious constitutional after-treatment; and, indeed, in the latter case, in great measure also upon the preparation of the patient. Where the wound is large and there has been much haemorrhage^ the condition known as shock, and the constitutional symptoms de- pending upon severe loss of blood, will probably ensue.