INJURIES OF REGIONS. 472 the eversion of the limb characteristic of this variety. The psoas and iliacus, with the anterior crural nerve between them, are generally stretched tightly over the head of the bone. The femoral vessels are displaced to its inner side. Signs (Fig. 152).—The limb is slightly shortened, flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards; and the head of the bone can be plainly felt in its new situa- tion. There is flattening over the hip-joint. The anterior oblique, supraspinous, and everted dorsal, the three remaining regular dislocations of Bigelow, are too rare to be described here. They can readily be pro- duced, however, on the dead body. Thus the ordinary dorsal dislocation can be converted into the anterior ohlique by carrying the leg across the symphysis, forcibly evert- ing the thigh, and bringing it down across the lower third of the opposite thigh, in which position it becomes firmly locked. If now the thigh is forced into the perpendicular position, the outer branch of the Y ligament will be ruptured and the supraspinous variety produced. This variety in its turn can be converted into the everted dorsal by circumducting the extended limb inwards and then everting it. Treatment.—Eeduction may be effected by: 1, manipu- lation ; 2, traction with the limb in the flexed position; 3, traction with the limb in the extended position. Of these methods the first and the second are by far the most scientific, and when their principles are thoroughly under- stood and they are rightly applied, they are the most successful. Eecent dislocations should always be reduced by the first or second method, aided if need be by an anaesthetic"; and these methods will also often succeed in reducing cases of long standing after traction in the ex- tended position, even with the pulleys, has failed. 1. Reduction hi/ manipulation consists in relaxing the Y ligament, the chief obstacle to reduction, and then by means of various movements of rotation, circumduction and extension applicable to each particular variety of dislocation, in making the head of the bo^e retrace its steps round the margin of the acetabulum, and finally re-enter the acetabulum through the hole in the capsule by which it escaped. To do this it is necessary to know in what direction the head of the bone looks in any particular position of the limb—a point easily determined by remembering that the articular surface of the head looks very nearly in the same direction as the internal