DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 302 elastic bandage, in the case of poiDliteal aneurysm in whicii this method of compression has most often been used, should be evenly applied from the foot as far as the aneurysm ; a turn should be then made over the tumour, so as only lightly, if at all, to compress the sac, and the bandaging then continued firmly half-way up the thigh. The bandage should be kept on for an hour to an hour and a half. The elastic cord should not be used at all. On removing the bandage digital pressure should be kept up on the main artery from thirty-six to forty-eight hours, so as to control the circulation and prevent the clot, while still soft, from being washed out of the artery and sac. The patient must be placed under an ansesthetic during the use of the bandage, as it causes great pain. Many cases have been cured by this method ; but on the other hand there have been many failures, and it is far from being unattended with danger. Thus, gangrene of the limb and rupture of the sac have ensued, and aneurysms of internal arteries have apparently been produced by the prolonged increase of blood-pressure in the rest of the arterial system. {d.) Pressure hy Flexion [Harfs method) consists in flexing the limb so as to compress the artery by the aneurysm in imitation of that form of spontaneous cure which is brought about by the pressure of the aneurysm itself on the artery above and below. It is obviously applicable to aneurysms in but very few situations, and has been most successful in those of the popliteal artery. It may be used either alone, or in conjunction with digital or other pressure, or with medical treatment. LiGATUEE, like pressure, is a very old method of treatment, but to Anel and John Hunter is due the credit of having placed it on a scientific basis. The older Surgeons laid open the sac and turned out the clots, and endeavoured to staunch the haemorrhage by ligaturing the artery above and below the aneurysm. Antyllus, it is true, applied his ligatures before opening the sac; but it was not until centuries afterwards that Anel recog- nised the fact that it was unnecessary to open the sac at all, and tied the artery immediately above the aneurysm. Many years later Hunter perceived that the more or less complete stoppage of the circulation obtained by Anel's method was not necessary, and that the ligature of the artery close to the sac was attended with the risk of secondary hsemorrhage and inflammation of the sac. He