UNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE JOINT. 183 disease, fever, scurvy, the cancerous cachexia, pregnancy, old age, alteration of the patient's habits, and sudden deprivation of stimulants, are all said to be causes of ununited fracture. No doubt any condition that lowers the vitality and consequent power of repair of the tissues has a tendency to delay union, but it seems doubtful if any of the above conditions except scurvy is in itself, apart from the local causes, sufficient to prevent the bone uniting. Sometimes the callus, after having been formed, appears to be re-absorbed, the fracture being then spoken of as disunited. This appears to be not uncommor in scurvy. Treatment,—Constitutional as well as local treatment maybe required. In recent cases—where the fracture is found ununited after having been kept in splints for the usual time,'a condition sometimes called delayed union in contradistinction to ununited fracture, the splints should be re-applied, and in such a manner as to ensure perfect immobility of the fragments; whilst the general health should be improved by every means in our power; and any constitutional taint as syphilis, gout, &c., thai} may be detected, combated by appropriate remedies. If the patient has been accustomed to stimulants, and has been deprived of them, he should be allowed a moderate quantity. In some cases it may be expedient to ^Vit the fracture in an immovable apparatus, and let the j)atient get about on crutches. Should union still not occur, the ends of the fragments should be rubbed together to excite some amount of inflammation, and splints or other apparatus be again applied. This failing, and in long- standing cases, two courses are open; either to try to unite the fragments by some operative procedure, or to apply some form of permanent apparatus to fix them in position. The choice of these methods will depend upon the situation of the fracture, whether it is of the nature, of an ununited fracture or a false joint; and upon the patient's age, constitutional condition, occupation, and rank of life. Thus, in the case of an ununited fracture of the upper third of the femur in a patient of advanced age or of broken constitution, an operation is attended with the greatest risk to life, and for such, some form of apparatus is better suited. But when the patient is yoang or of good constitution, or his occupation is such that he cannot afford an apparatus and the continual