520 DISEASES OF REGIONS. part of th.^ tympanic walls. Wlien followed by septic poisoning, the symptoms are headache, vomiting, and rigors, with great rise of temperature, sweating and tenderness over the mastoid, and in the course of the internal jugular vein. There is also frequently pain on making firm pressure at the posterior border of the mastoid process, and, occasionally, local oedema, and sometimes optic neuritis. TreatmeMt,—Trephine the mastoid, and if the sinus be found plugged,' ligature the internal jugular vein in two places, and divide it between the ligatures. Now lay open the lateral sinus, and, removing the clot, thoroughly wash out the sinus with a weak solution of perchloride of mercury. If in doubt as to whether the lateral sinus is plugged or not, a fine trocar and cannula may first be inserted into it. Chronic non-purulent catarrh.—By far the largest proportion of cases of deafness met with are due to chronic catarrh. So many pathological conditions are included under this heading, that it is impossible to do more than give a very general outline of the symptoms. The affection may result from an acute attack, but more generally is a chronic affection from the very first. Heredity, syphilis, gout, rheumatism, and gestation, are predisposing, and perhaps in some cases, exciting causes. Large doses of quinine long continued, may also be an exciting cause. The disease at first progresses so in- sidiously, as often to remain unsuspected for some time. In many cases, tinnitus is the first and perhaps for a time the only symptom. More often, however, the earliest symptom is slight difiiculty of hearing general conversation; later there is tinnitus, at first intermittent, afterwards persistent. Gradually the deafness increases till it becomes marked. This deafness varies greatly with the state of the weather and the patient's general health. There is rarely pain, and when present, it is transient, and never severe. There is often a sense of tightness in the head, and a feeling as if the ears were stopped with cotton-wool. Sometimes there is giddiness, and some patients hear perfectly in a vibrating noise, as for instance in a railway carriage. On inspection, the meatus is dry and shining; and occasionally it contains im- pacted cerumen, the removal of which, however, causes no improvement in hearing. The membrane varies greatly in appearance. At times it is normal, oftener more or less