343 TUMOURS OP NERVES. rary benefit. Nerve-stretching holds out better prospects of success. It consists in cutting down upon the nerve, catching it up with a blunt hook or aneurysm needle passed beneath it, and forcibly stretching both the proximal and distal ends. The strain that a nerve will bear without breaking of course varies with its size, but it is very con- siderable. The sciatic nerve, which is sometimes stretched for sciatica, is so strong that the patient can be lifted up from the table by it without its giving way. This nerve, however, may be stretched by what is called the bloodless method—i.e., by extending, the leg on the thigh, and forcibly flexing the thigh on the bbdy. The effect upon the pain produced by nerve-stretching is variously supposed to depend on—1, some alteration of the molecular ele- ments of the nerve which may be transmitted to the nerve- centres; 2, some alteration in its vascular or nervous supply; 3, the breaking down of adhesions which may have formed around it. This operation is not infrequently practised for intractable trigeminal or epileptiform neuralgia. The relief it gives is unfortunately not always permanent, though considerable periods of immunity have been gained, and after the return of the pain the opera- tion may be repeated. At any rate it appears to give more lasting relief than either neurotomy or neurectomy. Cases of epileptiform neuralgia that have resisted all other treat- ment, have, in several instances, been greatly benefited, if not cured, by the excision of Meckel's ganglion. In others the trunk of the fifth nerve or all its branches simultaneously have been divided, and the Gasserian ganglion has even been removed. These very severe procedures have been followed by sloughing of the eye- ball. Slight injuries to the eye, such as the irritation of the conjunctiva by the antiseptic fluid in operations upon the fifth nerve and especially upon the first division, may lead to suppuration of the globe. It has been advised therefore to sew up the eyelids previously to operating. Hypnotic suggestion has of late been much practised abroad for the cure of neuralgia and allied affections. Tumours oe nerves, whatever their structure, were formerly called neuromata. This term, however, should be restricted to that rare form of tumour composed of nerve elements; whilst other tumours of nerves should be called fibromata, sarcomata, &c., as in other situations, according as they consist of fibrous tissue, sarcoma elements, &c.