643 CARIES OF THE SPINE. segment of the column, witli the exception of being bent, undergoes but little alteration of its calibre, and the cord, as the bending of the canal occurs but slowly, conse- quently usually escapes injury. When the disease is acute and the bending consequently more rapid, some amount of temporary paralysis may occur, impairment or loss of motion being far more frequent than loss of sensation on account of the proximity of the anterior motor columns to the diseased vertebral bodies. The cord is occasionally pressed upon by portions of bone separated from the vertebrae, or by pus making its way into the canal, or by inflam- matory thickening of the mem- branes {pachymeningitis). It may sometimes undergo softening, lead- ing to permanent paraplegia. Spinal abscess {psoas and lumbar). When suppuration occurs, the pus collects in front of the diseased vertebrae in the angle formed by the falling forward of the upper upon the lower portion of the spine. The anterior common ligament and periosteum, relaxed by the bending of the spine, yield to the pressure of the pus, and'with the pleura or peri- Fig. 246. — Caries of toneum become thickened and form the spine. (St. Bar- the abscess wall. The pus, prevented tholomew's Hospital from travelling upwards by the Museum.) overhanging vertebrae, downwards in front of the column by the attachments of the anterior common ligament, and backwards by the posterior common ligament, and by the vertebrae being less diseased behind than in front, makes its way on one or other side of the column. There it either enters the sheath of the psoas, and destroying the contained muscle, presents in the iliac fossa or groin as an iliac or a psoas abscess, or passes backwards through or external to the quadratus lum- borum, and points in the loin where it is known as a lumbar abscess. In rare instances the pus may take a different course. Thus I have seen it make its way into the ischio-rectal fossa, or pass through the great sciatic foramen, or travel along the course of a rib and reach the surface near the sternum. Occasionally an abscess T T 2