556 DISEASES OE REGIONS. DISEASES OE THE LIPS, CHEEKS, AND MOUTH. Herpes oe the lip.—A crop of herpetic vesicles wliich burst in a few days leaving small scabs, are common on tbe lip during slight attacks of catarrh, in- digestion, &c. Their occurrence in pneumonia is well known. Cracks and eissures oe the lip following exposure to cold, &c., in dyspeptics, are very common, and if neglected, may form deep and painful j&ssures, prone to bleed and obstinate to heal. A simple ointment, and if persistent, touching them with nitrate of silver, will generally suffice to cure them. They must not be mis- taken for the fissures about the corners of the mouth so common in congenital and acquired syphilis. Papillomata or warty growths oe the lip are of interest in that they are liable as age advances to become epitheliomatous. They may sometimes grow out in the form of horns. Extirpation with the knife is the proper treatment. SuPEREiciAL ULCERS on the inner surface of the lip are common accompaniments of errors in digestion, and of secondary syphilis. There are usually similar ulcers on the side of the tongue and cheeks. Nitrate of silver or chromic acid lotions are the best local applications. N^YUS OE THE LIP when small may be touched with nitric acid or ethylate of sodium; and when pendulous and projecting from, the free margin, ligatured. When involving the whole substance of the lip it may be treated by electrolysis, or, better, excised by means of a Y-shaped incision. Hypertrophy oe the lip, generally the upper, is often met with in connection with cracks and fissures in strumous children, and is known as the strumous Up. A similar condition is sometimes met with in congenital syphilis and in chronic nasal catarrh. The thickening, as a rule, disappears under constitutional treatment, and as the patient grows older. The removal of a wedge-shaped piece, as advised by some, can seldom be necessary. Carbuncle oe the lip is a most dangerous disease, as it is very liable to lead to infective phlebitis of the facial vein which may spread thence through the ophthalmic vein to the cavernous and other cranial sinuses, and terminate in infective meningitis or in general blood