INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 208 arrest the lisemorrhage, not only will the patient be further reduced by loss of blood, but the subsequent ligature, which will then probably in the end have to be applied to the bleeding artery in the wound, may through the extra interference with the collateral vessels induce gangrene of the limb. 4. Tying the main artery above is in itself in some cases a more dangerous and difficult procedure than enlarging the wound. The reason for applying a liga- ture to hoth ends of the vessel if it is divided, or above and heloiu the tuoitnd if it is merely punctured or only partially cut across, is that ligature of the proximal end only is insufficient to arrest the hsemor- rhage, since the blood, as seen in Fig. 45, may be carried round by the collateral channels into the ar- tery below the wound and may thence escape by the open distal end. In some instances, the above rule of cutting down upon and tying the artery at the wounded spot cannot be carried out. Thus, where the artery is inaccessible, as in punc- tured wounds of the tonsil, or about the angle of the jaw; or where important structures would be damaged by enlarging the wound, as the tendons in the palm of the hand in wounds of the palmar arch, it may be necessary to tie in the former case one of the carotids, in the latter the brachial. Moreover, it may at times be safer to remove a limb than to search for the bleed- ing vessel, as for instance in wounds of the posterior tibial artery in the upper third of the leg, especially if the injury is complicated by fracture. Again, it may not only be found impracticable to ligature the artery at the wounded spot, but also impossible to tie or even compress the main vessel nearer the heart, as for Fig. 45.—Diagram to illustrate the manner in which, after a li- gature has been ap- plied at a distance from a wound in an artery, the blood may be carried back again into the artery above and below the wounded spot by col- lateral vessels. The arrows indicate the direction of the blood current.