TUBERCLE AND TUBERCULOSIS. 49 mended by Eaynaud, or placing the parts in an electric bath, has been attended with good results before gangrene has set in. When this has occurred it must be treated on general principles till the parts have separated. TUBERCLE AND TUBERCULOSIS. Tubercle is a new growth depending upon the pre- sence of the tubercle bacillus, and capable of inducing tuberculosis by transference to most animals. Tubercle may be limited to one set of tissues, or to an organ {local tuberculosis). Or it may be generally diffused throughout the whole body {general tuberculosis). Structure of tubercle.—Tubercle is met with under two forms, grey miliary nodules and yellow caseous masses. {a) The grey miliary tubercles have almost the lustre and hardness of cartilage. They are globular in shape and vary in size from a pin's point to a millet or mustard seed. They are sharply defined, and may be scattered throughout an organ or on a serous surface, or be grouped more or less closely, {b) The yelloiu caseous masses are soft in consistency and larger than the miliary tubercles, the larger masses being produced by the fusion of several tubercles. Yellow tubercle is believed to be due to the degeneration of miliary tubercle. In some cases of general tuberculosis only the miliary form may be found, in other cases only the yellow variety; but fre- quently the two forms are mixed, and the various stages from grey to yellow, from the central softening of the miliary tubercle to its complete conversion into a caseous yellow mass, can be traced. Microscopically a typical grey granulation when of some size is seen to consist of some smaller nodules aggregated together, whilst each of these again is composed of cells of various shapes and sizes, arranged in three zones (see Fig. 5). The inner zone is formed by one or more large branching so-called giant-cells, composed of a granular protoplasm, in which many large distinct oval nuclei containing nucleoli are found. The next zone consists of large single-nucleated cells, arranged between the branches or processes of the giant-cells, which ramify through the zone. These cells are called endothelioid, from their resemblance to endothelial cells. The third or outermost zone consists of lymphoid cells, like ordinary w. ' E