145 SAPR^MIA OR SEPTIC INTOXICATION. this be the result of injury or of operation, with a feeling of chilliness or a distinct rigor. The temperature runs up to 102° or, 103° or higher, with morning remissions, the pulse is increased in frequency, the skin is hot and dry, the urine is scanty and high coloured, the tongue is furred, the appetite is lost, the bowels are confined, and the patient complains of headache and general feeling of malaise, and is at times delirious. The symptoms, which are generally at their height about the sixth or seventh day, may subside as suppuration is established and the further absorption of septic products is prevented by the sealing of the tissues with the inflammatory exudation and the formation of granulation-tissue. If the absorp- tion of septic products continues in small quantities the fever may run into hectic, or, if the dose of poison is increased, into saprjBmia. The treatment consists in at once rendering the wound aseptic and thoroughly draining it, the bowels in the meantime being opened by a brisk purge, and slop diet continued. Sape^mia oe septic intoxication, which has hitherto been included with septic infection under the term septicaemia, is a form of blood-poisoning believed to be due to the absorption in large quantities of the chemical products of putrefaction {sepsine, putrescine, cadaverine, &c.), derived from a septic or ill-drained wound. It is, therefore, a more severe form of septic traumatic fever, the difference being one of degree rather than of kind. Clinically, it is not always possible to distinguish it from septic traumatic fever on the one hand, and from septi- caemia, or even pyaemia before metastatic abscesses are formed, on the other hand. It is probable, moreover, that sapraemia, septicaemia and pyaemia, though each may depend upon a different poison, often occur simultaneously in the same subject. Cause,—For sapraemia to occur the septic poison must - be absorbed in a sufficient quantity, which is estimated in the human subject at from one to two ounces. Hence the cause may be said to be those conditions that lead to the production of the poison in large quantities and that favour its absorption into the blood. Amongst these may be mentioned—1. Extensive wounds recently made, inefficiently drained, and not kept aseptic. 2. Wounds of serous and synovial membranes. 3. Abscesses, cavities, and granulating wounds in which decomposing discharges w. L