832 DISEASES OF REGIONS. brought out of tlie wound. The pedicle, which consists of broad ligament and its contained structures, is trans- fixed and ligatured as in ovariotomy, the ovary cut off, and the pedicle dropped back into the abdomen. Hysterectomy, or removal oe the uterus, may be done through the vagina {Schrceder^s operation) or through an incision in the abdominal walls {FreuncVs operation). In the former, an incision is made through the vaginal mucous membrane around the cervix, the peritoneal cavity opened, the broad ligament transfixed and liga- tured, and the uterus severed from its connections and drawn out through the vagina. In the operation though the abdominal wall, the peritoneal cavity is opened, as in ovariotomy; the broad ligament transfixed and ligatured ; and the uterus drawn up from the pelvis and carefully severed from its connections. For a detailed account of these operations, however, the student is referred to a larger work. DISEASES OE THE BREAST. Paget's disease oe the nipple, sometimes spoken of as eczema, is an intractable form of ulceration around the nipple. It lasts for many years, and yields to no treat- ment. A considerable proportion of cases develop carci- noma of the breast. Eecently small vegetable parasites known as psorosperms have been found in the tissues sur- rounding the ulcer, and are supposed to be the exciting cause of the disease. Treatment.—When all mild measures are unavailing, many Surgeons recommend amputation of the breast for fear of cancer subsequently forming. Neuralgia of the breast is not uncommon in young unmarried women, and appears to be frequently due to some ovarian disturbance. The pain is often severe, per- haps shooting down the arm, and may be constant or periodic; whilst the skin over the breast, as well as the gland itself, is exceedingly sensitive onhandling. Nothing, except at times a slight fulness, can be detected on ex- amination. The treatment consists in improving the general health by tonics, cold baths, and outdoor exercise, and in regulating the ovarian functions. No local treat- ment is necessary; indeed, the patient's attention should be taken off the breast as much as possible. Inflammation of the breast may occur at any age, and in the male as well as in the female. In infants it is