FRACTURES OP THE FEMUR. 487' generally abducted and • rotated outwards by the glutei, and external rotator muscles. The upper end of the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the adductors, and upwards by the quadriceps and hamstrings, whilst it is also rotated outwards in part by the adductors, and in part by the weight of the limb. Occasionally, the upper fragment is drawn inwards instead of outwards. Union is apt to occur with some overlapping of the frag- ments and angular deformity. In the middle third the displacement is similar, the upper fragment usually projecting in front and to the outer side of the lower. In the lower third the upper fragment, in addition to being displaced forwards, is generally drawn towards the middle line by the adductors; whilst the lower fragment, especially when the fracture is just above the condyles, is tilted backwards into the popliteal space by the gastro- cnemius, where it can be felt as a distinct prominence, and at the same time is drawn upwards with the rest of the limb by the hamstrings and quadriceps (Fig. 162), Signs.—In the adult the signs are usually very obvious. They consist in shortening, crepitus, eversion of the foot, swelling from the approximation of the attachments of the muscles, and in preternatural mobility and loss of power in the limb. The ends of the fragments, more- over, can often be felt on manipulation. In young children the diagnosis is not always so easy, especially when the fracture is incomplete; the bowing of the limb, shortening, sensation of yielding or creaking, and the history of the accident^ however, will usually prevent a mistake. Treatment.—The methods of treating fractures of the shaft of the femur are very numerous; they have all for their object the extension of the limb. Extension over- comes the spasmodic contraction of the hamstrings and adductors, and through the insertion of the quadriceps into the anterior surface of the upper fragment draws the lower end of the latter backwards, thus counteracting the psoas and iliacus. The various methods may be briefly considered under the following heads:—1, the long splint; 2, the weight and pulley; 3, the double-inclined plane ; 4, the plaster-of-Paris or starch bandage. 1. The long splint (Fig. 163) in its simplest form consists of a straight lath with two notches at its lower, and two holes in its upper end, and is known as Liston's. It should reach from the axilla to six inches below the