517 POLYPI. has tlie disadvantage of being more difficult to apply. Toynbee's is easily applied, but it is more irritating to the ear. There are various modifications of Toynbee's, the best being Gruteres. It is impossible to tell in any given case whether the artificial drum will succeed; this can only be ascertained by trial. When successful the artificial drum should only be worn at first for a few hours. The length of time should gradually be increased as the ear becomes accustomed to its presence. It should always be removed at night. Various complications may arise in the course of chronic purulent catarrh. These are 1, polypi; 2, mastoid disease; 3, caries and necrosis; 4, meningitis and intracranial sup- puration ; and 5, phlebitis and septicaemia. (1.) Polypi may grow from the tympanic membrane, the meatus, or the tympanic cavity. Those growing from the meatus are not true polypi; but for brevity they will be all classed under the name of polypi. They vary much in size, being sometimes not larger than a mustard seed, at other times large enough to project be- Fig. 187.—Polypus snare, yond the external orifice of the meatus. They are usually bright red in colour, but may be pale pink, and when very large greyish-yellow. ^ They bleed more or less readily when touched. The diagnosis is easily made, but care must be taken not to mistake a swollen and vascular membrane for a polypus. In case of doubt the mobility of the latter, when touched with a probe, will settle the point. Treat- ment.—Polypi growing from the tympanic membrane should be destroyed with a saturated solution of chromic acid applied by means of a piece of cotton-wool twisted round a fine pair of forceps (Pig. 184). When the growth springs from the meatus, and is not too far in, it can easily be pinched off with a pair of aural forceps; when deeper in, it can be scraped off with a small sharp spoon. Those of larger size, especially when arising in the tympanic cavity, should be removed by the snare (Fig. 187). If the growth be of large size, of long duration, and firm in structure, it is most easily removed by seizing