EXTERNAL URETHROTOMY. 783 Place the patient in the lithotomy position, and make an incision one inch and a quarter long through the middle line of the perineum over the stricture. Having felt the staff distinctly in the wound, take it in the left hand, "and guarding the knife with the right forefinger, insert its point into the groove on the bladder side of the stric- ture, and divide the stricture from behind forward. When completely divided, the thicker part of the staff can be pushed on into the bladder." A full-sized catheter should be tied in for twenty-four hours. The difficulties attending Syme's operation are—1, to be sure that the staff is in the bladder, and not in a false passage ; and 2, to pass a catheter afterwards. These are obviated by the modification suggested by Teevan. He advises a catheter- FiG. 304.—Syme's staff. staff with a groove on its convexity, along which the knife can be run to divide the stricture. When intro- duced, it is known to be in the bladder by the escape of urine on removing the stylet. A bougie is then screwed on to its end, and a gum-elastic railway catheter is passed over the bougie and staff till arrested by the stricture, and is there fixed by a screw. When the stricture is thought to be divided, the catheter is advanced over the staff; and if all is divided, will pass on into the bladder. The catheter-staff can now be withdrawn, and the catheter, if desired, left in the bladder. Syme's operation is very useful, but like other methods is liable to be fol- lowed by recontraction if a bougie is not occasionally! passed. Perineal section must not be confounded with Syme's - operation to which this term is sometimes applied. The older operations of perineal section were performed. by cutting into the urethra either in front of or behind the stricture, and then trying to divide the stricture without a guide. They were the most difficult operations in Surgery. The stricture was often missed altogether and an incision made by its side, and the greatest difficulty was experienced in finding the proximal end of the urethra.,