DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 439 outer side of the arm, can only be made to touch the acromion and external condyle at the same time wheji the head of the humerus is absent from the glenoid cavity; 2, Callaway's test, A tape passed round the acromion and under the axilla, will measure about two inches more on the dislocated than on the sound side; 3, Dugas's test. With the hand placed on the opposite shoulder, the elbow in a dislocation cannot be made to touch the chest. Occasionally a dislocation is complicated by a fracture, and an accurate diagnosis may be rendered very difficult. In such, and in all cases where there is any doubt, the patient should be examined under an anaesthetic. The suhcoracoid.—This is the most frequent variety of dislocation of the shoulder (Fig. 126). The head rests on the anterior surface of the neck of the scapula, just below the coracoid process, the groove between the head and greater tuberosity resting on the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity. The capsular ligament is lacerated, an- teriorly and inferiorly, or detached from the margin of the glenoid cavity in front and below. The subscapularis is generally raised by the head of the bone from the scapula, and the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor are tightly stretched. Sometimes the muscles are torn across at their insertion, or the greater tuberosity is detached, the muscles remaining entire. 13 nder these cir- cumstances the head of the bone rolls inwards so that more of it is internal to the coracoid process, a condition described by Malgaigne as a distinct variety {intracoracoid). The long head of the biceps is generally unmjured, whilst the short head and the coraco-brachialis and the axillary artery and brachial plexus are displaced inwards by the head of the bone. Special signs.—The head of the bone can be seen and felt in its abnormal situation. The elbow projects slightly backwards and away from the side. The arm is generally shortened or unaltered in length; occasionally it is said to be lengthened. The truth appears to be that there are all grades between the' subcoracoid as here described in which there is undoubted shortening, and the next form, the subglenoid, in which lengthening as undoubtedly occurs. The subglenoid is the next most common variety. The head rests on the inner aspect of the inferior border of the scapula, below and a little in front of the glenoid cavity (Fig. 127). The capsular ligament is ruptured below. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and sub-