COMPLICATIONS OF CHEST-IIS-JUKIES. 405 symptoms of pericarditis. The treatment is the same as that for a wound of the pericardium. Rapture of the heart, though rare, occasionally occurs as the result of great external violence to the chest-walls, orof some sudden exertion on the part of a patient sjitfer- ing from disease of the heart's substance. Death is as a rule almost instantaneous. 3. Wounds of the large blood-yessels, as the aorta or vena cava, are almost invariably and immedi- ately fatal, and require no further comment here. CompUcatiohs of Injuries of the Chest, The chief complications attending injuries of the chest are :—1, external haemorrhage ; 2, hsemothorax ; 3, pneu- mothorax ; 4, emphysema; 5, prolapse and hernia of the lung; 6, pleurisy; 7, pneumonia; 8, hsemopericardium; 9, pericarditis ; 10, mediastinal abscess. 1. External hemorrhage in penetrating wounds of the chest-walls may come from:—(1), an intercostal artery ; (2), the internal mammary artery; (3), a wound of the lung; or (4), a wound of the heart or one of the large vessels. Haemorrhage from an intercostal or the internal mammary artery, though it may generally be known by the blood escaping in jets, is sometimes diffi- cult to distinguish from haemorrhage from the lung. In such a case it is said that if a card be introduced into the wound, the blood, if it comes from an artery in the chest- wall, will flow over the outer surface of the card, but if it comes from the lung will well up around the card. Haemorrhage from the heart or one of the large vessels is as a rule immediately fatal. Treatment.—1. An inter- costal artery should, if possible, be tied; otherwise pressure forceps may be left on, or the artery with the periosteum may be separated from the lower half of the rib and then tied, or a portion of the rib may be excised. Where assistance is not at hand, the centre of a sheet of lint (wrung out of an antiseptic solution) may be pushed into the pleural cavity and the hollow stuifed lirmly with antiseptic w^ool. When the lint is now drawn on, the artery will be compressed against the interior of the chest- wall as shewn in the accompanying diagram. (Fig. 112.) 2. The internal mammary in the four upper spaces can be easily tied ; in the lower spaces a portion of the costal