535 DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. dition known as anterior synechia, or if the corneal scar is white, as leukoma adherens. The other results which may occur are conical cornea, and bulging of the cornea and sclerotic {anterior staphyloma). Conical coenea (keratoconus) is a bulging of the central portion of the cornea. It generally occurs in females, and is due to defective nutrition of the corneal tissue. It may follow an ulcer, especially if central. Operative pro- cedures, as iridectomy, trephining the cornea, &c., rarely do any good, and the same may usually be said for concave and stenopaic glasses. Foreign bodies on the cornea should be removed as soon as possible. Ansesthesia of the cornea should first be obtained by dropping 4°/^ cocaine solution three times into the eye at intervals of five minutes. The patient being placed on a chair facing the light, the operator stands behind the patient and with the fingers of the left hand separates the lids, at the same time pressing on the eye- ball to steady it. Then with a spud or needle held in the right hand the foreign body should be lifted off or picked out of the cornea. ScLERiTis (episcleritis) or inflammation of the scleral tissue, is accompanied by a circumscribed reddish-purple patch of vascular congestion about 2 to 3 mm. from the corneal margin, generally on the outer side. It lasts as a rule from five to eight months, and often relapses; the pain and tenderness vary much in intensity, and in severe cases iritis is usually present. It is more common in women than men, and affects especially those of the rheumatic and strumous diathesis, or patients with a syphilitic taint. The best modes of treatment are warm fomentations of opium, leeches, massage, belladonna and atropine if iritis is suspected, and general constitutional remedies. Wounds of this region may be divided into (a) corneal, [b) scleral, and (c) sclero-corneal. (a) Corneal ivounds, unless implicating the lens or iris, generally heal quickly. (6) Scleral wounds more than J inch behind the sclero- corneal junction, if small and unaccompanied by the pre- sence of a foreign body in the eye, may be stitched up, or the conjunctiva stitched over them, and then treated by ice-pads to allay inflammation, (c) Sclero-corneal wounds are the most dangerous, owing to the great risk of sym- pathetic inflammation, and demand great judgment in saving the eye; in most cases the eye ought to be excised, especially if the lens is injured.