154 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. membrane, similar to that of diphtheria. This membrane consists of granulation-cells and coagulated exudation in which are found micrococci in chains and colonies. The affection appears to be only very slightly contagious, and does not aft'ect the system generally further than by the absorption of the septic products. The treatment consists in attention to the general hygiene, and dusting the wound with iodoform or rubbing it over with a stick of nitrate of silver. Malignant Pustule or Charbon is a specific infec- tive disease due to inoculation with a virus {bacillus anthracis) obtained from animals suffering from splenic fever. It occurs most frequently in this country amongst those whose work brings them into contact with hides imported from countries in which splenic fever is common. The bacillus may enter the system through a wound or abrasion of the skin, a pustule occurring at the point of inoculation. The disease may then remain localized, or the bacillus may enter the blood and there rapidly multi- plying give rise to constitutional symptoms. At times the bacillus is absorbed directly into the blood through the alimentary or respiratory mucous membrane without any external manifestation, and sets up similar constitu- tional symptoms, the affection being then known as W^ool- sorter''s Disease, (See a work on Medicine.) t^ymjotoms.—A red itching pimple is first noticed, gene- rally at the situation of a slight scratch or abrasion of the skin, on the face or some other exposed part. The pimple soon becomes converted into a vesicle, whilst the sur- rounding tissues become red and brawny. Gangrene occurs at the focus of inflammation, and around this a ring of secondary vesicles forms. Thus, when the so- called pustule is fully developed, it presents a very characteristic appearance (Fig. 35). In the centre there is a dry black slough, around this a ring of vesicles, and around this again an area of redness, brawny induration and much oedema. There is, however, but little pain and no suppuration. The neighbouring lymphatic glands may now become enlarged and tender; feverish symptoms rapidly assuming a typhoid type set in, and the patient dies of sudden syncope, exhaustion, or it may be of oedema of the glottis when the disease affects the neck. Should any doubt exist as to the nature of the disease, it will be cleared up by examining the contents of the vesicles for the bacillus.