768 DISEASES OE REGIONS. or contact with leiicorrlioeal discharges. Signs.—Simple inflammation of the urethra is attended by a catarrhal, and at times, by a muco-purulent discharge, and except in the mildest forms, it cannot always, without taking into account the history of the case, be distinguished from gonorrhoea. Like the latter affection it may, though much more rarely, be complicated by cystitis, prostatitis, epididymitis, nephritis, synovitis, and oph- thalmia. The treatment is similar to that for gonorrhoea. Gonorrhoea is an infective, and probably specific in- flammation, attended with a muco-purulent discharge. In the male it is most common in the urethra, in the female in the vagina and about the vulva; but it may attack any mucous membrane exposed to contagion. Cause.—In the male it is nearly always due to direct contagion, and in the female it is also commonly con- tracted in this way; but in the female it may possibly be developed de novo, i.e., evolved from a non-pathogenic organism through want of cleanliness and the decompo- sition of retained and foul discharges. Pathology. — Gonorrhoea is by many regarded as a specific and infective inflammation, in that it has a dis- tinct incubative period, is highly contagious, extends along the mucous tracks it attacks, and may secondarily affect the fibrous tissues of the body generally, as in gonorrhoeal rheumatism and sclerotitis, and in that the micro-organism (gonococcus), found in the discharges after gelatine cultivations to four generations, will set up a similar inflammation in any mucous membrane to which it is applied. In the male, gonorrhoea usually begins in the mucous membrane of the fossa navicularis, and if allowed to run its course, extends backwards along the urethra, and thence may spread to the vesiculse seminales, prostate, bladder, and testicle. In the female it usually begins about the vulva, whence it may extend to the vagina, and more rarely to the urethra, bladder, and uterus. Symptoms.—Gonorrhoea is generally divided into three stages." In the first stage, usually lasting from a few days to a week, there is some itching about the external meatus followed by a yellowish-white discharge. In the second or acute stage, there is great pain on urination, a thick yellowish-green discharge, and redness and swelling about the lips of the meatus. In the third or chronic stage, which, when prolonged, is known as gleet, the