174 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TlSStTES. Varieties of fracture.—A fracture is said to be simple ■when the skin covering it is not broken ; compound wlien a wound through the skin and soft parts leads down to the seat of the fracture. Whether simple or compound, fractures are further spoken of:—1. According to their extent, as:— complete, when the bone is broken quite across; incomplete or greenstick, when partially broken and partially bent; comminuted, when broken into several pieces; and midtiple, when two or more distinct fractures occur in the same bone, or in different bones. 2. Accord- ing to the condition of the fragments, as:—impacted, when one fragment is driven into another; fissured, when there is a mere crack through the bone without displacement; depressed, when one fragment is pressed in below the surface, as in some fractures of the cranium; punctured, when there is a small perforation with driving inwards of the fragments; and splintered, when only a fragment of bone is chipped off. 3. According to the line of fracture, as:—transverse^ oblique, spiral, longitudinal, or stellate, terms which sulficiently explain themselves. A fracture, moreover, is said to be complicated, when associated with other injuries, as rupture of the main artery of the limb, implication of a large joint, &g. displacement of the fragments, especially in the bones of the limbs, commonly occurs, except the fracture is trans- verse, when, as in the case of the tibia, there, may be little or none. The causes of the displacement may be enumerated as: 1. The weight of the limb acting on the lower fragment; 2. Muscular contraction; and 3. The violence producing the fracture. The amount of dis- placement will depend in part on the direction of the line of fracture, and in part on whether the periosteum is or is not torn. Thus the displacement is usually considerable when the fracture is oblique, insignificant when trans- verse, especially if the periosteum is intact. The dis- placement is spoken of as angular, lateral, longitudinal, and rotatory, according to the direction which the frag- ments bear to each other. Signs.—Before examining for fracture, the clothes should be carefully removed, and the parts handled tenderly, lest a simple fracture be converted into a com- pound by a sharp fragment being driven through the skin. Thus, in the case of the leg, the boot should be cut off, the trousers ripped up the seam, and the stocking split with scissors. The injured side should always be