262 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. long-continued suppuration and hectic, or wliere signs of incipient phthisis or lardaceous disease are becoming manifest, the question of amputation must be raised. ^ TuBEECULAR DISEASE OF THE HIP, though essentially similar to tubercular disease of other joints, requires separate mention, as owing to the depth and conforma- tion of the articulation it is attended with special symptoms, and calls for certain modifications in the method of treatment. Signs.—In the early stages there is slight lameness, some limitation in the range of movement of the joint, generally pain, and often quite early some atrophy and wasting of the muscles. The pain, though at times severe, is more frequently slight, and may only be elicited on making certain movements of the joint. It may be felt in the hip, or as is commonly the case, be referred to the knee or to other parts supplied by the obturator nerve, as the inner side of the thigh. At times it may be felt in both hip and knee simultaneously. The joint is slightly stiff, not only on flexion and extension, but also on rotation and on abduction and adduction, especially in the semi-flexed position. There is often some fulness about the front of the joint, loss of the gluteal fold, and perhaps tenderness on pressure. The joint becomes at first slightly flexed, everted, and abducted, i.e., it assumes the position in which the ligaments of the inflamed joint are most relaxed—the position of greatest ease. In order to bring the flexed and abducted limb to the ground, the pelvis is depressed on the affected side, and hence the limb appears when placed parallel to its fellow slightly lengthened (Fig. 70, A and b). Later, the joint becomes further flexed; but inverted instead of everted, and adducted instead of abducted, a change of position which has been variously attributed to erosion of the posterior part of the acetabulum, a yielding of the ligaments, or exhaustion of the external rotator and abductor muscles. To overcome this position of adduction in which the limb is useless, the pelvis is raised on the affected side, so that the limb if brought parallel to the other, now appears slightly shortened (Fig. 70, c and d) in place of being lengthened. Whilst the position of abduction and adduc- tion is overcome by depressing or raising the pelvis respectively on the affected side, i.e., by laterally ben die g the lumbar spine, flexion is overcome by rolling the pelvis forward, i,e , by increasing the normal lumbar curve.