743 ATONY AIS'D PARALYSIS. at rest by perineal cystotomy and subsequent drainage for some weeks.. Irritability of the bladder, by wbich. is meant a too frequent passing of water, is often spoken of as a disease ; but is no more so than is pain, since it is only a symptom either of disease of the urinary organs, or of some general state of the system, as hysteria, Bright's disease, &c. The cause should be sought and treated. Inversion- of the bladder, and hernia of the bladder, are both very rare, and are not here described. Atony and paralysis of the bladder. Both these terms are applied to a want of sufficient contractile power in the muscular coat to expel the contents of the bladder; but in atony the want of power is the result of loss of tone in the muscular fibres, while paralysis is due to the failure of nervous influence. Both conditions must be dis tinguished from the mere inability of the bladder to empty itself on account of obstruction to its outlet. (See Retention). Atony may be due to, 1. Simple over-distension, conse- quent upon the patient having voluntarily or compul- sorily held his urine for too long a period, whereby the musular fibres are over-stretched and unable to recover themselves. 2. It may be the result of gradual dis- tension owing to enlarged prostate or stricture. In con- sequence of the obstruction, the bladder does not empty itself, but some urine remains after every act of mic- turition ; the amount retained gradually increases, the bladder becomes distended, and its fibres, if the patient is old, become stretched, and lose their tone instead of becoming hypertrophied as commonly happens in a young and healthy person. 3. Again, atony may be due to cystitis, owing to the inflammation having spread to the muscular coat, which then undergoes fibroid or fatty changes. Symptoms.—The patient complains of inability to hold his urine, or that it constantly dribbles away, or that he has to pass it very frequently. The involuntary flow' occurs at first during sleep; afterwards on any exertion causing contraction of the abdominal muscles. These symptoms, although often spoken of as incontinence, are really those of retention, the bladder being fully distended, but unable to empty itself, and the excess flowing in- voluntarily away. The treatment consists in passing a catheter at regular