297 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. a mucous canal there will be sudden haemoptysis in the case of the trachea or bronchus, hsematemesis in the case of the oesophagus or stomach, melsena, if the patient lives long enough, in the case of the intestine. 3. If the blood is effused into the tissues, there will be pain, faintness, loss of pulsation and bruit, rapid increase in the size of the swelling, oedema, coldness, and cessation of the pulse in the parts below, followed by increasing syncope from loss of blood, or if death does not soon occur, by gangrene. 4. Eupture externally is yery rare ; the signs are evident. Diagnosis.—An aneurysm may have to be diagnosed from simple dilatation of an artery, an abscess or tumour over an artery, a pulsatile tumour of bone, and enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland. In a simple dilatation, there is an absence of bruit. In an abscess or tumour over an artery, the pulsation is not expansile, there is no bruit, and the swelling is not emptied or made less tense on compressing the artery above. A tumour can often be lifted from the vessel. In the case of an abscess, there will probably be a history or signs of previous inflamma- tion. In a tumour raising an artery over it, the pulsation is only felt in the course of the artery, and there is no expansile pulsation in the swelling. In pulsatile tumour of bone, the pulsation is not equally expansile all oyer; and although pulsation is stopped on compressing the artery above, the swelling does not become smaller like an aneurysm, or refill on removal of the pressure in two or three beats of the heart. Portions of expanded bone may also be felt in parts of the tumour, and there may be glandular enlargement and other signs of malignancy. From an enlarged thyroid gland, a carotid aneurysm may be distinguished by the gland moving with the larynx on deglutition. Treatment.—In no disease, perhaps, has an accurate knowledge of its pathology done more to ensure success in treatment than in aneurysm. The older Surgeons, believing that the clot possessed vicious properties, directed their efforts to the emptying of the sac; and it was not until the fact became fully recognized that Nature's method of curing an aneurysm was by filling the sac with organizable clot, that the lamentable results attending the treatment of aneurysm in olden times gave place to the brilliant successes of modern surgery. Our treatment at the present day is therefore directed rather to aiding or promoting Nature's efforts than to thwarting