DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 280 pressure and movement, and a characteristic creaking sensation. In the acute form suppuration may occa- sionally occur. Treatment.—Best on a splint, painting with tincture of iodine, and strapping will generally suffice. In the acute variety, leeches, or free incision if pus forms, and passive movements to prevent adhesions. In the chronic, counter-irritation in the form of blisters, and pressure by means of strapping followed by elastic support. Ganglion is a simple or compound cyst formed in con- nection with the sheath of a tendon. It is generally due to continued strain or teno-synovitis. A simple ganglion may be produced by—1, the cystic transformation of the cells in the synovial fringes; 2, the dilatation of the sub-synovial follicles; and 3, the pouch-like protrusion of the synovial lining of the tendon through the fibrous sheath, with the subsequent obliteration of the neck of the pouch. Simple ganglia are most common on the extensor tendons at the back of the wrist, but occur in other situations, as the front of the wrist and ankle, and on the sheaths of the flexor tendons near the web of the fingers. They form smooth, generally globular, often translucent, tense or semi-fluctuating moveable swellings, evidently in connection with a tendon, and varying in size from a pea to a pigeon's egg. They contain a clear jelly-like fluid. The only inconvenience to which they give rise is a feeling of weakness in the wrist or fingers; they are seldom attended with pain. Simple ganglia are sometimes simulated by pouch-like protrusions of the synovial membrane of the carpus and tarsus. The deep attachment of these synovial pouches, their non-connec- tion with a tendon, and the concomitant swelling of other parts of the synovial membrane are points which may serve to distinguish them. Treatment.—They may often be broken by pressure with the thumbs; otherwise they may be punctured with a tenotome, the skin being drawn aside to make the opening valvular, and the contents squeezed out. In either case firm pressure must subse- quently be applied by strapping and a bandage. Should they refill, a second puncture may be made, and the interior scarified by the point of the tenotome. This failing, the cyst may be laid open and allowed to granu- late from the bottom, or it may be dissected out. A compound ganglion consists of the dilatation of the sheath of several tendons. It is most common in con- nection with the flexor tendons where they pass under the