622 DISEASES OE HEGlOKS. five rings of tlie trachea, and then the upper border of the sternum. Below the isthmus the trachea recedes from the surface, and in addition to the skin and superficial and deep fascia, is covered by the sterno-thyroids as well as the sterno-hyoids, and by two layers of deep fascia between which is the large inferior thyroid plexus of veins. Superficial to the muscles, the anastomotic branch between the anterior jugular veins also crosses the trachea. On the trachea itself are several small branches from the inferior thyroid arteries, and sometimes the thyroidea ima, an abnormal branch coming ofl from the aorta ; whilst, rarely, the innominate vein may be higher than usual, and cross the trachea above the level of the sternum. On either side of the trachea low in the neck are the carotid arteries. Some Surgeons perform tracheotomy below the isthmus (Fig. 238, e); but a review of these anatomical relations makes it evident how much greater is the risk and difficulty then attending it. Tbacheotomy may be performed either above or below the thyroid isthmus. The former situation should, as a rule, be chosen, as here the operation can be performed with greater ease and less risk. Moreover, there is less danger of suppuration extending between the layers of the cervical fascia which are necessarily opened if the low operation is done. In favour of the low operation, on the other hand, it is argued that the opening is further from the disease when the larynx is affected, and nearer to the bronchi when a foreign body has to be extracted; and that there is more room than above the isthmus, as the latter sometimes touches the cricoid cartilage. The isth- mus, however, can be drawn downwards quite easily with blunt hooks, or, if necessary, may be divided in the middle line with perfect safety and practically no haemor- rhage. If there be any advantage in the low operation in that the trachea is opened further from the disease, it is, in my opinion, fully compensated for by the less risk attending the high operation. The high operation only will be here described. It may be done either with or without chloroform. Chloroform should, as a rule, be given to children, as otherwise their struggles are apt to embarrass the operator. In adults, however, it is not necessary, as after the skin-incision has been made no pain is felt, and chloroform is liable to in- crease the dyspnoea, if present, to a dangerous extent and necessitate the operation being rapidly performed, whereas