435 DISLOCATION OF THE CLAVICLE. The compress should be kept on for about a week. If this fails, or if the patient is not seen until the palm has become infiltrated and sloughy, the brachial artery- should be tied. The anastomosis through the inter- osseous and carpal arteries is so free that ligature of the radial and ulnar is not, as a rule, sufficient to stop the bleeding. Needle in the palm.—It is not infrequent for a needle to run into the hand and be broken oft'. If it can be felt it should be cautiously cut down upon and ex- tracted with forceps, care being taken not to push it in further, and so lose it in the attempt. If it cannot be felt, an exploratory incision should on no account be made, as the needle will probably do no harm in the tissues and in course of time will work its way to the surface, whilst a search for it may be attended with irreparable damage. A galvanometer has occasionally been used for its discovery with success. In smashes of the hand requiring operative inter- ference the thumb and as many fingers—indeed as much of the hand—as possible, should be saved. Dislocations of the Upper Extremity, Dislocations of the clavicle.—I. The sternal end may be dislocated, 1, forwards; 2, upwards; and, 3, backwards. Cause.—The forward and the upward dis- locations are produced by indirect violence, such as a blow or fall upon the front or top of the shoulder; the backward variety either directly by force applied to the sternal end, or indirectly by a blow or fall on the hack of the shoulder. Displacement.—In the forward dislocation the end of the bone lies in front of the sternum, in the upiuard it lies in the suprasternal notch touching the opposite clavicle, in the hackiuard between the sternum and the trachea. Signs.—In the forward dislocation (Fig. 125)' the end of the bone can be felt in its abnormal situation, and can be distinguished from fracture near the sternal end by the length of the clavicle being the same on the two sides, and by the absence of crepitus. The upward variety, which is very rare, may be diagnosed in the same way. In the backward, which is also rare, there is a depression at the situation of the sterno-clavicular joint, and there may be dyspnoea, dysphagia, or congestion of F F 2