DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 326 four inclies long parallel, and half an inch posterior to the inner border of the tibia (Fig. 92 e). Divide only the skin and superi&cial fascia in the first incision to avoid injuring the long saphenous vein. Then divide the deep fascia and draw the gastrocnemius, if seen, backwards; cut through the tibial origin of the soleus, and the inter- muscular fascia will be exposed. Divide this on a direc- tor, and the artery will be found lying on the tibialis posticus with the nerve to its outer side. Ligature of the posterior tibial in its upper third can hardly be required, except for a wound which should then be enlarged longi- tudinally until sufficient room is obtained. At the ankle. —Make a curved incision over the artery a finger's breadth behind and below the internal malleolus. Divide the superficial and deep fascia and the internal annular ligament, and the artery will be found between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus poUicis with the nerve to its outer side. For collateral circulation, see Pig. 91. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY.—A line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to midway between the two malleoli indicates the course of the vessel. In the upper third make an incision about five inches long in the line of the artery (Fig. 92 c) through the skin and superficial fascia and look for the innermost white line, which indicates the cellular interval between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. Divide the deep fascia over this line on a director; hold the muscles apart by retractors, and the artery will be found on the interosseous membrane with the nerve to its outer side. In the middle third the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius poUicis, and the nerve lies on the artery. I71 the lower third the artery lies between the extensor proprius poUicis and the extensor longus digitorum with the nerve on its outer side. An incision in the line of the artery (Fig. 92 d) and the separation of the muscles is all that is necessary to expose the vessel in either of these situations. For collateral circidation^ see Fig. 91. The dorsalis pedis artery may require ligature for a wound on the dorsum of the foot. I have twice seen it tied for aneurysm of the vessel itself. Make an incision in a line drawn from midway between the two malleoli to the interval between the great and second toes; divide the skin and the superficial and deep fascia, the artery