328 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. and colourless corpuscles equally become entangled in the fibrin. It will fill the whole lumen of the vein, and at first will be soft and gelatinous, and but loosely attached to the vein-wall. When, on the other hand, the clot is formed gradually whilst the blood is in motion, as when the clot is deposited on an unhealthy vein-wall, the clot is laminated, and firmly adherent to the wall, and will be either white or tinged with red, according to the rate at which it is formed. A post-mortem clot may be distin- guished from the above in that it does not adhere to the wall of the vessel, nor as a rule entirely fill its lumen. It is never laminated, although it may consist of two layers, one white and one red. Changes in the thrombus.—1. The clot may become con- verted, together with that portion of the vein in which it is contained into a fibrous cord. Thus it first loses its red colour from the disappearance of the red corpuscles, then becomes firmer, more adherent to the wall of the vein, and finally indistinguishable from it. The minute changes which occur in this process are similar to those already described in the healing of an artery after injury (page 127). 2. The clot may undergo calcification and become converted into a so-called vein-stone or phlebolith, which may either be found free, or attached to the walls by a pedicle. 3. The clot may soften and disintegrate, forming a pultaceous reddish material or a yellowish-red puriform fluid, the latter change being probably due to the action of septic micro-organisms. 4. The clot may shrink to one side of the vein, or become tunnelled by the blood, or it may be slowly carried away by the circulation without causing any mischief. The tunnelling of the clot is brought about by the gradual enlargement of the small vessels which normally permeate the clot during its con- version into a fibrous cord. The effects of thromlosis are, 1. Swelling and oedema of the parts from which the affected vein returned the venous blood. This may completely or partially disap- pear, or it may remain permanent constituting the con- dition known as solid oedema^ according to whether the lumen of the vein is or is not restored, or the collateral channels are sufficient for the requirements of the circu- lation. A good example of oedema from thrombosis is furnished by the so-called white leg, or phlegmasia alba dolens, so common after parturition as the result of the extension of the clot from the uterine veins through the