308 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES, arteries for aneurysm of the innominate ; but tlie success attendmg it has not been great. The chief risks are passive enlargement and subsequent bursting of the sac, or inflammation and suppuration of the sac. 3. The double ligatuee.—^Ligature above and below the sac, either, 1, by the old method of first laying the sac open and then securing the bleeding ends of the artery ; or, 2, by the method of Antyllus, of first securing the artery and then laying the sac open, is only employed in exceptional cases. Thus the old method is sometimes resorted to in traumatic aneurysm of the axillary artery in preference to tying the subclavian, and also in gluteal aneurysm where the Hunterian method of tying the common or internal iliac is attended with such terrible risk. The great danger is the patient dying under the operation of haemorrhage. During the operation, there- fore, in the case of the axillary artery, pressure should be made on the subclavian, an incision through the skin and fascia above the clavicle being made to ensure its better control. In the case of the, gluteal, Davy's lever or the abdominal tourniquet should be used. The true method of Antyllus may, in rare instances, be required as in some forms of aneurysm at the bend of the elbow. Manipulation.-—A spontaneous cure, as we have seen (p. 294), is sometimes brought about by the impaction of a portion of clot either in the mouth of the sac or in the artery below. Manipulation of the sac aims at breaking up and displacing the clot in the hope that a portion may become impacted in this way, and so lead to consolida- tion. Sir William Fergusson, who first introduced this method, used it with success, and others have done so likewise. It is far from being unattended with danger, however, since a portion of the clot may be carried away by the blood-stream and become lodged in a vessel leading to an important organ, as the brain. It should, there- fore, only be tried when other means are impracticable or appear attended with even greater risk. Irritation of the interior of the sac by needles (Macewen's method).—This method aims at so irritating the walls of the aneurysm as to induce slight inflamma- tion and the formation of white thrombus. The skin having been made aseptic, long needles are forced into the sac and the walls systematically scratched all round the aneurysm. It is applicable to aneurysms where pressure or proximal ligature cannot be employed. Con-