41 GANGRENE. The scorhutic ulcer. —Should an ulcer exist in a person affected with scurvy, its surface becomes covered by a spongy, dark-coloured, strongly-adherent foetid crust, the removal of which is attended with free bleeding, and is followed by the rapid reproduction of the same material. The treatment is that for scurvy. Lupous, epitheliomatous, rodent, carcinomatous, and sarco- matous ulcers will be found described in the sections on Lupus, Tumours, &c. GANGBENE OR MORTIEIOATIOIS'. Although gangrene may occur from causes other than inflammation, it is, as we have seen, one of its results, and is therefore described here. It di:ffers from ulceration in that the affected tissue dies en masse instead of in a molecular manner. General outline of the process,—Let us take as our type gangrene as it occurs in a superficial part as the result of inflammation. The part which was previously hot, red, painful, and swelled becomes cold, gradually falling to the temperature of the surrounding medium. The pain, which just before the gangrene sets in, is often of a peculiar burning character, ceases, and sensation is com- pletely lost both to the touch and to other external stimuli. The skin, formerly red, becomes of a peculiar pale earthy colour, mottled in places with patches of green or red. Now the cuticle separates in the form of blebs, or can be removed by gentle rubbing, leaving the dermis below wet and slippery. A peculiar crepitant sensation is felt on pressure, on account of the formation of putrescent gases in the tissues, which, if cut into, are found stained and infiltrated with a reddish fluid. The part next becomes blackish-brown, and exhales the peculiar odour of decomposing animal matter. Supposing the process ceases to spread, ulceration is set up at the expense of the living tissue bordering upon the gan- grenous part; a bright red line (the line of demarcation as it is called) is thus formed between the living and the dead; this deepens, and finally the gangrenous part is thrown off in the form of a sphacelus or slough, leaving a healthy granulating wound which cicatrizes in the usual way. The minute changes which occur during the above process are as follows:—In consequence of the intense