636 DISEASES OF REGIONS. Treatment,—The pressure may sometimes be removed by simply incising the fascia of the neck. Or tracheotomy may be done, and a long tube passed down the trachea beyond the obstruction ; or the isthmus, or one lobe, may be excised. The patient, in the meanwhile, should be removed from the goitrous district. DISEASES OF THE SPINE. Scoliosis or lateral curvature is a complicated distortion in which the spine forms two or more lateral curves with their convexities in opposite directions, whilst the vertebrae involved in the curves are rotated on their vertical axes so that the spinous processes are directed towards the concavity of the curves. Cause.—The immediate cause that underlies the forma- tion of lateral curvature is the unequal compression of the intervertebral cartilages for long periods. This unequal compression may be induced by 1, any condition causing permanent or habitual obliquity of the pelvis and the consequent throwing of the spine over to the opposite side; such as unequal length of the legs, knock-knee, flat-foot, the use of a wooden leg, habit of standing on one leg, sitting crosslegged, congenital dislocation of the hip, &c.; 2, a one-sided position of the body in sitting, standing, or lying, or produced by certain employments, as nursing or carrying with one arm, &c.; 3, contraction of one side of the chest following empyema; 4, unilateral contraction of the spinal muscles following paralysis of the opposing muscles. The conditions mentioned under 1 and 2 are, however, by far the most frequent causes of the deformity. Although lateral curvature may be induced by these causes acting alone, there are certain circumstances that appear especially to predispose to the deformity, by producing a general want of tone in the muscles and structural weak- ness of the ligaments and bones. Such are, 1, here- dity ; 2, general debility; 3, the strumous diathesis; 4, rickets; and 5, rapid growth. It is much more frequently met with in girls than in boys, and is most common from about the age of fourteen to eighteen. Pathology.—The long-continued unequal compression of the intervertebral cartilages causes them to become wedge-shaped, and the portion of the spine corresponding to the compressed cartilages to assume sooner or later