447 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. In dislocation of the ulna backwards the forearm is pro- nated and shortened on the ulnar side, and the olecranon projects backwards, but the head of the radius is felt in its normal situation. Diagnosis.—In moderately thin subjects when seen soon after the accident, attention to the above signs will generally enable the Surgeon to make a diagnosis; but in a few hours the parts become so obscured by swelling about the joint, that it may be impossible to make out the .nature of the injury till it has subsided. In all cases of injury of the elbow the relation of the points of bone to each other should be carefully compared with those of the uninjured side, and the relative position of the olecranon to the condyles should be determined (see Fracture of the loiuer end of the Humerus), Treatment.—The reduction of the common form of dis- location of hoth hones backwards is generally easily accom- plished in recent cases by pressing with the knee in the bend of the elbov\r on the upper part of the radius and ulna to disengage the coronoid process, whilst forcibly but slowly flexing the forearm. As soon as the coronoid process is freed from the olecranon fossa, the muscles generally draw the bones suddenly into position. Pressure upon the humerus by the knee, as recommended by some, should be avoided, as it locks the coronoid process more tightly in the olecranon fossa. If necessary, an anses- thetic should be given. In long-standing cases adhesions must be broken down by forcibly flexing and extending the forearm, and extension may then be made either by the knee, or by an assistant pulling on the wrist, or if this is insufficient, by the pulleys. Six weeks is the period usually given as the time beyond which it is inexpedient to try and reduce the dislocation. This rule, however, admits of some latitude. Thus, an attempt at reduction, when the movement is fairly good, even after less time has elapsed, may be unwise ; while, on the other hand, it may sometimes be made with advantage, especially where there is much rigidity, even at a later period. In disloca- tion of the radius alone^ extension should be made from the hand (so as to act solely on the radius), whilst the elbow-joint is grasped, and the head of the radius pressed into position by the thumb in a forward or backward or inward direction, according to the variety of the disloca- tion. In the other dislocations slight modifications of these methods are required, and will be suggested by a