269 handling. Along with the local signs there are generally sj^mptoras of locomotor ataxia, such as an unsteady gait, a tendency to fall on placing the feet together with the eyes closed, a jerking movement of the limbs, absence of the patella-tendon-refiex, lightning pains, spasmodic muscular contractions, local anaesthesia and sweating of the limbs, loss of response of the pupil to light but no loss of power of accommodating for near objects [Argyll- Bohertsonpupil), sometimes optic neuritis, bladder troubles, and loss of sexual power. The joints most often affected are the knee, hip, and shoulder. In the tarsus the bones on the subsidence of the swelling of the synovial mem- brane, though at first felt to be loosened by the softening of the ligaments, may ultimately become ankylosed. Treatment,—Beyond keeping the part at rest during an acute attack, and adopting the same general treatment as is appropriate for osteo-arthritis and locomotor ataxia, little can be done. To relieve the pain antipyrin and antifebrin may be tried. Suspension has at times been of service. Loose bodies in a joint may be formed in several ways, of which the following are the chief:—1, by the pro- liferation of the cartilage cells that normally exist in the synovial fringes, and the subsequent detachment of the little mass of cartilage so formed throu.gh the rupture of its peduncle in the movements of the joint (Fig. 75); 2, by thickening or hypertrophy of a synovial fringe, or by extravasation and subsequent organization of blood in a synovial fringe, detachment occurring in a manner similar to that in the former case; 3, by necrosis of a portion of the articular cartilages; and 4, by chipping off of a portion of the articular cartilage during some injury to the joint. Loose cartilages are most common in the knee, but may be met with in any joint. They^ are generally single, but may be multiple, and vary in size from a pea to a walnut. Symptoms.—The chief symptom is pain, due to the loose body slipping between the ligaments and articular surfaces during the movements of the joint. In the knee this occurs during flexion; and on the patient attempting to straighten the joint the loose body, by forcing the articular surfaces apart, stretches the ligaments, and thus gives rise to a sudden and excruciating pain, perhaps so severe as to cause him to fall. At times the loose body remains fixed between the articular surfaces, the patient