GEXEHAL PATHOLOGY OF INJUEIES. 122 / very extensive. When the sloughs have separated, and granulation sets in, the wound may be treated as described under simple ulcer, redundant granulations being repressed by nitrate of silver. Skin-grafting is often useful in the fourth decree of burns. The fourth and fifth degrees require the same treatment as the third, but during cicatrization, contraction must be as far as possible prevented by the use of elastic tension, extension- apparatus, splints, &c. Later some form of plastic operation to overcome the efcects of the contractions will often be required. In the sixth degree, amputation, if a limb is affected, will probably sooner or later be called for. Constitutional treatment.—If the shock is severe, stimu- lants in the form of brandy or ammonia should be given according to the state of the pulse, the patient covered with blankets, hot bottles put to the feet, and undue exposure whilst removing the burnt clothes and applying the dressings as much as possible avoided. Opium should be given, especially if there is much pain. As soon as the patient can bear it, fluid nourishment should be substituted for stimulants, as the latter, if given in large quantities, only tend to produce excessive reaction and inflammation. During the second stage, little can be done beyond regulating the bowels and secretions; lower- ing treatment is not well borne, at any rate when the burn is extensive and deep, as the patient will then require all his strength to sustain the drain on his system during the casting off of the sloughs and the long suppu- ration following. The inflammatory fever, moreover, generally assumes, if it is not so from the first, a low type. A stimulating plan of treatment, rather than a depressing, is therefore necessary. In the third stage, the patient's strength should be supported by abundant nourishment and stimulants. Lightning- and Electric-steoke.—Death may be instantaneous, or the stroke, beyond causing temporary unconsciousness, may do no harm. In some instances, superficial or deep burns, or paralysis of certain nerves, as the optic, auditory, &c., have been produced. Of late effects similar to those produced by lightning-stroke have occurred from contact either with wires through which electric currents of high intensity were passing, or with electro-motor apparatus. The treatment consists in apply- ing warmth, artificial respiration, and stimulants whilst