INELAMMATIOI^. 9 inflammation. Unlike the saprophytes, the bacteria which are found in all decomposing fluids, and which as we have seen are unable to exist in the living tissues, the species under consideration are not only capable of living in such tissues, but thrive and multiply in them, and whilst doing so give rise to certain irritating chemical products ['ptomaines) which set up inflammation. Hence their name, infective, parasitic or pathogenic bacteria. They are supposed not only to multiply and spread in the surrounding tissues, setting up inflammation in their course, but also in some instances to enter the system by the blood or by the lymph vessels, where still multiplying, they poison the body generally, and in con- sequence of their becoming lodged in the capillaries of various tissues or organs of the body where they further multiply and thrive, to set up there a like inflammation. The way in which they enter the body is either by a wound direct, or else by the alimentary or respiratory mucous tract. Where they enter by a wound, it appears that decomposition of the discharge favours their entrance (as in erysipelas occurring in a septic wound), though such is not essential. They or their spores are supposed to exist in the air, water, &c., but in less quantities than the saprophytic bacteria, and only occasionally, as, for instance, when a case of specific inflammation to which they give rise is present in the same ward. As the various species of bacteria will have to be frequently mentioned, they may be here briefly described. The bacteria or schizomycetes belong to the group of protophytes, the simplest of vegetable organisms. They are divided into 1, micrococci or spherical bacteria; 2, bacilli or rod-like bacteria; and 3, spirilli or screw-like twisted bacteria. Micrococci are round or oval bodies; they occur singly or in pairs. When in pairs they are called diplococci, an example of which we find in the gonococcus. Sometimes they form chains, and are then termed streptococci, e.g., streptococcus pyogenes; or they may occur in colonies (zooglcea masses), and are then spoken of as staphylococci, the best known being the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. They multiply by fission or division. Bacilli are rod-like microbes of at least more than twice their breadth in length. They multiply by spores as well as by fission. Hence a bacillus may at one period have a rod-like shape, whilst at another period of its development it may be round like a micro-