CHROKIC TUBEECULAR ARTHRITIS. 259 joint. Though most frequent in the young, it may occur at any age. : . Causes.—It is generally attributed to some slight injury of the joint, occurring in a strumous or unhealthy subject; but frequently no history of any such injury is forthcoming. The immediate cause is the presence of the tubercle bacillus which has gained admission to the system in the way described under Tubercle. Fathology.—The disease may begin either as a chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, or as a funga- ting caries of the articular ends of the bones; in the former case, the synovial membrane, which first appears red and injected, gradually becomes thickened and oedematous, and ultimately pulpy and gelatinous and in places fatty looking. The synovial fluid in the meantime becomes turbid or muco-purulent, but is rarely much increased in quantity; the synovial tufts, at first soft and fiocculent, gradually assume the form of spongy granulation-tissue, and grow over the cartilage from the sides till they com- pletely cover it, " lying over it like a veil." Prolongations from this veil of granulations, compared by Billroth to the roots of ivory penetrating a wall, insinuate themselves into and spread in all directions through the cartilage, which they ultimately destroy, and then in like manner invade the bone. The granulation-tissue may also make its way between the bone and the cartilage, and unite with that derived from the synovial membrane, thus leaving por- tions of cartilage loose between the two layers of granula- tions. At the same time, fungous granulations derived from the synovial membrane may invade the tissues around the joint, and undergoing caseous or fatty degeneration in places, break down into abscesses whicli may open both externally and into the joint, leading to the production of sinuses and fistulse. The ligaments being thus softened and destroyed, allow the articular surfaces to be dislocated by the contraction of the muscles; whilst the muscles and bones themselves, partly from want of use and partly from the. debilitating nature of the disease, undergo atrophy and fatty degeneration. When the disease begins in the hone it takes the form of a rare- fying osteitis, the fungating granulations invade the deeper surface of the cartilages, perforate them, and then set up the changes in the synovial membrane and other tissues described above. 'The minute changes which occur during the above-mentioned phenomena are those already s 2