DISEASES OE HEGIONS. 812 the epididymis, the pain and swelling will be chiefly con- fined to the upper and back part: of the testicle—the region of the epididymis—and fluid will often be detected in the tunica vaginalis. The discharge, if the inflammation of the testicle occurs during an attack of gonorrhoea, gene- rally ceases or becomes less when the inflammation is at its height. The local signs are often accompanied by sharp febrile disturbance, raised temperature, furred tongue, nausea or even vomiting, and constipated bowels. Treatment.—When the attack is acute, rest in bed with the testicle supported on a pillow is necessary. Hot fomentations, and in the intervals hot linseed-meal poultices, applied to the testicle and groin, give the most relief. Internally a brisk purge should be given at the onset, followed by saline laxatives and small doses of antimony. If the pain is very severe, opium may be given; or a vein of the scrotum opened; or the tunica vaginalis or testicle punctured to relieve tension either with a needle in several places or with a tenotomy knife. If suppuration occurs, a free incision should be made to let out the pus. In subacute attacks, where the patient is unable to leave his work, a suspensory bandage should be worn. Chrois'ic infla^I]\iatio]S^ of the testicle may be a sequel to the acute disease; or it may begin as a chronic or sub- acute affection, and like the acute form may involve either the body of the testicle or the epididymis, or both. The two chief causes of chronic inflammation are un- doubtedly syphilis and tubercle; but it may occur quite independently of either of these affections, and should hen, for the sake of distinction, be called simple chronic orchitis or epididymitis. The syphilitic and tubercular forms are described separately under those heads. Signs.—The testicle appears enlarged, smooth, laterally compressed, egg-shapecl, hard, heavy, and painful on pressure ; the testicular sensation is not lost; the vas is but slightly thickened; the skin is non-adherent, and the epididymis (except when the disease is limited to that part) is not distinguishable from the body of the organ. In chronic epididymitis an indurated, painful, and tender lump is felt in the situation of the globus minor or major. Treatment.—Mercury or iodide of potassium should be given internally, and strapping applied to the enlarged organ when the body is chiefly affected. In chronic