617 MEMBRANEOUS LARYNGITIS. involved as is the case in diphtheritic inflammation of the fauces and pharynx. This difference would appear to depend on the site of the inflammation and the intensity of the process, though some consider it a point in favour of the non-identity of croup and diphtheria, a question how- ever which cannot here be discussed. The symptoms, when the disease begins in the larynx, generally come on very gradually; and at first cannot be distinguished from an ordinary catarrh. Soon, however, and often first during the night, the cough acquires a ringing or brassy character, and soon afterwards, if not simultaneously, the inspiration becomes stridulous, and later the voice "hoarse, cracked, and whispering, or in young children totally suppressed.'" Dyspnoea is now marked ; the soft parts of the chest-walls recede during inspiration; the inspiration is heaving; expiration as well as inspira- tion may also become impeded, and the child, if not relieved, rapidly becomes cyanosed and dies. When the disease spreads from the pharynx, the laryngeal signs may at first be masked; but later, they are similar to those given above. Treatment,—Internally quinine and perchloride of iron may be given, whilst locally when any membrane is visible on the fauces and pharynx it should be removed, and prevented, if possible, from re-forming by swabbing out the throat at frequent intervals with boro- glyceride, carbolic acid, or other disinfectant. The child may be placed under chloroform, if necessary, to ensure the thorough removal of the membrane. Should the larynx become obstructed, tracheotomy must be per- formed. The chief indications for this operation are 1, retrocession of the soft parts of the chest walls, 2, sup- pression of the voice, and especially 3, impeded expiration. Before introducing the tracheotomy-tube the membrane should be thoroughly removed both from the trachea and larynx by a feather or by the suction-tube apparatus, and its re-formation if possible prevented by constant spraying of the part through the tube with an alkaline lotion. The patient's bed should be surrounded with curtains, and the atmosphere kept moist by steam to which an antiseptic is added. He should be fed with soft solid nourishment, and if necessary by a flexible silk tube passed through the nose. Stimulants are generally required. The recumbent posture should be insisted on, as there is grave danger, if the patient attempts to sit up, of sudden and fatal cardiac syncope.