662 DISEASES OF BEGIONS. surgery is to have a fair chance of saving the patient. Thus in acute cases, nothing should be given by the mouth save small pieces of ice to suck, the stomach should be emptied by irrigation with warm water with the syphon stomach tube, and the patient placed under the influence of morphia injected subcutaneously. An enema may be given, but purgatives must of course be avoided. The relief, however, obtained by these means is often deceptive, and if the obstruction continues it is worse than useless to waste further time in giving drugs. It is better at once to open and explore the abdomen before irreparable harm has been done. If when first seen the patient is already collapsed and his condition such that he could not bear the shock attending exploration, a small incision may be made through the abdominal wall, and the first piece of distended intestine that presents secured to the edges of the wound, and opened [Enterotomy). In chronic cases, the diet should be restricted, only small quantities of the most digestible food being given at a time, and as soon as a diagnosis can be made, measures should of course be taken for relieving, if practicable, the obstruction. 1. In impacted faeces when medical means and enemata have failed, the rectum may require clearing with a scoop or other suitable instrument. In obstruction from im- pacted gall-stones or other foreign bodies, after the usual remedies have been unsuccessful, the abdomen may be opened, and the gall-stone or foreign body removed through an incision in the intestine, or else made to pass by gentle manipulation through the ileo-csecal valve. The incision should be made in the longitudinal axis of the gut, and not opposite the impacted body where the coats may be damaged, but a few inches lower down. The gall- stone or other body may then be removed, breaking it first if necessary, and the wound be afterwards united by Lem- bert's suture. Or should the walls of the gut be softened by ulceration, a portion of the intestine may be resected, and the continuity of the tube restored by circular enteror- rhaphy or by means of Senn's bone plates (see page 417). An impacted gall-stone may sometimes be broken up with a needle without opening the intestine. 2. In internal strangulation, abdominal section is the only procedure of any avail, and ought, like herniotomy, to be undertaken early and not merely as a last resource (see Laparotomy),