814 DISEASES OF REGION'S. occur in the body. The inflammatory products infiltrating the epididymis and testicle, have a great tendency to undergo caseation, forming the yellow masses of cheesy- looking material so characteristic of the disease (Fig. 316). Signs.—The disease usually begins very insidiously and with little pain. The epididymis, especially the head, and later the body of the testicle, are found enlarged. The testicle is usually but slightly tender on handling, and the testicular sensation is not lost; a hydrocele may be present, or part of the tunica vaginalis may be obliterated. Subsequently the cord, especially the vas, becomes thickened and the skin adherent; whilst still later, the skin may give way and a fungus composed of the in- filtrated tubules protrude, or a discharging sinus be produced. The vesiculse seminales or prostate may now be felt enlarged on examining by the rectum, and bladder or urinary troubles may set in; whilst symptoms of tubercle in the lung, larynx or other organs may super- vene and the patient succumb to tubercular disease. At other times no constitutional signs manifest themselves, and the patient may completely recover. Diagnosis,—From syphilitic orchitis it may generally be distinguished by the enlargement of the epididymis, thickening of the cord, adhesion of the skin, enlargement of the vesiculse seminales, and concomitant signs of tubercle elsewhere. Treatment.—In the early stages, before the vas or vesi- culse seminales have become involved, some Surgeons advise the removal of the organ for the purpose of pre- venting, if possible, general dissemination of the disease, and where both testicles are affected, even the removal of both. Others, however, rely on constitutional treatment, and only advise the removal of the testicle should it be- come destroyed by the disease. If the vesiculse semi- nales are found a:ftected in the early stages, or signs of tubercle are discovered in other parts, the testicle should of course on no account be excised. The constitutional treatment is that already described under Struma and Tubercle (p. 49). The local treatment consists in suspen- sion of the organ, avoidance of horse or other violent exercise, and recumbency during an exacerbation of the inflammation. Should the tubercle soften and suppura- tion occur, the abscess must be opened and the wound dressed with iodoform or other antiseptic. If intractable sinuses remain, they should be scraped with a Volkmann's