423 TRAUMATIC PERITONITIS. inspiration, and on cougliing, with perhaps vomiting, and a slight rise of temperature, followed should an abscess form by a circumscribed swelling, rigors, and fever. In the diffuse variety the pain, which at first may be localized to the seat of wound or injury, becomes general and of a lancinating character, and so increased by the slightest pressure that the weight of the bedclothes in a severe case cannot be borne. The patient lies on his back with his legs drawn up to relax the abdominal parietes, his bxeathing being entirely thoracic. The abdomen is at first hard owing to the spasmodic contrac- tion of the muscles, but soon becomes distended and tympanitic, the paralysis of the muscular coat of the in- testines allowing them to become inflated with gas. Later, as effusion occurs, the abdomen becomes dull in the flanks. The general symptoms are obstinate vomit- ing, complete constipation, hiccough, a furred, dry, and brown tongue, and a small, quick, and wiry pulse. The temperature may register 103° or 104°, but it generally falls before death, or may remain little, if at all, raised throughout. The treatment may be divided into the preventive and the curative. Preventive treatment consists in the prompt removal, where practicable, of the conditions which, if allowed to continue, are virtually certain to be followed by inflammation; and subsequently in keeping the patient at absolute rest and allowing nothing to be taken by the mouth save small quantities of ice. By most Surgeons opium in small and repeated doses is given; but by others the drug is only used if there is much pain, as it tends to restrain absorption from the peritoneal sur- face, and excretion from the intestines. Mr. Tait, on the first signs of peritonitis, orders a turpentine enema and a saline purgative, with a view to cause the absorption of any serum that may have collected in the peritoneum. This treatment is advancing in favour, but it should be borne in mind that it ought never to be employed when there is any serious obstruction in the intestines; in such cases it could only do harm. Where the abdomen has been closed, as after an ovariotomy, the wound may at times be opened with advantage, the peritoneum washed out and a glass drainage-tube inserted. In the way of curative treatment the only chance for the patient where the inflammation depends on such causes as those above mentioned, is at once to freely open the abdomen,