DISEASES OE REGIONS. 792 bladder. The bladder itself, unless greatly bypertropbied and contracted rises out of tbe pelvis and may be felt as a distinct tumour, dull to percussion, and at times ex- tending as bigb as tbe umbilicus, or in extreme cases even to tbe ensiform cartilage. Tbe patient, unless drunk, usually complains of inability to pass water. Wben, bowever, tbe bladder bas become gradually distended and urine is passively flowing away, be may complain of inability to bold bis water and be quite unaware tbat tbe bladder is full, and may object to bave a catbeter passed till tbe condition bas been explained. Tbe presence of a swelling in tbe abdomen, and tbe flowing of urine tbrougb tbe catbeter immediately after tbe patient bas passed water and believes tbat be bas emptied bis bladder, sbould serve for tbe diagnosis. In suppression, tbe bladder is found empty on passing a catbeter. Results of retention.—If tbe bladder is soon relieved no apparent barm may ensue. If neglected, bowever, tbe over-distension may lead to—1, atony of tbe muscular coat; 2, cystitis; 3, nepbritis; 4, rupture of tbe uretbra bebind tbe obstruction; 5, (rarelj^), rupture of tbe bladder itself; and, 6, passive overflow of urine, tbe bladder remaining full. Treatment.—Tbe distended bladder must be relieved, and if tbe distension is extreme and tbe symptoms urgent, at once. Tbe way of doing tbis will vary according to tbe cause, and will be considered under tbe following beads:— 1. Retention from spasm of the tmstriped fibres sur- rounding tbe uretbra, sometimes called spasmodic stricture. Spasm is rarely, if ever, suflicient, alone, to cause reten- tion. Generally some sligbt organic narrowing of tbe uretbra is also present. Tbe usual bistory of retention from spasm is a drinking bout, or exposure to cold or wet in a gouty or rbeumatic subject; wbile on careful questioning, tbe patient admits tbat tbe stream bas been noticed to be small or forked, or tbat a similar attack of retention bas previously occurred. If tbe retention bas existed for some time, and tbere is mucb pain and considerable distension of tbe bladder, a full- sized flexible catbeter (No. 8 or 9) sbould be passed, if necessary under cbloroform. Wben, bowever, tbe symptoms are not urgent, and an instrument bas never been passed, a bot batb and a full dose of tincture of opium will generally suffice, In retention due to spasm