549 DISEASES THE OTlBlT. the anterior chamber, cataract operations, intraocular tumours, and intraocular haemorrhage. The treatment of acute glaucoma is by instillation of eserine (especially if the attack is caused by atropine) or by a large iridectomy, as much as one-fifth of the iris being removed. Several other operations have been recom- mended, as sclerotomy, &c. In glaucoma ahsolutum punc- ture of the sclerotic often relieves the pain. In subacute cases iridectomy is generally indicated, but in chronic glaucoma without tension operative procedure probably does little good. YIII. jbiseases of the orbit. SuBCONJUNCTiYAL HEMORRHAGE, due to a blow on the eye or to rupture of a small vessel, owing to cough, &c., is of a bright red colour. The blood effusion is more marked anteriorlf- and does not pass far back. Exactly the converse as to the position of the blood applies to deep orbital hsemorrhage following fracture of the anterior fossa of the skull, &c. Orbital abscess and orbital cellulitis, when acute, are difficult to diagnose from each other. Though often tra.umatic they may be due to cold, irritation of a tooth, erysipelas, pyaemia, &c. , They sometimes originate in periostitis. They are usually characterized by swelling of the lids, chemosis of the conjunctiva, pain on move- ments of the eye and on pressing back the eyeball, limitation of the ocular movements, facial neuralgia, and proptosis; sometimes there is a defined, tender, fluctuat- ing swelling. If the symptoms are not soon relieved, especially in orbital cellulitis, papillitis and atrophy of the optic nerve may ensue, and also meningitis. Orbital abscess may be chronic and simulate a solid tumour. The treatment consists in early evacuation of the pus, hot fomentations and constitutional remedies. Tumours oe the orbit usually cause protrusion of the . eye (proptosis), impairment of its movements, and papillitis or optic atrophy. Generally one orbit only is affected. The origin of an orbital tumour may be primary, in the lachrymal gland, in the loose orbital tissues, in the peri- osteum, in the eyeball or in the optic nerve; or secondary, starting from a neighbouring cavity. The primary tumours may be cystic (hydatid, dermoid); osseous (ivory exostosis), sarcomatous, and vascular (nsevi). Amongst