DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 342 on the face, a draught of cold air, taking food, &c. The pathology of it is quite unknown. Simple Pleural- gia, i.e., pain, the cause of which is not apparent, often simulates organic disease. Thus, pain in the course of an intercostal nerve may simulate pleurisy; neuralgia in a joint, joint-disease. It may be distinguished from such by the absence of signs of inflammation, of deep- seated pain, and of swelling and deformity; by the presence of increased cutaneous sensibility; and often by the fact that firm pressure relieves it. Sciatica, or pain in the course of the sciatic nerve, may be a simple neuralgia, depending upon some central and unknown cause ; or it may be due to a neuritis set up by cold, or a blow causing local effusion in the nerve-sheath or an adhesion between the nerve and its sheath, a spiculum of bone or exostosis pressing upon the nerve especially in its passage through the great sciatic notch, a foreign body in the thigh, pelvic inflammation in connection with pregnancy, or the pressure of a tumour. "When due to a neuritis it is accompanied by more or less muscular atrophy. Treatment.—The first indication is to remove the cause, for which a careful search should be made. Thus, carious teeth should be extracted, foreign bodies removed, &c.; the general health improved by tonics, iron, quinine, fresh air, &c. ; and gouty, rheumatic, or other constitu- tional diatheses combated by appropriate means. When no cause can be discovered, the treatment must necessarily be empirical; and when one remedy fails, another must be tried. Thus, internally, quinine in large doses, arsenic, aconitine beginning with ^ grain, nitro- glycerine in one minim doses of a one per cent, solution, croton-chloral, gelsemium, tonga, antipyrin and phos- phorus, may successively be given. Locally, the part may be painted with liniment of aconite or rubbed with oint- ment of aconitine ; or the actual cautery, or small blisters applied over the course of the nerve; or morphia or osmic acid injected subcutaneously. In simple neuralgia of the sciatic nerve the continuous current with the positive rheophore applied over the sacro-iliac synchondrosis and the negative in a vessel of salt and water in which the foot is placed is often of great benefit. Neurotomy, or dividing the nerve, and neurectomy, or cutting a piece out of the nerve, have long been practised for obstinate trige- minal neuralgia, but are attended with but very tempo-