24S t>ISEASES OF SPECIAL llSStTES. several or many years, and possibly not at all. A variety called parostealy in which the sarcoma involves the outer layers only of the periosteum, has been described. Symptoms^—In a typical case of periosteal sarcoma there will be a rapidly growing tumour, evidently connected with the bone, not as a rule painful, nor usually attended with heat, oedema, redness, or increase of body tempera- ture. The swelling is soft and semi-fluctuating or boggy, sometimes indistinguishable by touch from an abscess; or hard in some parts, soft in others, or, if ossifying, uniformly hard all over. The superficial veins may be tortuous and dilated, and the neighbouring lymphatic glands enlarged. The patient, who is usually young, frequently complains of having lost both weight and strength, although till later there may be no cachexia. Often there is a distinct history of the growth having appeared some time after an injury of the part, and it is probable in some cases such may be the cause of the growth. The endosteal are of much slower growth, and are generally accompanied by boring pain whilst the bone is being expanded. Sooner or later they give rise to a more or less uniform swelling, generally of the articular end of one of the long bones, and as the shell of bone becomes thinned a peculiar sensation, known as egg-shell crackling, may sometimes be felt on palpation. After they have protruded from the bone they present similar signs to the periosteal, and at times distinctly pulsate, especially when connected with the pelvic bones. They may then be mistaken for an aneurysm. diagnosis,—The above signs will commonly serve to distinguish a sarcoma from an innocent tumour of bone. From an inflammatory affection, such as subacute periostitis or osteitis, quiet necrosis, or an abscess in the interior of the bone, it is sometimes very difficult to diagnose a sarcoma. The absence of signs of inflamma- tion, or increased body temperature, of oedema, and of pain on pressure, point strongly to the swelling being of a sarcomatous nature. But these signs may be present in large and rapidly-growing sarcomata, and may be but faintly marked, or not apparent, in inflammatory affections. A steady increase of the growth whilst under observation, notwithstanding rest and appropriate remedies for inflammation, the gradual loss of weight and strength, and the unequal consistency and irregular surface of the swelling are more certain indications of its malignancy;