DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 276 limb on a splint in the flexed position. Callender's splint is one of the best for the purpose, as it permits of passive motion not onl}^ in the direction of flexion and extension, but also in that of pronation and supination, and that without removing the arm from the splint. It also allows of the limb being slung by pulleys from the ceiling, which is much more comfortable for the patient than placing it on a pillow. Passive movements should be begun at the end of the first week, the aim of the surgeon being to obtain a moveable joint. The weist may be excised for chronic disease of the wrist and carpal joints. The operation is very successful in suitable cases; these, however, are rarely met with, as if the disease is extensive, it is as a rule better to amputate, and if limited, gouging away the diseased bone will generally suffice. The ojperatioii usually done is that now known as Lister's. It consists in removing all the bones of the carpus, the bases of the metacarpal bones, and the lower end of the radius and ulna, the incisions being so planned as to avoid cutting the numerous tendons surrounding the joint and the radial artery. As the operation is rarely performed, further details will not be given. The hip may be excised—(1) when the head of the bone has become necrosed, and lies loose in the joint; (2) when suppuration continues in spite of free drainage and antisep- tics ; (3) when in addition to suppuration the head of the bone is dislocated, and the limb cannot be placed in a useful position. Excision should not be done when there is extensive disease of the pelvis or femur, or signs of lardaceous disease or of phthisis. Under these circum- stances amputation is the only resource. For ankylosis in a faulty position subcutaneous osteotomy of the neck of the femur or of the shaft of the bone below the trochanters is preferable to excision. The operation.—1. By the posterior incision. Make a slightly curved incision about four inches long behind the great trochanter, and after dividing the glutei, open the capsule, insert the finger, and with this as a guide, saw through the neck of the femur with Adams's saw, or Gowan's osteotome, and re- move the head thus detached with sequestrum forceps. The trochanter should be spared if possible. It is important to avoid protruding the end of the bone out of the wound since the periosteum may in this w^ay be stripped up and thus lead to further necrosis. Exa-