OSTEITIS. 22o osteitis as here employed refers to a dironic or subacute inflammation of bone, acute inflammation of bone being practically indistinguishable from acute osteo-myelitis or periostitis, under which it is included. The causes may be predisposing and exciting. Among the former may be mentioned syphilis, tubercle, and rheumatism; among the latter any local injury, and exposure to cold damp, or malarial influences. Fathology.—As in inflammation of soft parts, the first stage of osteitis is one of increased vascularity, the bone appearing red and injected from dila- tation of the blood-vessels in the Haversian canals. Next, exudation and escape of leucocytes take place into the delicate connective tissue occupying the space between the blood-vessels and the bony walls of the Haversian canals and cancelli respectively, and the cells of the con- nective tissue itself also undergo proli- feration. The earthy salts are loosened from their connection with the animal matter, and the bone lamellae and trabeculse are softened, eaten into as it were, and absorbed by the pressure of the inflammatory material which here, as, elsewhere, assumes the form of a small-cell-exudation [granulation- tissue). The bone is destroyed irregu- larly, appearing crescentically eaten out into spaces known as Hoioship's lacimce, in each of which, and imme- diately in contact with the bone, are found large cells (osteoclasts^ contain- ing many nuclei. It is believed that these osteoclasts, which are in some way derived from the inflammatory exudation, take an important though unknown part in the absorption of the bone. The bone-corpuscles themselves are generally thought to be entirely passive, and to take no part in the rarefying process. In this way the Haversian canals and cancelli become dilated, the compact bone being thus converted into cancellous, and the cancellous further widened out (see Fig. 49). The periosteum and medullary membrane generally appear thickened. In inflammation FiG.49.—Rarefying osteitis. (St. Bar- tholomew's Hos- pital Museum.)