206 mjUEIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES, (c) . Wounds of medium-sized arteries, as tlie radial and tibials, are attended when the vessel is completely and evenly divided by sharp haemorrhage, followed by syncope, and temporary arrest from the formation of a clot. The artery may then become permanently occluded; usually, however, as the heart's power is restored the clot is washed away and hsemorrhage recurs. In this way haemorrhages, alternating with temporary arrests, con- tinue until death ensues from exhaustion. When the edges of the wound are uneven, or the artery is only partially divided, the effects are similar in each case to those described above in arteries of larger size. (d) . Wounds of small arteries.—If the artery is completely divided it will usually become occluded in the way de- scribed under nature's method of arresting haemorrhage (p. 126); but if onlj partially divided such occlusion does not as a rule take place, and repeated haemorrhages follow. Complete division will then often suffice to cause its occlusion, a plan which was frequently resorted to when bleeding from the temporal was practised. When the wound through the soft tissues leading to a wounded artery is small or of a punctured character, the superficial part of the wound may close, whilst the blood continues to be extravasated from the wounded vessel into the deeper part, where it may become encysted from the condensation of the soft tissues around [circumscribed traumatic aneurysm). Treatment oe wounded arteries.—1. When an artery is seen spouting in an open wound a ligature should at once be applied to the bleeding end. Other methods of securing the vessel, as torsion or acupressure, may of course be used if preferred ; but as the ligature is almost invariably used at my own School, I shall, to prevent repetition of what has been already said under arrest of haemorrhage (p. 129), speak of ligature only in the context. 2. When the end of a large artery is seen pulsating, but not bleeding in consequence of it having been torn across, I should, myself, apply a ligature to it as a precaution, though by some this would not be considered necessary. 3. When an artery is exposed for some distance in its continuity two ligatures had better as a rule be applied and the artery divided between them, especially if it be notched or bruised. 4. When an artery has ceased to bleed, even though the