TREATMENT OF TALIPES. 859 to the pelvis. In very severe cases the ligaments on the inner side of the sole and the posterior ligament of the ankle may be divided subcutaneonsly, as suggested by Mr. E. W. Parker {syndesmotomy); or, if this is not enough, the whole of the soft tissues on the inner side of the sole may be divided subcutaneonsly down to the bone {Buchanan's operation), or the contracted tendons and ligaments below and in front of the internal malleolus may be divided by an open incision [Phelps' operation), or as a last resource a wedge-shaped piece from the trans- verse tarsal joint, or the astragalus, may be removed. In talipes calcaneus, the extensor tendons, in the congenital form, must be divided if the foot cannot be rectified by plaster of Paris alone. In the acquired form a boot and irons, similar to that used in equinus but with a toe-depressing spring, may be worn. In paralytic cases the tendo Achillis may in some instances be shortened by removing half an inch or more and splicing the divided ends. In talipes valgus or flat-foot, such Fig. 333.—Author s exercises as alternately raising the boot for flat-foot, body on tip-toe, or walking on the outer edge of the foot, will in slight cases of the acquired variety when combined with the use of a valgus pad and a properly shaped boot, generally be successful. In severer cases a boot with outside leg-iron and rubber band to brace up the sunken arch (Pig. 333), should be worn; whilst where there is much rigidity, the foot should be wrenched into position with the patient under an anaes- thetic and placed in plaster of Paris for a month. The wrenching may be repeated if necessary, and the boot above described subsequently worn. In very severe cases excision of Chopart's jomt {Ogston's operation), the removal of a wedge-shaped piece of the neck of the astragalus and osteotomy of the tibia just above the ankle have been performed, and are said to be at- tended with success. I have on only one occasion had to do Ogston's operation, having always found wrench- ing sufficient. By some Surgeons, division of the peronei tendons is recommended, a procedure which in my opinion is quite unnecessary, and contrary to the prin-