TRACHEOTOMY. 625 4. One or more large veins may he luoanded, and the steps of the operation be considerably impeded by hsemor- rhage. Their walls are very thin, great care therefore is necessary to avoid injuring them. 5. The knife may perforate the posterior ivall of the trachea and enter the oesophagus. Caution, therefore, is necessary, and some advise that the knife should be held, whilst incising the trachea, with the forefinger placed on one side half an inch from its point, so that it cannot penetrate too deeply. 6. The knife raay slip to one side, instead of entering the trachea. This can hardly happen if the trachea is fixed by the sharp hook and drawn well forward into the wound whilst being perforated. 7. The innominate vein and even the innominate artery have been luounded in incising the trachea during the performance of the low operation. The knife, therefore, should be introduced with the back of the blade to- wards the sternum, and the incision made from below upwards. 8. Blood may enter the trachea, and if allowed to remain there will coagulate, and the clots being drawn into the bronchi and acting as plugs may cause suffocation. This danger should be guarded against by tying all bleeding ! vessels, and thoroughly exposing the trachea before in- cising it, lest there should be a vessel in front of it. I Should only a little blood enter the trachea, it can be I coughed up ; but if the amount is large, the patient should be turned on his side, and the head depressed, the j wound of course being held open by retractors, to allow ! it to run out; or if this does not sufiice, an attempt I must be made to remove it by suction. When there is a general oozing of blood from the wound, the introduc- tion of the tube will prevent more escaping into the trachea. 9. The tracheotomy tube may he forced hetween the fascia j and the front wall of the trachea ; or one valve of the tuhe ! may he passed inside the trachea, and the other outside,— To escape these accidents, the incision in the trachea j should be free, and its edges well retracted, or one edge ! may be held up by a sharp hook. To ensure both valves entering the trachea, they should be pressed well to- gether ; this may be conveniently done by Sankey's forceps ! (Fig. 240). 10. The tuhe, ivhere a memhrane is present, may he passed w. •S s