816 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. borne out. The gummatous masses may clear up under treatment, but where the constitution is impaired they are liable to break down and suppurate. The typical appear- ance of a gummatous testicle on section is seen in Fig. 317. The organ is occupied by large yellowish-white nodules of a tough, fibrous, non-vascular material; some of the gummata are distinct; the remainder have coalesced into a mass which occupies the anterior part of the organ, A loose fibroid tissue, which is very vascular and of a pink colour in the original specimen, surrounds and separates the nodules. Signs,—Syphilitic disease is very insidious and painless in its onset, the testicle often attaining some size before the patient's attention is directed to it. The testicle is enlarged, very hard, not tender on handling, and, as a rule, absolutely painless; the testicular sensation is completely lost; the skin is not involved, but appears natural, and is freely moveable over the swelling. The signs, however, vary somewhat according to the stage of syphilis at which the testicle is affected. Thus, in the secondary stages, the testicle is smooth, oval, and often laterally compressed ; in the tertiary, nodular and irregular, and the tunica vagina- lis frequently contains fluid [vaginal hydrocele). In the secondary, usually both testicles are affected; in the ter- tiary, often only one. In the tertiary, moreover, the gummata, in neglected cases, or where the constitution is undermined, may break down, the skin become involved in the inflammation and give way, and a sore having the characters of a tertiary syphilitic ulcer, result. More rarely a fungus may protrude. The characters of the secondary and tertiary disease, however, often merge into each other. A syphilitic testicle may have to be diagnosed from simple orchitis and from tubercular disease. The freedom of the cord and epididymis, the absence of all pain and tenderness on handling, the loss of testicular sensation, the hardness of the organ, the non-implication of the skin, the presence of a vaginal hydrocele, the history of syphilis, the fact that the patient has not had gonorrhoea or a previous attack of acute orchitis, nor received an injury to the testicle, and the absence of signs of tubercle in other organs, point to the disease being of a syphilitic origin. It must not be forgotten, however, that syphilis may occur in a strumous subject; and that the characters of the two affections may then be more or less combined.