DISEASES OE REGIONS. 682 (/)> ^ portion of intestine (as the csecnm) having de- scended uncovered with peritoneum on one aspect, the uncovered portion forming adhesions with the tissues around it where the sac is absent. The symptoms are similar to those of the reducible form, save that the hernia cannot be completely reduced. Thus, there is impulse on coughing, non-translucency, and when it contains intestine, gurgling on handling, and resonance on percussion. It is, moreover, often attended with dragging or colicky pains and dyspeptic symptoms. When its contents are both intestine and omentum, the intestine can sometimes be returned. A consideration of the above signs should serve to distinguish it from a protect it from injury and prevent it from getting bigger by the descent of more intestine or omentum; and, 2, if possible, to render it reducible. For the first purpose the patient should wear a bag truss (Fig. 261), or the lace-up truss. Trusses are often difficult to adjust. Under such circumstances a cast of the parts should be taken in plaster of Paris, and to this any instrument-maker can then accurately mould the truss. When the patient will submit, an attempt may be made to convert the hernia into a reducible one; and if persevered in will frequently, especially in recent herniae, be successful. The patient should maintain the horizontal position, the diet should be restricted, saline purgatives given, and ice occasionally applied to the part, or continuous pressure may be kept on the hernia by means of the hinge-cup truss. The treat- ment will, of course, only be successful when the irre- ducibility depends upon removable causes, such as an in- crease in the bulk of the omentum or intestine. When hydrocele extending high up the cord with which it is perhaps most likely to be confounded. Fig. 261.—Bag truss for irreducible hernia. Treatment. — An irreducible hernia often attains a large size, and is not only on this account a constant source of annoyance to the patient, but is also one of danger as there is always a risk of its becoming obstructed, strangulated, or inflamed, or ruptured by accidental blows, &c. The treatment may be di- rected to one of two ends : 1, to