DISEASES OF EEGIONS. 684 for the whole circumference of the bowel to be included in the stricture. An inclusion of only a small portion of its circumference [Richter^s hernia sometimes incorrectly called Littre^s hernia), in consequence of the venous con- gestion and subsequent inflammation which it induces, is sufficient. Indeed, symptoms of strangulation are said to occur when omentum only is contained in the hernia, a fact somewhat difficult to explain, as constriction of omentum by a tight ligature certainly gives rise to no symptoms. It is possible that in these cases the signs of strangulation have depended on reflex irritation of the omental nerves, or on a small knuckle of intestine having been strangulated at the neck of the sac and slipped back unperceived. That strangulation may produce a severe impression on the nerves, is evidenced by the pain reflected to the umbilicus, and by the general nervous symptoms. Pathological condition of the strangulated part.—^When the constriction is very tight, the circulation may be completely arrested, and gangrene ensue in a few hours. But as a rule the arrest is only partial, and the gangrene is preceded by congestion and inflammation. The intestine at first appears red and, perhaps, slightly swollen, but not otherwise altered; whilst clear serous fluid in greater or less quantity is poured out between it and the sac. It next assumes a mulberry colour, and as the congestion increases it becomes darker and darker, and finally black or ash-grey. At the same time it becomes more swollen, and loses its bright shining appearance, becoming sticky, then doughy in consistency, and pitting on pressure, whilst the fluid gets darker and turbid, and feculent in odour; finally the intestine sloughs, and its contents are extravasated into the sac. Sloughing or ulceration, frequently begins at the seat of stricture, and in the mucous coat, where, even at an early stage, an impression of the stricture is often seen. The omentum undergoes similar changes, passing gra- dually into a state of gangrene. The intestine above the strangulated portion for a variable distance is congested and distended with faecal matter, whilst that below is empty and contracted but otherwise natural. Simul- taneously with these changes a local peritonitis is set up about the neck of the sac, gluing the intestine to the peri- toneum, so that as a rule there is no extravasation into the peritoneal cavity. The sac becomes inflamed, a faecal abscess is formed, and, if the patient survives, opens on