61 SECONDARY SYPHILIS. the toes, ulceration may ensue (rhagades); but this condi- tion is not common, except as the result of uncleaniiness. Condylomata appear as low, soft, flattened, sessile eleva- tions of a whitish colour, with a smooth -surface, covered by a moist secretion, and often of considerable size. They are intensely contagious, and when occurring where two skin surfaces are in contact, as about the anus and labia, are usually symmetrically placed on either side. The affections of the mucoiis memhranes are similar to those of the skin, and are also usually symmetrical. At first, they consist of mere congestions, later of infiltra- tions with overgrowth and soddening of the epithelium {mucous tubercles), and subsequently of superficial ulcera- tions from the breaking down of the infiltrating inflam- matory exudation. Mucous tubercles are especially common about the palate and fauces, side of the tongue, lips, and cheek, and appear as slightly elevated whitish- looking patches, giving the part somewhat the appearance of having been rubbed over with nitrate of silver. The ulcers, which occur in similar situations, particularly about the tonsils and corners of the mouth, are usually of a crescentic shape, with sharp-cut edges, and are quite superficial. Similar mucous patches and ulcers may occur in the larynx or about the anus or in the rectum. During the later secondary stages, besides the super- ficial eruptions and ulcerations which may still be present, the deeper structures may become involved. Amongst these maybe mentioned the iris, periosteum, bones, joints, ear, and testicle. The lymphatic glands, not only those nearest to the primary sore, but overall the body, become affected, the posterior cervical more particularly so. This condition is of service in diagnosis; but as it gives rise to no symptom, it is generally overlooked by the patient. Syphilitic iritis is especially characterized by the presence of nodules of lymph on the iris, the effusion into the anterior chamber, the comparatively small amount of pain, and its amenability to mercurial treatment. But the irregular pupil, discoloured iris, circumcorneal zone of congestion, photophobia, and patches of pigment on the lens, are also present as in other forms of iritis. The periostitis seldom gives rise to the distinct nodes so common in the tertiary stage; otherwise the symptoms are similar. The joint - affections are like those in rheumatism, and exhibit nothing very characteristic. Epididymitis and orchitis are occasionally observed, and