739 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. in the blow-pipe flame, the residue being alkaline and effervescing with an acid. They are insoluble in acetic acid, but soluble in hydrochloric acid. The nucleus is generally composed of oxalate of lime, but may consist of uric acid or urate of ammonia. It is usually formed in the kidney. These calculi are most frequent in middle age, 3. The phosphatic calculi are of three kinds:—(a) the phosphate of lime or earthy phosphate; {h) the ammonio-magnesian or triple phosphate, and (c) the phos- phate of lime with the ammonio-magnesian phosphate, the mixed or fusible phosphate. Of these the last is the only common form. It is usually of large size and of white colour, smooth, soft, friable, earthy and lami- nated on section, and of irregular shape, taking that of the nucleus on which it is formed ; it fuses when heated in the blow-pipe flame; is insoluble in warm alkalies, but is soluble in acetic acid. The nucleus is composed of uric acid, oxalate of lime, or of some foreign body other than a calculus, as a piece of catheter, hair-pin, blood, or fibrin. It occurs most frequently in the later periods of life, and is then generally produced as follows:—A calculus or other foreign body irritates the mucous mem- brane of the bladder, and a secretion of mucus is, in consequence, poured out. This mucus decomposes the urea contained in the urine into carbonate of ammonia and water. The carbonate of ammonia unites with the acid phosphates, and an insoluble mixed phosphate of ammonia, magnesia and lime is thrown down and deposited on the foreign body. Hence these calculi are only met with in alkaline conditions of the urine. Although calculi may be chiefly composed of one con- stituent, they are more often composed of several, which may be arranged in alternate layers {alternating calculus). The formation of these layers is due to the varying state of the patient's health and of the condition of the mucous membrane of the bladder. DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. ExTROYEPvSiON or ECTOPIA VESICA is a malformation in which, in consequence of an arrest in the development of the anterior wall of the bladder and the corresponding part of the abdominal parietes, the posterior wall of the bladder is pushed forward by the pressure of the abdominal 3 B 2