368 INJURIES OF REGIONS. of an ordinary apoplectic clot, or may break down into pus [cerebral abscess). The symptoms of intracranial extravasation are those of compression of the brain, but vary according to the situa- tion of the blood and the rapidity with which it is extra- vasated. The diagnosis may be more or less obscured by the presence of concomitant injury to the brain. 1. "When the blood is between the bone and dura mater the patient, to take a typical case, is concussed at the time of the injury, recovers from the concussion, and is, perhaps, rational, then grows faint and sinks into a state of coma. The coma gradually deepens, and he usually dies in from a few hours to a few days after the injury with signs of profound compression of the brain. The paralysis at first is on the side opposite to the injury, but may become general as the blood extends over the surface of the brain. The pupil on the side of the injury may at first react to light, but becomes dilated and fixed as the blood extends to the base and presses on the third nerve. At times the eyeball may protrude owing to the pressure upon the cavernous sinus. Yery occasionally reflex convulsions, also on the side of the injury, may be set up by irritation of the nerves of the dura mater. If a fissured fracture is present, there may be some fulness externally from the escape of blood through the fissure. 2. When the blood is in the subdural space, signs of compression may be present; but there are no special symptoms by which it can be diagnosed, or, indeed, at times distinguished from blood between the bone and dura mater. Irritability of temper, headache, or convulsions coming on some time after the injury, are said, however, to indicate it. 3. When the blood is beneath the arachnoid in quantities suflicient to cause compression, it will probably be associated with severe laceration of the brain, and the patient will not, as a rule, regain consciousness. There are no special symptoms by which blood in this situation can be dia- gnosed (see Laceration of Brain), 4. When the blood is in the brain substance it produces symptoms which can- not be distinguished from those of apoplexy, except perhaps by the history of the injury, and not always then, as it may be impossible to determine whether the patient first fell and thus injured his brain causing e:ffusion of blood into its substance, or whether a vessel first gave way, and the fall was the consequence of the escape of blood into the brain.