204 mjfB-i:fis oi' si^EciAL tissues. way may cause, especially if the vein is also injured, gangrene of the limb. 2. The rupture may he complete, i.e., all the coats may be torn across. Here in a similar manner the artery may become occluded without any haemorrhage; or blood, often in enormous quantities, may be poured out into the tissues of the limb. In either case gangrene may ensue, espe- cially if the vein is also ruptured, and the injury occurs m the lower extremity. Sometimes the extravasated blood, particularly in the upper extremity, may become encysted, a sac being formed for it by the inflammation and condensation of the surrounding tissues. This condition is called a circumscribed traumatic aneurysm in contradistinction to diffused traumatic aneurysm,, the term sometimes applied to the injury when the blood is simply extravasated into the tissues, though in this latter case the name ruptured artery is more appropriate. The symptoms vary according to the nature of the injury. When the main artery becomes occluded there will be pain at the seat of rupture and cessation of the pulse below, while later gangrene will probably, though not invariably, ensue. Should the artery not be occluded, blood in large quantities escapes into the tissues, giving rise to a rapidly-increasing swelling, in which no pulsation can be detected, although a bruit may sometimes be heard ; the limb becomes cold, livid, and swollen, and the pulse, as a rule, can no longer be felt in the arteries below. When the extravasation is very large constitu- tional symptoms of haemorrhage will also be present, and signs of gangrene, if the ruptured artery is in the lower limb, will probably soon supervene, since not only is the main arterial supply cut oft', but the collateral flow, and venous return are also impeded by the pressure of the extravasated blood on the collateral arteries and veins. On the other hand, should the blood, as occasionally happens in the upper limb, become encysted, the swelling will slowly assume the characters of an ordinary aneurysm. Treatment.—(a). When the artery is occluded all that can be done is to endeavour to prevent gangrene occurring by maintaining the warmth of the limb till the collateral circulation has had time to become established. Should gangrene occur amputation must be performed as soon as a line of demarcation has formed, (b). When blood in