,203 mJtJllIES 0-^ AUTEHIES. down any adliesions that may have formed, and retaining it in place (which is often dijB&cult) by a suitably-applied pad and bandage, or in the case of the ankle or wrist by a plaster-of-Paris bandage, and subsequently by a leather support. EuPTURE OF A TENDON may occur as the result of external violence or during some sudden and involuntary muscular action, and is very common in the plantaris and tendo Achillis, and somewiEiat less so in the biceps (see Injuries of the Upper and Lower Extremity). The ten- don, except when the ends become widely separated, as generally happens in the case of rupture of the long tendon of the biceps, usually unites readily on the ends being approximated and kept at rest in that position. Evulsion or TEAHiNa out of a tendon with part of its muscle occasionally occurs as the result of catching the finger or thumb in a machine, on a hook, &c. Part or the whole of a digit is usually torn off, bringing away with it the flexor tendon, this being more firmly attached to the bone than the extensor. In consequence of the tendon-sheath being thus left open suppuration is liable to extend up it into the forearm. Eree drainage of the wound and antiseptic dressings are then imperative. INJURIES of arteries. Contusion or Bruising of an artery without laceration or other injury of its coats is of occasional occurrence, and is said to be followed by contraction and permanent diminution in the size of the vessel, and even by gangrene of the limb. Little that is definite, however, is known of this injury. EuPTURE or SUBCUTANEOUS LACERATION of an artery may occur as the result of any severe violence, but is perhaps most often due to the passage of a wheel over a limb, incautious attempts to reduce an old dislocation of the shoulder, and excessive violence in breaking down adhesions in stiff joints. 1. The rupture may he partial, i.e., the internal and middle coats only may be torn. In such a case the ex- ternal coat may subsequently yield to the pressure of the blood, thus laying the foundation of an aneurysm ; or the internal and middle coats may be folded inwards into the interior of the vessel, obliterating its calibre, and in this