341 DISEASES OF IS'ERVES. end, may cause great pain and muscular spasm. Treat- jnent,—The cause, if possible, should be removed, alcohol forbidden, and appropriate remedies given if there be gout, syphilis, or signs of lead-poisoning, &c. Locally hot fomentations or leeches, or belladonna and glycerine may be applied, and later, blistering fluid along the course of the nerve. Absolute rest of the part supplied by the nerve is imperative. In the traumatic form following amputation, stretching the nerve relieves for a time; but cutting out the bulbous end, division of the nerve, or resection of a portion, though said to do good, have, in my experience, failed to do so. Percussion of the nerve is well spoken of. Neuralgia is the term applied to pain, generally of a paroxysmal and violent character, in the course or dis- tribution of a sensory or mixed nerve. The causes of neuralgia are very various. Thus, it may be due to—1, pressure on a nerve by a tumour or aneurysm, or involve- ment of its end in a scar; 2, the presence of a foreign body in a nerve ; 3, inflammation of a nerve from injury, exposure to cold, &c.; 4, irritation or injury of another nerve or its endings, transferred or reflected—e.g., supra- orbital neuralgia due to carious teeth, pain in the back consequent on uterine disease; 5, some constitutional con- dition, as debility induced by excessive child-bearing, mental depression, hysteria, influenza, malaria, &c.; 6, disease of the central nervous system; 7, unknown causes. Symptoms.—The usual sign is pain in the dis- tribution or course of a nerve or of several nerves, generally violent, shooting, paroxysmal, and tingling. At times it may be attended with spasm of the muscles, hypersecretion of the glands and derangements of pig- mentation of the hair and skin. The pain, except when it depends upon neuritis, may often be relieved by pres- sure. It is most common in the fifth nerve, trigeminal neuralgia {tic douloureux)^ in the sciatic nerve {sciatica)^ and in the intercostal nerves {pleurodynia). At other times it is localized to an organ, as the testis or the breast, or to a joint. A severe form of trigeminal neuralgia known as ej^ileptiform neuralgia or incurable ticy may affect one or more of the branches of the fifth nerve. The paroxysms are of short duration, but of a most excruciating character; they recur at varying intervals, and are brought on by the slightest cause, as pressure over the bony canal through which the nerve emerges