DISEASES OE REGIONS. 806 with the testicle itself are very rare, and require no further description here. Encysted hydroceles of the epididymis, however, though still rare, are more often met with, and may be divided into (1) the subserous cysts, which are of no clinical importance, and (2) the sper- matic cysts. The latter are thin-walled, membraneous cysts lined with tesselated epithelium, and containing a watery, slightly opalescent or milky fluid, in which there is often an abundance of spermatozoa. The pre- sence of the spermatozoa may be due to the rupture into the cyst of one of the seminal ducts; or to the cyst being developed in connection with a seminal duct. The origin of these cysts is doubtful. They are generally believed, however, to be developed from some of the foetal remains (Wolffian body, Miillerian duct, &c.) so abundant in the situation of the epididymis. Signs.—They appear as tense, fluctuating, translucent, moveable, globular, smooth or lobulated swellings, with- out impulse on cough, and situated immediately above or behind the testicle. The cord is generally free. They are often combined with an ordinary hydrocele. The treatment is like that of ordinary hydrocele. Encysted hydrocele of the spermatic cord is a collection of serous fluid in an unobliterated portion of the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis. The fluid is similar to that of an ordinary hydrocele. The cover- ings of the cyst are those of the funicular process, viz., the skin, and the superficial, intercolumnar, cremasteric, and infundibuliform fasciae ; the vas with the arteries and veins are behind it. Signs.—An encysted hydrocele of the cord appears as a well-defined, tense, oval or globular, fluctuating, freely moveable swelling in the course of the spermatic cord. It is unconnected with the testicle below, and cannot be reduced into the abdomen above although it may be pushed back some distance up the inguinal canal. It is translucent, and gives no impulse on coughing. But when high up in the inguinal canal, it may be difficult to distinguish from a small irreducible hernia, as an impulse is communicated to it from the abdominal walls, and it may be impracticable to detect its translucency. A cautious puncture, with a grooved needle, may then be necessary to diagnose it. Treatment.—Painting with tincture of iodine may first be tried. This failing, the cyst should be punctured with