712 DISEASES OF REGIONS. leathery from exposure. It may be diagnosed from polypus by the presence of a central aperture, and from intussusception by the mucous membrane being con- tinuous with that of the sphincter. In intussusception a sulcus exists between the protruded part of the bowel and the sphincter. Treatment.—Should the bowel be protruded or strangu- lated, an attempt should be made to reduce it. If it has only been prolapsed a short time, this is easily accom- plished by gentle pressure, the parts having been well smeared with vaseline and the buttocks raised. When of longer standing, firm pressure must be exercised on it for ten minutes or so, or the finger may be introduced into the orifice and the bowel pressed back. If reduction fails and the part is much inflamed, an ice-bag may be applied, and another attempt subsequently made, when, if still unsuccessful, nothing remains but to allow the protruded part to slough off or to excise it. If the muscular coat protrudes, no operation should be done lest the peritoneum be wounded. Having reduced the bowel, the cause of the prolapse should, if possible, be removed, and to prevent a recurrence the nates may be strapped together, or a pad and T-bandage worn, and the motions passed at bed-time instead of in the morning, the patient lying on his side or back during defsecation. Astringent lotions or ointments of sulphate of iron, galls, or tannin should be applied, or the mucous membrane painted with nitrate of silver, whilst any pendulous folds of skin may be snipped off, so as to cause some amount of contraction of the anus. In the meanwhile, the motions should be rendered soft with gentle laxatives. Should these means, after being well persevered in, fail, a more serious operation may become necessary. Thus, portions of the mucous membrane may be removed by ligature; or the , galvano-cautery may be applied in two or three situations, so as to produce lines of burns in the long axis of the bowel, and thus cause the mucous membrane to adhere to the muscular coat by inflammation. HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES, are swellings inside or around the margin of the anus, the result of a dilated or vari- cose state of the blood-vessels. Causes,—The peculiar anatomical arrangement of the hsemorrhoidal veins; the absence of valves in them and in the veins through which they communicate with the portal vein, whereby they have to sustain the whole