COMPLICATIONS OF FEACTtTRE. 191 crutch with handles has lately been introduced. The paralysis, which chiefly affects the extensor muscles of the fore-arm, giving rise to dropped wrist, usually passes off when the crutch is no longer used. Should it not do so, electricity and massage may be employed. Paralysis or neuralgia sometimes occurs in consequence of the implication of a nerve in the callus. An operation is then at times necessary to liberate the nerve. Gangrene from tight bandaging is occasionally met with, and is of the moist variety. All bandages should of •course be at once removed, in the hope that the limb may recover. When the gangrene is thoroughly estab- lished, amputation above the seat of fracture, and of course well beyond the gangrene, must be performed. Short of gangrene, the partial cutting-off of the blood- supply may cause inflammation and degeneration of the muscles, followed by stubborn contracture {ischcemic rigidity), Extravasation of hlood into the tissues is not uncommon in simple fracture, owing to the tearing of some of the smaller blood-vessels by one of the rough fragments. The extravasated blood causes in some instances con- siderable swelling, and on making its way to the surface gives the part a bruised and black appearance, and fre- quently causes the cuticle over it to be raised into blebs. These blebs differ from those formed in gangrene in that they are fixed and firm, whilst the latter are movable over the moist and slippery skin beneath. No special treatment is required, the blebs should not be opened, and the blood will gradually be absorbed. In rare instances, however, suppuration ensues. Rujpture of the main artery or vein occasionally occurs, causing when the skin is unbroken a tense swelling at the seat of fracture, attended in the case of the artery by coldness of the limb, and cessation of the pulse in the arteries below. In compound fracture, rupture of the artery is, as a rule, easily diagnosed, in that pressure on' the artery above the fracture stops the bleeding. Treat- ment.—Should the swelling in simple fracture increase in spite of elevation of the limb, cold, and pressure on the main artery above, and gangrene threaten, three courses are open : 1, ligature of the artery above, 2, tying the artery at the seat of fracture, or amputation. In the lower limb amputation is probably, as a rule, the safest course; in the upper limb ligature of the vessel at the