ISCHIO-RECTAL ABSCESS. 717 If crushing is employed, the pile is drawn into the crusher, which is then screwed tightly home, the pile cut off, an,d the crusher removed after a minute or two. Excision has of late been extensively employed by some surgeons. It consists in dissecting away the piles, tying any arteries that bleed, and bringing down the mucous membrane and securing it by suture to the anal margin. Injections of carbolic acid.—The strength usually em- ployed is half a drachm of the acid, to a drachm each of glycerine and water, four or five minims being thrown into the centre of the pile by a hypodermic syringe. The process has to be repeated several times, and takes some weeks to effect a cure. Nitric acid is a useful and efficient application for the sessile vascular pile, and should be applied with a glass rod through a speculum and any excess of acid removed by a weak alkaline lotion. An iscHio-RECTAL ABSCESS (Fig. 275), is one that forms in the loose cellular tissue in the ischio-rectal fossa, and should be distinguished on the one hand from the small abscesses which may occur round the margin of the anus in the cutaneous folds (perianal); and on the other hand from the abscesses which may form between the mucous and muscular coats of the rectum or around the gut in the pelvic cellular tissue. The cause of ischio-rectal abscess is inflammation around the rectum (periproctitis). The inflammation may be due to perforation of the mucous membrane by a fish bone or other foreign body, followed by ulceration and the escape of f seces into the ischio-rectal fossa ; or it may be due to injury from without, as a kick or blow. In tubercular subj ects abscess is common from very slight causes, and is probably then the result of the breaking down of a local deposit of tubercle. The symptoms vary according as the abscess is acute or chronic. The acute begins with pain, which soon becomes throb- bing, and is followed by swelling and redness on one side of the anus, and later by fluctuation. In the chronic the symptoms may be so slight as to escape notice till the ab- scess bursts into the bowel and the pus escapes by the anus. Treatment.—An early incision should be made in order to prevent, if possible, the abscess breaking into the bowel and a fistula resulting. The incision should be free and of a T-shape, to secure a free vent for the discharge and promote the healing of the abscess from the bottom, lest the abscess-cavity, as is very frequently the case, from