576 DISEASES OF EEGIOJS'S. and meeting each other and the vomer in the middle line, and the premaxillary bone in front, form the hard and soft palate. This arrest of development may be complete, the fissure extending in the middle line through the uvula and the soft and hard palate, and hence through the alveolar process in the line of suture either on one or both sides oi the premaxillary bone (Fig, 206). It will in this case be generally combined with double or single hare-lip respectively. When the arrest is only partial, the cleft may extend through the uvula alone, or through the soft palate as well, or through the soft palate and part of the hard; whilst in other instances the alveolar process only on one or both sides of . the middle line may be notched, as occurs so often in hare-lip. The vomer, which is continuous in front with the premaxillary bone, either presents a free border in the middle of the cleft, or is attached to one or other margins of the cleft. The consequences of cleft palate vary with the age of the patient and extent of the cleft. In infancy, suction and deglutition are seri- ously interfered with; whilst later, the voice, articulation, taste, smell, and hearing, may all be impaired. Treatment—The infant if unable to take the breast in an erect or semi-recumbent posture, must be fed with the mother's milk by a spoon passed well to the back of the mouth, or by a feeding-bottle with a large teat to act as a plug to the cleft. The operation for the cure of the deformity should be undertaken before the child begins to speak, which is generally about a year later than usual; but not in mfancy, as bleeding is then badly borne, and the cleft of the bony palate diminishes in width during the first three years of life. Infants, moreover, are very liable to such ailments as catarrh of the pharynx and lungs, and coughing and sneezing tend to tear the parts asunder. The cleft in the hard and soft palate should be closed at the same time. Hare-lip, if present, should be operated on in infancy. Stapliylorraphy or closure of the soft palate. Chloro- form having been given by Junker's apparatus with the tube passed through the nose, and the mouth widely Fig. 206.—The lines of suture in the hard palate.