234 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. that caries may be associated with necrosis. In some cases of necrosis no suppuration occurs [quiet necrosis), but the bone becomes greatly swelled from the excessive forma- tion of new bone around the dead portion. It then closely resembles a new growth, from which it may be impossible in some instances to distinguish it without an exploratory incision (see Tumours of Bone). Treatment.—The dead bone should be removed as soon as it is loose. When it is superficial this can generally be done by the forceps, after slightly enlarging if necessar}^ the sinus through the soft tissues, or where the end of the sequestrum is exposed in a stump by simply drawing it out. But where the dead bone is invaginated and the cloacae leading to it are small a more serious operation is required (sequestrotoiny). The operation is much facili- tated by the use of an Esmarch's bandage. The sinus leading to the most convenient cloaca should be enlarged by a simple incision in the longitudinal axis of the limb, the sequestrum seized by forceps, and if practicable drawn out. If the cloaca is too small to admit of this it must be enlarged, or two cloacae, if present, may be laid into one by cutting away with a mallet and chisel, Hoffman's forceps, Hey's saw, gouge, &c., the intervening portion of the sheath of new bone. No more of the new bone, however, than is absolutely necessary should be cut away for fear of weakening the limb. For the same reason cloacae should be enlarged in the longitudinal axis of the bone. The extraction of the sequestrum may often be aided by the use of the elevator, or by cutting it in two pieces with the bone-scissors. The cavity should then be sprinkled with iodoform, packed with iodoform or sal alembroth gauze to prevent bleeding, and the wound dressed with gauze impregnated with the same or other antiseptic material. Whilst the cavity is healing, which when large it may take many weeks or even months to do, the patient's strength must be supported by tonics and a generous diet. At times the sequestrum is so intimately inter- locked between the old and the new bone that it may be impossible to remove it. In such cases, where the patient's powers are flagging from the long-continued suppuration, or signs of lardaceous or other visceral disease are manifesting themselves, amputation may be called for. Suppuration AKD ABSCESS in bone.—Diffuse suppura- tion in bone has already been described as a common