127 TREATMENT OE HAEMORRHAGE vessel be of a small or a medium size, it may not recur, and nature will permanently close the wounded vessel in tlie way to be presently described. It is only, however, when the vessel is small, that nature can be thus trusted. "When a large vessel is wounded, she is quite impotent to prevent an immediately fatal issue ; whilst if the vessel is of medium size, as the syncope passes off, and the heart again begins to act with vigour, the clots may be washed away and the bleeding recur till fainting once more ensues. In this way bleedings, alternating with tempo- rary arrests, exhaust the patient's strength, till he finally succumbs to fatal syncope. The method by which nature per- manently closes the vessel is as follows : — The clot between the artery and the sheath prevents the artery from dilating on the cessa- tion of the contraction of the muscular fibres of the middle coat; whilst the internal clot acts, so to speak, as a buffer, and thus prevents the force of the blood-stream being exerted to its full on the end of the vessel while healing is taking place. The injury inflicted on the coats of the vessel by its division sets up a traumatic inflammation. Leu- cqeytesjand- serum escape from the vasa vasorum of the divided vessel-walls and tissues about the cut end of the vessel, whilst there is pxoliferation of the endothelial and connective^-tissue^ceUsJr^ the margin of the torn coats of the vessel. The cells thus formed graduaTFy'pernieate both the internal and external clots so that the end of the artery in a few hours becomes sur- rounded by a small mass of coagulable lymph. The artery at the same time contracts on the internal clot, which gradually loses its red colour as it is invaded by the in- flammatory exudation. New vessels grow out from the vasa vasorum of the arterial wall, and from the granula- tion-tissue about the cut end of the vessel, and invade the inflammatory exudation, which has now replaced the in- ternal clot. Thus the internal clot, instead of as at first being merely adherent by its base to the end of the divided artery, is now intimately blended with the arterial walls, a wounded artery closed by clots.