580 DISEASES OF REGIONS. offensive breath, salivation, pain darting to the ear and increased on swallowing, and swelling of the glands behind the angle of the jaw. If the month can be sufficiently opened one or both of the tonsils are found to be red and swollen, and often in contact, blocking up the fauces. The neighbouring parts are congested and swollen, and, in the variety known as follicular tonsillitis, a secretion is seen oozing from the mouths of the inflamed follicles. The inflammation may now subside, or termi- nate in suppuration [quinsy),^ which may be known by the pain becoming of a throbbing character, and a sense of fluctuation or softening on palpation. Treatment.—At the onset a sharp purge should be given, whilst large doses of perchloride of iron, quinine, or salicylate of soda, with the local insufflations of bicarbonate of soda, may be tried as abortives. Where suppuration threatens, the throat should be steamed', and hot camomile mattresses or linseed poultices applied externally. As soon as the abscess has formed, an incision should be made with a bistoury, guarded by wrapping it round with sticking- plaster to within half an inch from the end, and directing the point towards the middle line to avoid injuring the tonsillar arteries and the internal carotid. Chronic enlargement oe the tonsils consists of an hypertrophy of the normal tissue of the tonsil, and is very common in strumous children, in whom it is frequently associated with adenoid growths in the vault of the pharynx. At times it appears due to oft-repeated attacks of acute tonsillitis. The symptoms to which it may give rise are : a nasal tone of voice ; a peculiar vacant expres- sion, acquired by the child constantly breathing with the mouth half open; regurgitation of fluids through the nose ; snoring during sleep ; distressing dreams, from the imperfect aeration of the blood; and recurring attacks of acute or sub-acute tonsillitis ; whilst deafness, from implication of the Eustachian tube and middle ear in the chronic inflammation, may sometimes be induced, and even an alteration in the shape of the chest, and possibly phthisis. The tonsils appear irregularly enlarged, often almost blocking up the fauces, but, unless inflamed, of a natural colour, or perhaps slightly paler than natural. Treatment.—In young children the affection may be cured by persistent painting with the tincture of perchloride of iron or tincture of iodine, combined with the internal use of cod-liver oil and syrup of phosphate of iron. In older