162 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. vein, death of the part from which the vein runs, &c. The thrombus becomes impregnated with the septic products forming in the wound, and with the pyogenic micrococci introduced from without. The septic and in- fective changes extend up the thrombus; portions of the thrombus where it projects into a larger vein are de- tached by the force of the blood-stream in the larger vein (see Fig. 37), and are carried away in the blood, and become lodged in the capillaries of the lungs or, possibly, escaping through them, in the capillaries of other parts of the body. These emboli, being of a septic and infective nature, instead of leading to the changes which follow ordinary embolism, give rise to septic and infective in- flammation, terminating in suppuration and abscess [primary embolic abscesses). 2. Masses of micrococci which have gained entrance, either directly through a wound, or indirectly through a mucous membrane, as in the case of infective periostitis, osteomyelitis, &c., are carried from the primary seat of disease by the lymphatics or blood-stream, and become lodged in the capillaries of the various tissues and organs. There blood-corpuscles aggre- gate around them, thus forming a thrombus, which softens and sets up infective inflammation and suppuration. 3. Portions of the softened thrombus in the lung-capil- laries become detached, and are carried by the blood-stream to other parts of the body, where they in turn form emboli, which also set up similar infective inflammation and suppuration (secondary embolic abscesses), 4. The diffuse purulent collections in the serous and synovial cavities are thought as a rule to depend upon the poisoned condition of the blood and the presence of micrococci, not upon emboli. The symptoms usually set in with a rigor, generally a severe one, during which the temperature rises to 103°, 104°, or even higher. Profuse sweating follows. The rigors are repeated from time to time. The temperature chart represents the same series of long up and down strokes characteristic of hectic fever, only di:ffering in that the morning temperature in pysemia seldom reaches normal. The pulse is quick; the tongue is red or glazed, and later, dry and brown; wasting rapidly sets in; the skin often assumes an earthy or jaundiced hue; the face is anxious, perhaps flushed, or pale ; extravasations from the capillaries of the skin occur producing petechise; and other eruptions, though less common, as patches of erythema, may appear from time to time, with aphthae or