VISTULA m A-NO. 719 to the skin, or in both directions; or of ulceration or perforation of the mucous membrane and the extension of the ulcerative track downwards towards the skin, which it may or may not penetrate. It is often seen in phthisical subjects, and occurs as a complication of can- cerous and other strictures of the rectum. The two chief reasons why the fistula does not close are the constant movements of the sphincter and the escape of f secal matter into it. Symptoms,—Uneasiness, pain or tenderness of the parts, especially on defsecation and movement; more or less constant discharge of pus or purulent fluid from the external opening; escape of faeces where the fistula is complete, or a discharge of pus from the bowel if the fistula is of the blind internal variety; mental worry, anxiety and depression; at times exacerbation of the inflammation with pain and increased discharge; and probably the history of a previous abscess having formed in the ischio-rectal fossa. Diagnosis.—In the complete variety (Fig. 276) the dia- gnosis is readily made by passing a probe up the fistula into the bowel, and by feeling the internal opening (which has sometimes the form of a small depression in the centre of a slight papilla-like eminence) with the finger in the rectum. In the hlincl internal (Fig. 277) a sof^ spot in the centre of an indurated portion of the tissues by the side of the anus will be felt, and probably an indurated track will be detected leading from this towards the bowel. The internal opening, which has the characters given above, will be discovered just within the anus on passing the finger into the rectum. Into this opening a bent probe may be passed, and its end made to project under the soft spot on the skin- surface. In the blind external (Fig. 278) the probe cannot be made to enter the bowel on being passed up the fistula, and no internal opening can be felt in the rectum by the finger. In all cases the rectum should be carefully ex- amined to exclude stricture or cancerous disease. From urinary fistulse tracking down towards the anus a fistula in ano is readily distinguished by the characters given above, and by the absence of urethral and bladder trouble, and by no urine escaping through the fistula. Treatment.—Although in exceptional instances fistulae have closed spontaneously, an operation, as a rule, is required. Before operating for fistula the chest ought