369 CONTUSION OE. BRTTISING OF THE BRAIN. Treatment.—Wheii it is clear that the hsemorrhage is from the middle meningeal artery, and it appears pro- bable that no other serious injury of the brain has been received, the trephine should be applied for the purpose of removing the clot and securing the bleeding vessel. The situation of the artery is about an inch and a half behind the external angular process of the orbit, and over this spot a crown of bone should be removed. The dark clot which now protrudes at the opening should be turned out by some form of scoop, and if the bleeding artery is then seen, an attempt should be made to tie or twist it, or to compress it by plugging the groove in the bone in which it lies with a piece of aseptic wax or wood. If the bleeding point cannot be reached, more bone may be cut away. If, however, on the removal of the clot, the brain does not expand, and the haemorrhage is so profuse that the wounded artery cannot be seen, the external or common carotid artery may be compressed or tied, and ice applied to the side of the head. "When no blood is found between the bone and dura mater, but the dura mater itself is bluish in colour, does not pulsate with the brain, and bulges into the trephine hole, indicating the presence of blood beneath it, an incision should be made through it and the blood let out. Great care must sub- sequently be taken to keep the wound aseptic. For haemorrhage on the surface or in the substance of the brain surgical interference is not permissible; all that can be done is to treat the case as one of ordinary apoplexy from cerebral haemorrhage, i.e., by free purging, cold to the head, hot bottles to the feet, &c. Contusion or bruising of the brain may be due to any severe violence, and may occur with or without injury of the scalp or cranial bones. It is often accom- panied by laceration of the brain substance and of the pia mater and arachnoid. The bruising may be general or circumscribed. In the latter case it may occur imme- diately beneath that part of the cranium to which the violence was applied, or on the opposite part of the brain, the brain being as it were dashed by the violence of the blow against the cranial wall furthest from the part of the skull to which the force was applied. Like bruises of other soft tissues it is attended by extravasation of blood from rupture of the smaller vessels. It may terminate in absorption of the blood and healing of the bruised parts, or in general inflammation of the brain w. B b