IJLCERS. 35 obliteration of the blood-vessels in the cicatrix and causing contraction and often distortion of the sur- rounding parts. Cicatrices differ from normal skin in that they are devoid of sweat-ducts, hair-foliicles, seba- ceous glands, and lymphatics, and being also but poorly supplied with nerves and vessels, are very apt to break down on slight provocation leading to a re-opening of the ulcer. Moreover, owing to their unstable nature they are liable to undergo certain changes and become the seat of eczema, hypertrophy, keloid, epithelioma and warty excrescences, and to be attended with itching, pain, and intense neuralgia. ULCERS. An ulcer is the term applied to an open sore produced by a loss of substance of the free surface of the skin or mucous membrane in the process of ulceration, or of ulceration and gangrene combined. The term, moreover, is sometimes extended to any open granulating wound the result of an injury or operation. Varieties of Ulcers.—The various names given to ulcers are derived either from their local conditions and sur- roundings or from their specific cause. The characters of the specific ulcers, however, often become obscured by accidental local conditions, and these latter again are constantly changing from day to day, so that an ulcer which at one time would be called callous may at another be in a sloughing state. The following are examples of the chief types of ulcers, but in practice many minor shades of di:fference in the local appearances are met with, so that it may be difficult or impossible to assign a given ulcer to a particular type. A. Ulcers ivhose characters depend upon their local condition. The simple^ healthy, or healing idcer.—The edges are- smooth and shelving, and extend in the form of a bluish- white film over the marginal granulations. The base is level, or nearly so, and covered with healthy granulations. The discharge is inodorous pus, ' laudable' pus as it was formerly called, or if the ulcer is dressed antiseptically, and all irritation avoided, merely healthy serum. The D 2