140 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. time, although at first it may apparently be ineffectual. The application of heat by means of hot bottles and warm blankets must, in the meantime, on no account be neglected. Hot flannels placed over the cardiac region may be successful in rousing the flagging heart; and in the case of a child, a hot bath may be given. Should the jugular veins be distended, indicating an over-full and partially-paralysed condition of the right side of the heart, the external jugular vein may be opened. On the other hand, if there has been excessive haemorrhage, infusion of saline solution should be performed, the extremities in the meantime being raised and bandaged so as to impel as much blood as possible to the nerve- centres and imperfectly-distended heart. Electricity in some cases has been useful. Traumatic eeyer.—After every injury, when severe, the temperature, even when there is no wound, as in some cases of simple fracture, may rise one or two degrees, but falls to normal about the third day, whilst the tongue may become slightly furred, the bowels confined, the appetite lost, and the pulse increased in frequency. These symp- toms, however, pass off with the fall of temperature, and, for the rest of the ■ period while the wound or inj ury is healing, the patient's general functions are performed naturally. This condition appears to depend in part upon an impression made through the peripheral nerves on the heat-regulating centre in the medulla, and in part upon the absorption of free fibrin ferment which escapes with the leucocytes and serum in the process of the simple traumatic inflammation resulting from the injury. This simple form of traumatic fever must be carefully dis- tinguished from the septic, which depends on the absorp- tion of the products of fermentation or putrefaction from a septic and imperfectly drained wound. If the wound is allowed to become septic, the symptoms of simple trau- matic fever pass into those of the septic form, or if the dose of poison absorbed has been large, into those of saprsemia. Simple traumatic fever subsides of itself, and requires no special treatment beyond relieving the bowels by a gentle purgative and keej)ing the patient on slop diet. Septic traumatic fever will be described under septic processes in wounds. Traumatic delirium is the term apjDlied to the delirious state which sometimes supervenes after injuries and surgical operations, The delirium may depend upon