82 GEISTERAL PATHOLOGY OF STJRGICAL DISEASES. enclosing each, cell in a separate space or alveolus. 5. The melanotic sarcoma^ which contains pigment both in the cells and intercellular substance. Its favourite seat is in the skin and the choroid coat of the eye, i.e., in situations where pigment normally exists. It becomes rapidly disseminated through the body, the secondary growths being generally also pigmented. It is the most malignant of the sarcomata, and was formerly known as melanotic cancer. The cells are sometimes spindle-shaped instead of round. It differs from the pigmented wart, in that the latter is firm, often pedunculated or lobulated, and of slow growth. The signs of round-celled sarcomata vary so much according to the tissue implicated, that only the briefest outline of their general course can be here given. They will more especially be referred to under bone, testicle, and breast. Here it may suffice to say that they exhibit all the signs of malignancy. Thus they grow rapidly, invade the surrounding tissues, the veins over them become enlarged, and the skin as they approach it becomes inflamed and finally gives way, and an ulcerating chasm is left or a fungus protrudes. The health and strength fail, cachexia sets in, evidence of dissemination of the disease in other tissues or in internal organs may be manifested, and death soon ensues. Diagnosis.—It is often very difficult to diagnose a sarcoma, especially of bone, from inflammatory affections. The history of the case, the unequal consistency of the tumour, which may be hard in places, soft in others, the irregularity of its shape, the absence of pus on puncture with a grooved needle, and the progressive loss of weight and strength point to its sarcomatous nature; but an incision into it will sometimes be necessary to clear up the doubt. The rapid growth and dark colour of a melanotic sarcoma are distinctive. Treatment.—The only effectual treatment is removal. When the tumour is situated in one of the extremities amputation well above the disease should be practised; when on the trunk it should, where practicable, be dis- sected out, cutting as wide of the disease as possible. (6,) The spindle-celled (Fig. 13) are the most com- mon of the sarcomata, and are composed of spindle-shaped cells, varying in size, and containing one or more nuclei. The cells, in some instances, are arranged concentrically around the blood-vessels, or in bands; or again, in other