DISEASES OE REGIOl^S. form below the stricture, and lisemorrlioids are a frequent concomitant. Symptoms and diagnosis.—Pain and difficulty in passing a motion, constipation and later, constipation alter- nating with diarrhoea. The motions become small, pipe- or ribbon-like, and streaked with discharge. There is a frequent desire to defsecate, but little passes except wind and discharge, and the bowels feel as if they had not been emptied. In tight strictures or in strictures with ulcera- tion fistulse may sometimes form about the anus, and the patient gets worn out and after many years perhaps of suffering may die of an attack of peritonitis or obstruc- tion. The stricture is readily detected on passing the finger, but is often so tight that only the tip can be got into it. When this is the case on no account should the finger be passed through it, as the slight force of passing the finger may rupture the attenuated walls and perito- nitis and death may follow. Treatment.—As a rule, gradual dilatation by means of bougies, of which the soft flexible ones of Mr. Goodsall are perhaps the best, should be first attempted, and will generally be successful; but the stricture must be kept dilated by the subsequent occasional passage of a bougie. In exceptional cases, where the strictiire is very resistant, a bougie may be tied in. Where the parts are much riddled by fistulse a division of the stricture may be necessary. This may be done by what is called internal or external linear proctotomy. In the former operation the knife, guarded by the finger, is introduced through the stricture, which is then divided in a posterior direc- tion ; in the latter, the stricture together with the external sphincter and other intervening soft parts are completely divided down to the coccyx. 2. Malignant or cancehotjs steicture.—Pathology > —Cancer, in all its forms may occur in the rectum, but the most common is a variety of carcinoma known as the columnar or adenoid. It occurs either as a fun- gating, more or less distinct tumour projecting into the lumen of the bowel, or as a laminar, nodular, or ring- like infiltration of its coats. In either case, it is at first covered by apparently unaltered mucous membrane, which, however, is sooner or later destroyed by ulcera- tion, leaving an ulcer with an uneven, proliferating, or excavated surface, everted edges and an indurated base. As the disease extends it involves the muscular coat, and