160 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. the presence of any clot to plug the small vessels, and here in like manner to cause secondary suppuration. There appears to be, therefore, two chief elements at work, the pyogenic cocci giving rise to the disseminated suppura- tions, and the septic ptomaines developed in the wound or generated by the cocci themselves, poisoning the whole system. Pyaemia is especially common after wounds in- volving bone, owing to the liability of the large patulous veins of bone to become filled with purulent thrombi, portions of which are readily carried away by the blood- stream. Hence the frequency of pyaemia after injuries of the cranium involving the diploe, compound fractures, amputations, and excisions, when antiseptics and drain- age are neglected. Again, the poison may be developed in decomposing portions of the placenta left after child- birth, and may then enter the blood by infecting the thrombi in the uterine veins. Or it may be formed in connection with operations on the genito-urinary tract, on account of the difficulty of keej)ing such wounds aseptic. Pysemia, moreover, is especially frequent after infective osteomyelitis and infective periostitis, even before the sa^Dpurating cavity is opened and exposed to the outer air. It may also occur in connection with erysipelatous wounds, diffuse cellulitis, and hospital gangrene, and sometimes after gonorrhoea, ulceration of the intestines in typhoid fever and dysentery, and ulcerative endocar- ditis. Very occasionally pyaemia follows the most trivial operation or injury, as the subcutaneous division of a tendon or a portion of fascia. Here it is probably the result of the introduction of micro-organisms at the time of the operation. At times no local source of infection can be discovered; the disease is then spoken of as idio- pathic pyaemia, and it is believed that the pyogenic micro- organism gains admission, as in infective osteomyelitis, periostitis, and ulcerative endocarditis, through a mucous surface. Pathology.—The post-mortem appearances are similar to those in septicaemia, plus purulent collections in one or more situations, or disseminated through the body as multiple small abscesses. Thus, there is the same rapid tendency to putrefaction, disintegration of red blood-corpuscles, stain- ing of the vessels and tissues, minute extravasations {pete- chice) beneath the serous membranes and in the skin, con- gestion of the viscera, enlargement of the spleen, and in many cases the presence of micro-organisms in the blood