EXAMmATION OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. 593 j inch, or roughly, the size "of the last joint of the thumb) is taken, and round the middle of this is tied a doubled piece of stout thread, a long loop being thus left on one side, and two ends on the other, one of which is cut off short. : The sound is then threaded with a separate length of thread, and passed closed through the nostril, and when the end has reached the pharynx, the spring is projected, ! coils round under the soft palate, and appears with the thread in the mouth. The thread is then seized, pulled forwards and the sound withdrawn, thus leaving one ! end of the thread through the mouth and the other ! through the nostril. The mouth end is now tied to the Fig. 215. —Bellocq's sound. loop of thread attached to the pledget; and by making traction on the thread hanging from the nose the pledget, guided by the finger in the mouth, is drawn behind the soft palate into the posterior nares. The loop of thread is finally cut and tied over a pledget of cotton-wool or lint, which is forced into the nostril to form an anterior plug. Meantime the other end of the thread attached to the plug has been retained hanging out of the mouth and is now fastened loosely to the cheek, or it may be allowed to fall back into the pharynx. The plugs should be kept in for about two days. They are readily removed by cutting the thread over the anterior plug, and then withdrawing the posterior one through the mouth by means of the thread that is fastened to the cheek or is hanging loose in the pharynx. A substitute for Bellocq's sound, if this is not at hand, may be found in a soft india-rubber or gum- elastic catheter, which, with a hole drilled through its end, can be used in a similar way. Examination of the nasal cavities.—For the diag- nosis of internal diseases the nasal cavities should be illuminated by the laryngoscopic mirror (Fig. 233) or the electric lamp, the alse being separated by some form of nasal speculum, of which Duplay's and Frankel's are the w. Q Q