ACttTE SYNOVITIS. 2S1 turbid from admixture with inflammatory products. Eesolution may now occur, or the inflammation may be- come chronic, or it may spread to the cartilages, bones, &c., and terminate in suppui'ation and the probable disorganization of the joint (see Acute Arthritis). Signs.—The joint is hot, excessively painful, especially on movement and pressure, and if the inflammation is very intense, the skin may be slightly reddened, and the tissues around oedematous. The joint is usually held flexed, that is, with the capsule and ligaments relaxed,— the position of greatest ease. Where the joint is super- ficial the swelling is well marked, the outline of the synovial membrane being distinctly mapped out. Thus in the hnee^ the joint perhaps most commonly affected, the synovial membrane can be seen extending upwards under the crureus and vasti, and bulging on either side of the ligamentum patellae. The patella itself is raised from the condyles of the femur, and on making pressure on it the fluid is displaced, and the patella can be felt to strike against the condyles {riding of the patella). In the elboiu, the synovial membrane can be seen extending under the triceps and on either side of the olecranon; in the ankle, bulging beneath the extensor tendons and behind the malleoli. Feverish symptoms varying in intensity ac- cording to the severity of the inflammation are generally present. The inflammation may now gradually subside or assume the chronic form. Should, however, suppura- tion occur, and the other tissues of the joint become involved, the pain, swelling, and oedema increase, and the skin becomes of a dusky red, whilst a chill or distinct rigor ushers in a more severe type of inflammatory fever. Treatment.—The joint should be placed at absolute rest on a splint, and the patient, in the case of the hip, knee, or ankle, confined to bed. In applying the splint, care should be taken that the limb is in the position best suited for future use should ankylosis ensue; thus the knee should be straight, and the elbow bent at a right angle. Where the joint has already been drawn into a faulty position, this must be rectified, the patient being placed under an ansesthetic, as the manipulation is attended with intense pain. Cold, by means of evaporating lotions or Leiter's tubes, may in slighter cases be applied to the joint. When, however, the inflammation is very acute, half-a-dozen leeches followed by hot applications should