89 TUMOTJRS—CAECIIS'OMATA. epithelium from which they spring. Thus, they are more or less squamous when derived from the skin, squamous or columnar when derived from a mucous membrane, spheroidal when derived from a gland. The alveoli in which the cells are contained are by many regarded as the lymphatic spaces natural to the affected tissue dilated by the invading epithelium. They communicate with one another, forming a kind of cavernous tissue throughout the growth. The stroma surraunding the alveolar spaces at first consists of the connective or other tissue of the invaded parts, infiltrated more or less with small round cells. This small-cell-infiltration is ascribed to the irrita- tion of the epithelial invasion, and from it is believed to be later derived the fibrous tissue constituting the dense stroma of some forms of carcinoma. The blood-vessels, which run in the stroma, are nume- rous in the more rapidly-growing tumours, and especially in the circumferential parts, but are much fewer in number in the more chronic forms, and in the central parts of the latter may be obliterated by the growth of the fibrous tissue. Hence the frequency with which fatty degeneration of the cells, and breaking down {ulceration) of older parts of the tumour occur. In the softer or rapidly-growing forms, in which the stroma is scanty and the support that the vessels receive from it consequently but slight, haemorrhages are frequent. Carcinomata have no capsule, grow by endogenous cell-division and continued invasion of the surrounding tissues, and, sooner or later, break down and ulcerate. They implicate the nearest lymphatic glands, and finally become disseminated. At first the general health is usually but little affected; but later, partly owing to the local ulceration and partly owing to the dissemination of the growth, a condition known as cancerous cachexia sets in, the skin becoming sallow and of a peculiar earthy colour, the face careworn and anxious, and the body emaciated. The strength fails, and the patient at length dies of exhaustion induced by the general interference with nutrition, local ulceration, haemorrhages, pain and mental anxiety. Yaeieties of Carcinoma.—The carcinomata are divided into three great classes :—(1) The spheroidal-celled; {2) the sg'mmoits-ceTM(epitheliomata); and(3)^Ae columnar- celled or the adenoid or glandular carcinomata. The spheroidal-celled are further divided into (a) the hard spheroidal-celled, {h) the soft spheroidal-celled, and (c) the