TUBERCLE AND TUBERCULOSIS, 51 with the tissues by direct inoculation. In the neigh- bourhood of the bacilli the endothelial cells proliferate, and form a group of large cells resembling those of endothelium. One or- more of these cells now increase in size whilst the contained nuclei continue to divide, thus forming the giant-cells. In the meanwhile a certain amount of inflammation takes place around, and leu- cocytes invade the tubercle from without, and pass inwards towards the centre amongst the endothelial cells. Secondary changes.—(1.) Tubercle, probably on account of the absence of blood-vessels and the pressure of the invading leucocytes, and possibly also on account of the noxious influence of the bacilli, is very liable to undergo caseous degeneration. This change begins at the centre of the tubercle in the giant-cells, and spreads out- wards. (2.) In chronic tuberculosis, instead of caseation occurring, a capsule of fibrous tissue may be formed around the nodule, and the cicatrisation extending in- wards until the giant-cell is involved, the whole tubercle may be converted into a mass of fibrous tissue. The tubercle bacillus is not found under such conditions. (3.) After caseation has occurred the tubercle may be- come encysted, or may undergo calcification, in both of which states it may remain harmless; or (4) it may become infected with pyogenic micrococci, which, acting as irritants, set up inflammation and suppuration in the tissues around, leading to the formation of an abscess, and subsequently on its bursting to an ulcer. Cause.—The immediate exciting cause of tubercle would appear to be the presence of the tubercle bacillus. The bacillus is believed in man to gain admission (1) by the digestive tracts as in the saliva of a phthisical mother or nurse, in milk taken from cows with tuberculous udders, or in imperfectly cooked tuberculous meat; (2) by the respiratory tract, as by close and long contact with the breath of phthisical patients, inhalation of the dust of dried phthisical sputa, &c.; and (3) by the skin. It is still doubtful if man is often inoculated through the skin; at any rate, there then seems little or no ten- dency for tubercle to spread beyond the point of inoculation. Predisposing causes.—For the bacillus to take effect a lowering of the vitality or resisting power of the tissues appears to be necessary. Such a condition of the tissues may be present: — (1) In children born of phthisical parents. Hence, heredity in this sense may be said to be E 2