355 INJURIES OF THE CRANIAL BONES. for a few days, placed on low diet, a smart purge given, and a careful watch made for signs of suppuration. Should such occur, the adhering margins of the wound should be separated to permit the free escape of the pus, and the wound be allowed to heal by granulations. If pus forms at some distance from the wound, an incision must be made at that spot through the scalp, of course avoiding the track of any large vessel. Injuries of the Cranial Bones. Contusions of the cranial bones are always serious, especially when attended with a wound of the scalp, inas- much as they are liable to be followed by—1. Inflamma- tion of the pericranium, which may terminate in suppura- tion between it and the bone and necrosis of the external table or even of the whole thickness of the skull; 2. Suppuration in the diploe, with implication of the large diploic veins, and probably septicaemia or pyaemia; 3. Suppuration between the bone and dura mater, and sub- sequent general meningitis; 4. Chronic inflammatory thickening of the cranial bones or dura mater, giving rise to constant headache, impairment of one of the special senses, epilepsy, or even insanity; and 5. Cerebral abscess. Signs.—Contusions of the skull are attended by no primary symptoms, but should any of the above-men- tioned conditions supervene there will be the usual signs of inflammation localized to the injured spot, with more or less constitutional disturbance. 1. In simple peri- cranial inflammation the symptoms will usually subside in a few days. 2. Should pus form between the peri- cranium and the bone, there may be chills, and perhaps rigors, with local signs of suppuration; whilst the bone, should necrosis occur, will become dry and yellowish- brown or greenish-white in colour. 3. Should suppura- tion ensue in the diploe, there will be rigors, followed by high temperature, and probably, later, signs of pysemia or septicaemia. 4. Pus between the bone and dura mater will be indicated by headache, vomiting, rigors, mono- plegia or hemiplegia, delirium, or stupor, followed by convulsions or coma (see intracranial suppuration); whilst locally a circumscribed swelling may form over the injured spot {Potfs puffy tumour), or if there be a wound it will become dry and the bone discoloured. a A 2