209 TRAUMATIC ANEUBYSM. instance in wounds of the subclavian above tbe davicle. Here all that can probably be done is to trust to pressure firmly applied to the wound. Whilst cutting down upon a bleeding artery haemor- rhage should be restrained by the use of an Esmarch's bandage, or by the tourniquet or the fingers applied to the main artery above the wound; and in the case of a w'ound of the external iliac or gluteal by Davy's lever passed up the rectum and made to compress the common iliac. Where it is impracticable to control the bleeding in any of these ways the wound, if necessary, should be sufiiciently enlarged to admit one or two fingers, and the bleeding vessel having been recognized by the escape of warm blood should then be compressed, the wound further enlarged, and the artery secured with the aid of an assistant before the finger is removed from the bleeding spot. Should gangrene ensue after ligature, and spread rapidly, amputation must be performed at the seat of ligature ; but if it involves only one or two fingers or toes, or spreads slowly, a line of demarcation should be waited for before amputating. Traumatic aneurysm.—Two forms are described, the diffuse and the circumscribed. The diffuse is practically a ruptured or wounded artery with extravasation of blood into the tissues. There is no attempt at the formation of a sac, and the term aneurysm applied to it is misleading. (See Euptured Artery, p. 201.) The circumscribed may be formed in several ways, as already stated under Eupture and Wounds of Arteries. Thus, 1. An artery may be wounded, pressure be applied, the external wound heal, and blood slowly escape into the tissues. 2. An artery may be wounded, heal, and the cicatrix subsequently yield. 3. An artery may without external wound be punctured by a fragment of fractured bone, or torn in reducing a dislocation, and blood in either case be extravasated into the tissues. 4. An artery may be wounded but not penetrated, and the uninjured coat or coats may yield to the pressure of the blood. In all of these cases the soft tissues around become condensed and form the sac of the aneurysm. Where the aneurysm is produced by the yielding of any portion of the arterial coat, this at first will form the sac, but sooner or later it will give way, and the sac will then be formed by the condensation of the soft tissues around, as when the P