DISEASES OF THE EYE. 523 Treatment.—The treatment consists in finding the cause, if ! possible, and attempting to remove it. When this is im- possible, large doses of bromide of potassium, alone or com- bined with hydrobromic acid, will be found most efficacious. I Next, quinine in large doses, but this must be carefully I watched • and lastly, the use of the continuous current of electricity. TmNiTUS ATJBiUM arises under most varied conditions. The sounds complained of are very numerous, but may be divided into ringing, rushing, bubbling, and pulsating sounds. Any abnormal condition of the auditory ap- paratus will produce it, such as—1, accumulations of wax pressing on the drum-membrane; 2, increased intra-laby- j rinthine tension, froin undue pressure on the fenestrse (either by fluid in the tympanum, or retraction of the membrana tympani through obstruction of the Eustachian tube); or lastly, hypersemia of, or pathological change in, the labyrinth. But in addition to these local causes tinni- tus may be produced by causes acting at a distance, such as anaemia, chlorosis, pulsating exophthalmos, aneurysm of the vertebral artery, cerebral disease, large doses of quinine, or salicin. Treatment.—In every case it is im- portant, if possible, to ascertain whether the cause is to be found in some derangement of the auditory apparatus, or elsewhere. If the cause be local, it is generally pos- sible to relieve or cure the tinnitus by curing the local affection. If the tinnitus depends on general anaemia, some form of iron, with generous diet and the addition of stimulants may be sufficient to effect a cure. If there be hypersesthesia of the nervous system, the bromides are indicated, with the addition of hydrobromic acid, if the singing is of a pulsating character. Tinnitus frequently occurs in patients of a rheumatic diathesis, and in snch, anti-rheumatic treatment is, of course, indicated. Other remedies failing, the Surgeon, empirically, may try chloride of ammonium, nitrite of soda, and lastly, the continuous current of electricity. DISEASES OF THE EYE. By Walter H. Jessop, M.B., F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Central London Ophthalmic Hospital. Physical examination oe the eye.—Por the com- plete and thorough examination of the eye it is necessary