NECROSIS OF THE JAWS. 585 of necrosis for compact rather than for cancellous bone. Though the necrosis may affect the whole of the jaw, it is more often limited to the alveolar process or to the anterior wall. The teeth may loosen and fallout; but at times they retain their connection with the gums and remain in situ after the removal of the sequestrum. The causes of necrosis of the jaw as of necrosis else- where, generally depend upon inflammation of the periosteum or bone, which in the case of the jaw ap- pears especially to be induced by the fumes of phos- phorus, the abuse of mercury, carious teeth in strumous subjects, syphilis, the exanthemata, cancrum oris, and lastly, injury, as in extracting 'a tooth. Phospliorus- necrosis is generally believed only to affect the subjects of carious teeth, but some maintain that it is a local manifestation of a general phosphorus-poisoning. It is much less common since the amorphous form of phos- phorus has been used for making matches. The pro- duction of new bone in necrosis of the lower jaw is generally excessive; and there are several specimens in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum showing almost complete reproduction of the whole jaw. In the upper jaw new bone is not formed after complete removal. In phosphorus-necrosis a characteristic pumice-like deposit of new bone is formed. Symptoms.—Necrosis generally begins with severe pain and deep-seated swelling, which may at first be mistaken for toothache or alveolar abscess, followed by suppuration and bursting of the abscess, either in the mouth or externally on the face, and the formation of sinuses. The breath, as a rule, is horribly foetid, and there is sharp constitutional disturbance which, in phosphorus-necrosis, is sometimes excessive, and may end in septicaemia or pyaemia. On probing the sinus, dead bone is detected. This sign will usually dis- tinguish necrosis from the creeping form of epithelioma, for which it is apt to be mistaken. Treatment,—The bone as soon as loose should be removed, if possible, through the mouth. In the meantime the parts should be kept aseptic by syringing with Condy's fluid or car- bolic lotion, or by insufflation of iodoform, incisions being made through the periosteum to ensure a free drain, or Cargill's respirator may be worn to neutralize the foetor. Internally, tonics and stimulants and nourishing diet should be given, and iodide of potassium if there is a syphilitic taint.