730 DISEASES OF REGIONS. exercise, and pus and mucus in varying quantities, if pyelitis has been set up, may also, as a rule, be detected. The urine, notwithstanding the presence of the pus, is generally acid, and the bladder, prostate, and urethra are found free from disease. Should hydronephrosis or pyonephrosis have been produced, a tumour will then be discovered in the abdomen, and there may no longer be any pus or blood in the urine. In the latter instance there may be in addition constitutional signs of suppura- tion (see hydro- and pyonephrosis). Should the stone escape from the pelvis and enter the ureter, its passage down that tube will be attended with intense pain (renal colic). The pain occurs suddenly and darts towards the groin, testicle, and thigh, and is accompanied by nausea or vomiting, syncope, profuse perspiration, and blood and urates in the urine. After lasting a few hours to several days the symptoms suddenly cease, owing to the calculus dropping from the lower end of the ureter into the bladder, or if too large to pass beyond the infundibulum, becoming displaced into the pelvis of the kidney. Hence successive attacks of renal colic may be due either to the same stone blocking up from time to time the entrance of the ureter or to the passage of different stones. Treatment.—For an account of the preventive treat- ment a work on medicine must be consulted. When a stone has formed and medical treatment has failed to give relief after long-continued trial, and the patient's life is rendered unbearable from constant pain or compulsory recumbency, an operation must be undertaken for his relief. This may consist in nephrolithotomy, nephro- tomy, or nephrectomy. Where the kidney is but little if at all damaged the first is clearly indicated; but if, on exploring the kidney, the stone cannot be felt even on puncture with a needle, or incision and exploration with the finger, it becomes a question whether nephrectomy should be done, or the kidney left in situ and the wound merely closed. If hydronephrosis or pyonephrosis has supervened nephrotomy is required, or possibly nephrec- tomy. Eor renal colic hot baths, hot fomentations, and opium, or morphia injections must be given to assuage the pain. The tuberculous kidney need only briefly be re- ferred to here, as it is more fully described in works on Medicine. This affection may occur in the course of general tuberculosis, or involve the kidney secondarily