119 BURN'S XNB SCALDS. applying an evaporating or a spirit lotion, nothing more as a rule is required, as the extravasated blood presses upon the injured vessels, and so prevents further hsemor- rhage. Should a hBematoma form, it should on ' no account be opened, as the blood will usually become absorbed; whilst, if air be admitted, suppuration will probably ensue. Aspiration, however, when the hsema- toma is very large, may occasionally be done with ad- vantage. BURNS AND SCALDS. Burns and scalds vary in their effect according to their depth, extent, situation, and the age of the patient. An extensive though superficial burn on the trunk, head, or face, especially in a child, may be more serious than a deeper but limited burn on the extremities. A burn is usually said to be more severe than a scald, as the fluid producing the latter generally quickly cools and runs off. A scald, however, owes its severity to the large extent of surface usually implicated, and when produced by molten metal or boiling oil which adheres to the part is generally very serious. Burns and scalds, when severe, give rise to constitutional as well as local effects. The local effects may be considered under Diipuytren's division of burns into six degrees. These degrees, however, may be variously combined in the same burn. 1st degree.—Simple erythema, due to increased flow of blood through the dilated vessels. ' No tissue destruc- tion ensues, and no scar is left. 2nd degree.—Vesication, due to the exudation from the dilated capillaries of the cutis causing the superficial layers of the epithelium to be raised from the deeper in the form of blebs. No scar is left, as only the superficial layers of the epithelium are destroyed, and these are soon reproduced from the deeper layers. Some slight staining of the skin, however, may subsequently remain. 3rd degree.—Destruction of the cuticle and part of the true shin,—The epithelium around the hair-follicles, in the sweat-glands, and between the papillse, escapes, and rapidly forms new epithelium over the granulating surface left on the separation of the sloughs. A scar results, but as it contains all the elements of the true skin, the integrity of the part is retained, and hence there