FRACTURE OF THE PELYIS. 425 more or less smasliing both the false and true pelvis. "The fracture owes its importance to the liability of the pelvic viscera to be injured. Thus the bladder is not infrequently ruptured; or the urethra torn across by a fragment of the pubic arch; or the rectum or intestines lacerated, when the sacrum or the venter of the ilium is implicated. Signs,—The history of the accident, and perhaps the mark of a wheel across the lower part of the body, will commonly direct attention to the possibility of a fracture. On grasping the crests of the ilia firmly, preternatural mobility or crepitus may be discovered and pain produced, whilst the patient is usually unable to walk or to turn himself in bed without great suffering. A displaced fragment may sometimes be felt through the vagina or rectum. There is usually considerable shock, and where any of the viscera have been ruptured, commonly severe collapse, {^ee Buvture of Bladder, Urethra, &c,) Treatment.—As the bone readily unites, little beyond keeping the parts at rest and in apposition is required. This may be done by applying a flannel bandage firmly round the pelvis and confining the patient to bed for three to five weeks according to the severity of the fracture. Where there has been much crushing a gutta-percha or poroplastic felt shield should be moulded to the pelvis and hip of the affected side to prevent any movement of the fragments by the use of the joint. In any case a catheter should be passed in order to make sure that the urinary apparatus is not injured. Fracture of the acetabulum.—A word or two in addition may be said of this form of fracture of the pelvis.—The rim of the acetabulum, generally the posterior and upper part, may be broken off in some forms of dislocation of the femur on to the dorsum ilii. Beside the ordinary symp- toms of the dislocation, crepitus will generally be detected on manipulation, and the head of the femur will slip in and out of the acetabulum. Or the fracture may extend through the floor of the acetabulum, the head of the bone being even driven into the pelvis. Crepitus may then be detected ; or the head of the bone may be immovably fixed and the limb shortened. Pain is present on movement or on attempting to stand on the limb; also, it is said, on pressing on the pubes. Treatment.—Extension may be made by a long splint, or by a stirrup, weight, and pulley.