338 DISEASES OI' SPECIAL TISSUES. Lymphadenitis, or inflammation of the lymphatic glands, may be acute, subacute, or chronic. Acute and subacute inflammation is nearly always secondary to inflammation of the parts from which the a:fferent lymphatics proceed. Indeed, in most inflamma- tions, there is some tenderness of the neighbouring glands. The lymphatic yessels themselves, although the glands may become extensively involved, and even suppurate, often escape. The inflammation, however^ rarely pro- | ceeds further in the course of the lymphatics than the I first series of lymphatic glands, although it often spreads I to the surrounding tissues {peri-lymphadenitis). The I changes in the inflamed gland are like those of other in- P flammations. The whole gland is enlarged, the vessels dilated, and the lymph-sinuses crowded with cells. Micro- organisms, similar to those found in the inflammatory lesion giving rise to the lymphadenitis, have been dis- covered in the glands. The signs are tenderness, heat, pain and swelling, followed by redness of the skin and oedema. The gland, at first moveable, becomes fixed, and if the process runs on into suppuration, the usual signs of an abscess ensue. Familiar examples of lymph- adenitis are seen in the bubo of gonorrhoea, in the tender glands of erysipelas, and in the suppurating bubo of soft chancre. The treatment consists in subduing the inflam- mation of the part from which the lymphatics proceed, painting the glands with glycerine and belladonna, apply- ing a hot poultice, and, if suppuration occurs, in making a free incision. Chronic lymphadenitis is very common in strumous children, especially in the neck. The affection of the glands can frequently be traced to some exciting cause, as the irritation of pediculi on the head, eczematous affec- tions about the mouth, enlarged tonsils, or carious teeth. In other cases, it depends upon the presence of the tubercle bacillus. See T^t5erc^e, p. 49. The glands slowly enlarge, and become infiltrated with small round cells; whilst in the tubercular cases, non-vascular areas containing giant-cells, lymphoid corpuscles, and tubercle bacilli are found. The enlargement may subside, or the inflamma- tory products may caseate, and suppuration occur in, or in and around the gland; at times, the caseous mass may dry up and become cretaceous, or atrophy or fibroid thickening may ensue. In rare instances the tubercle may become disseminated, leading to general tuberculosis.