760 DISEASES OE REGIONS. large stones, and for certain forms of tumour in the bladder. First, pass a Petersen's india-rubber bag into the rectum, and dilate it with water, and distend the bladder with a weak antiseptic solution, it will then rise well into the abdomen and appear as a prominent tumour, dull to percussion, above the pubes. Make an incision in the middle line immediately above the symphysis (Fig. 253, b), and having divided on a director the tissues forming the linea alba, expose the wall of the bladder by gently separating the fatty tissue that lies in front of it with the finger or director, avoiding the peritoneal fold and, if possible, the large veins which ramify in this situation. The bladder having been fixed by inserting a sharp hook into its walls, make an incision into it; intro- duce the finger to ascertain the size of the stone; enlarge the wound, if necessary, by cutting on a director towards the pubes, and extract the stone with the finger and scoop, or with the forceps. The wound in the bladder may be left open, and the patient placed on his side to ensure an efficient drain and prevent the tissues being infiltrated with urine ; or it may, if the bladder and urine are healthy, be closed by suture. Some tie in a full-sized catheter, but it is not necessary and is perhaps harmful. Calculus i^^ the eemale bladder is much less common than in the male, a fact in great part due to the shorter and more dilatable urethra in women, to the absence of a prostate and consequent exemption of the female from chronic retention and phosphatic deposits, and perhaps also to the more regular habits of women. The symptoms are similar to those in the male, but are sometimes apt to be accompanied by incontinence of urine. They may at times be simulated by vascular growths in the urethra, by uterine disease, and by hysteria. Treatment.—1. When the stone is small, rapid dilatation of the urethra with the three-bladed dilator or dressing forceps is the best method of extraction. 2. When of larger size (above three-quarters of an inch in children and one inch in adults), lithotrity with removal of the fragments at one sitting should be done. 3. When too large for removal by dilatation, and the bladder is too contracted to allow of crushing, the suprapubic operation is called for. Slow dilatation, dilation with incision (urethal lithot- omy), and incision through the vagina [vaginal lithotomy)