658 DISEASES OF REGIONS. the symptoms will at once become acute. Thus a slowly contracting stricture may become suddenly obstructed by the impaction of faeces, or by a portion of intestine im- mediately above becoming invaginated into it; or acute peritonitis may suddenly supervene, owing to the giving way of an ulcerated portion of intestine above a stric- ture, &c. The DIAGNOSIS of the various pathological conditions causing obstruction or strangulation of the intestines, though sometimes comparatively easy, is often very diffi- cult, or even impossible. Your first care, when called to a patient with signs of acute abdominal obstruction, i.e.^ pain, vomiting, constipation, and possibly distension of the abdomen, should be to exclude external strangulated hernia, not merely contenting yourself with examining the femoral and inguinal rings, but also making a careful search in the less common situations of hernia, as the ob- turator foramen and sciatic notch. Should there be any fulness, or the least suspicion of strangulation in any of these regions, an exploratory incision should be made. Having satisfied yourself of the absence of external her- nia, you should next carefully examine the abdomen by inspection, palpation, and percussion, and explore the rectum and vagina with the finger; whilst the former canal may, in some instances, be further examined by carefully passing a long enema-tube or even by intro- ducing the whole hand. At times something may be learnt by inflating the colon with hydrogen gas or by slowly distending it by the fountain syringe with fluids, the patient being in the genu-pectoral position. Senn has shown that gas will pass the ileo-ceecal valve, causing as it does so a distinct rushing sound with diminution of pressure as indicated by the mercurial manometer attached to the inflating rubber-bag. If there is no obstruction the gas can be forced through the whole intestine and out at the mouth. Should a hernia be discovered exhibiting well- marked local signs of strangulation, or on introducing the finger into the rectum a stricture be felt or the bowel be found loaded with hardened fseces, or blood and slime escape from the anus and a sausage-shaped tumour be detected in the abdomen or rectum, the diagnosis of strangulated hernia, stricture of the rectum, impaction of hardened faeces and intussusception respectively can be readily made. But when, on the other hand, the her- nial rings are found free, the rectum empty, and nothing