DISEASES OP REGIONS. 572 are occasionally met with, and may be destroyed by the galvano-cautery, or removed by the ligature or knife. Fibrous^ fatty^ myxomatous, adenomatous, sarcomatous, and carcinomatous tumours other than the squamous variety, which has already been described under epitheliomatous ulceration, are too rare in the tongue to call for further remark. For mucous tubercles and gummata see Syphilis of the Tongue. Syphilis of the toi^gue may occur as: 1. Primary chancre. 2. Mucous tubercles. 3. Superficial glossitis. 4. Superficial and deep ulceration; and 5. Grummata. Primary chancres, which are very rare in this situation, require no description. Mucous tubercles consist, as else- where, of heapings up of epithelium over infiltrated and enlarged papillae, and appear as flattened elevations of a greyish-white colour. They are generally present on the palate and fauces at the same time Mercury internally, and black wash locally, cause them rapidly to disappear. Biiperficial glossitis and the superficial and deep ulcerations have already been described. Gummata occur as hard, globular masses in the fibrous tissue of the septum, and also in the substance of the muscle. They may be single or multiple. The mucous membrane covering them is at first natural in appearance, but, as the gumma softens, it gives way, and a deep syphilitic ulcer is produced. Iodide of potassium is the remedy. Excision" oe the tongue may be performed in many ways. Only those methods in most general use will be here described. They will be considered under the heads of, excision with (1) the knife, (2) the ecraseur, (3) the scissors, (4) the galvano-cautery. 1. Excision with the hnife, on account of the profuse haemorrhage which attends it, is only applicable when the anterior portion of the tongue requires removal. The tongue should be well drawn forward and the diseased portion cut away with one sweep of the knife, and the bleeding vessels tied. 2. The ecraseur is frequently used at St. Bartholomew's. The mouth having been widely opened by a gag, two ligatures are passed through the tongue, one on either side of the tip, and the mucous membrane, where it is reflected from the tongue to the jaw, is divided with scissors along with some of the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus. The mucous membrane covering the dorsum of the tongue is next divided in the middle line by a bistoury from the