33 ULOERATIOIS" AND TJLCEES. whilst in ulceration the broken-down tissues and pus are cast off as soon as formed as a discharge or ichor. An abscess may therefore be said to be a closed ulcer, an ulcer an open abscess. This molecular death of the tissues serves to distinguish ulceration from gangrene^ in which the tissues die en masse and^are cast off in the form of a slough7 TEeTwo'^processes, however, are fre- qu^tly combined. The softening and breaking down of a new growth, though not generally due to inflamma- tion, is also spoken of as ulceration. Ulceration may occur in any tissue of the body. Here, however, our description will chiefly apply to the process as it affects the skin or mucons membrane. Let us first study the process as it may be followed with the naked eye in a portion of inflamed skin. The cuticle in the centre of the inflamed spot separates or is rubbed off, and a raw surface is thus ]eft which gradually enlarges in depth and extent, leaving an angry-looking sore exuding a sanious discharge. Supposing the destructive process to now cease, minute red points called granulations spring up from the surface of the sore, and the discharge is replaced by pus. The ulcer skins over from the margins, till the raw surface is thus covered in, and finally a scar only is left to mark the situation of the former wound. The Minute Changes are as follows :—The tissues at the focus of inflammation where stasis has already occurred become infiltrated with serum and leucocytes; the cells Fig. 4.—Diagram of ulceration. Formation of granulation-tissue. New capillaries growing out amongst the small round cells from the old capillaries. of the Malpighian layer of the epidermis, of the dermis, and of the subcutaneous tissue proliferate; the cells of the cuticle are in consequence pushed forward before they have had time to assume their horny character, and the cuticle thus softened readily separates or is rubbed off, leaving the dermis raw and exposed. The infiltrated and softened tissues forming the surface of the sore