GENJ:EAL pathology OY INjtllilES. 150 and die of blood-poisoning, especially wlien the subject of kidney disease or other visceral trouble. "When about the bead and face it may spread to the pharynx, and thence to the larynx, and end fatally from oedematous laryngitis; or it may attack the membranes of the brain and set up meningitis. Eelapses are common. Treatment.—The bowels should be opened by a smart purge (Calomel, gr. y. d. jalap, gr. viii), and subsequently lierchloride of iron given in large doses (Tinct: ferri perchlor: m. xl, quartis horis). Slop diet is usually re- quired at first) but as the constitutional symptoms gene- rally assume a low tyjDC, the patient should not be too much depressed, as a stimulating plan of treatment will j)robably sooner or later be indicated. Thus, ammonia and bark, brandy and egg mixture, brandy, strong beef- tea, &c., are called for should the temperature run high, the pulse become soft, and the tongue dry and brown, or low muttering delirium set in. Locally, nothing answers, better than dusting the part with equal quantities of oxide of zinc and starch powder, and enclosing it in a thick layer of cotton-wool. When there is an unhealthy wound, means should be taken to render this aseptic ; but strong antiseptics, as carbolic acid, must be avoided, as they cause too much irritation. Should there be any collection of pus, or other pent-up discharge, it must of course be let out, and the part efficiently drained. When a patient is attacked with erysipelas in an hospital, he should be removed to an isolation ward, and the greatest care taken not to infect other patients. It was an old practice to draw a stick of nitrate of silver over the skin in front of the spreading edge of redness, and it was said that the erysipelas would not pass over this line. Since the teaching has been in vogue that the inflammatory re-action follows the spread of the micrococci, and is salutary in that the leucocytes destroy the micro- organisms, attempts have been made to set up inflam- mation in front of the encroaching microphyte's by j)aint- ing the skin with tincture of iodine. Cases in which the disease is said to have been thus arrested have been reported. 2. CeLLULO-CUTANEOUS, OR PHLEGMONOUS ERYSI- PELAS, differs from the preceding variety, in that it in- volves the subcutaneous tissue as well as the skin. It has not been proved to be inoculable, and is generally believed to depend upon a poison different to that setting up the