212 INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. except wlien the extravasation is large, is usually ab- sorbed, but may break down and suppuration ensue. Wounds.—Punctured and incised wounds wben small and parallel to tbe long axis of even large veins readily beal by adhesive inflammation without obliteration of the lumen of the vessel. At times, however, a clot may form in the wound, and successive layers be deposited upon it until ultimately the vein is occluded. When a vein is com- pletely cut across, as in amputations, it usually collapses as far as the next pair of valves, a clot forms as high as the first collateral branch, and the vein becomes permanently occluded in a way similar to that described under Heal- ing of Wounded Arteries. In consequence, however, of the vein-wall containing less elastic and muscular tissue than an artery, bleeding sometimes continues unless stopped artificially. Treatment.—When the wound is a mere puncture in the continuity of the vein, unless it is found that pressure will control the haemorrhage, the coats should be nipped up by forceps and a lateral ligature applied. If a vein continues to bleed during an amputation it should be tied like an artery. A large wound, or one made in the longitudinal axis of a large vein, necessitates ligature of the vein in two places, and the division of the vessel between the two ligatures. The dangers of wounds of veins are :—1. Haemorrhage. 2. Inflammation of a septic character, and the attendant risks of blood-poisoning from the detachment of the in- fected clots. 3. Entrance of air. Entrance oe air into veins is fortunately a rare acci- dent. It sometimes happens in operations about the root of the neck where the disposition of the cervical fascia prevents the veins collapsing and thus allows air to be sucked in during inspiration. Air is known to have entered a vein by the hissing sound during inspiration, the escape of frothy blood from the vein on expiration, the urgent dyspnoea, and the state of collapse into which the patient immedi- ately falls. On listening over the heart a peculiar churn- ing sound can be heard. Death in fatal cases usually occurs in a few minutes and is due to the admixture of blood and air preventing the circulation through the capillaries of the lungs and so causing distension and paralysis of the right side of the heart. Treatment,—The finger should at once be placed over the hole in the vein to prevent more air entering, and a clamp or ligature applied