307 anel's operation. the Hunterian method is inapplicable, as for aneurysm in the groin, aneurysm of the upper part of the common carotid, &c. The disadvantages said to attend it are— 1, that the artery is likely to be diseased, and hence there is greater risk of secondary haemorrhage; 2, that its anatomical relations are apt to be disturbed by the contiguity of the sac; 3, that the sac itself is liable to be injured during the operation, and to become inflamed and suppurate; and 4, that the clot which forms in the sac is of the soft or passive variety in consequence of there being no circulation in the sac. Eecently this method has been revived at St. Bartholomew's for the treatment of popliteal aneurysm and the popliteal artery is there now frequently tied. It has been found to diminish the risk of gangrene and holds out a greater certainty of cure. Gangrene is less likely to occur when only the popliteal is obstructed close to the aneurysm than when both the popliteal and femoral are blocked. Eecurrent pulsation and failure after ligature of the femoral are due to too free a supply of blood flowing into the artery below the ligature (Figs. 87, 91); when the popliteal is tied this is prevented. Moreover the popliteal has been found quite as healthy as the femoral, it is easily tied at its upper part without disturbing the sac, and there appear to be sufficient small vessels to ensure some cir- culation in the sac and the formation of an active clot. 2. The distal ligature should only be used where the Hunterian or Anel's method cannot be applied. Brasdor^s method, which consists in securing the main trunk on the distal side of the aneurysm, may be employed in aneurysm of the carotid at the root of the neck. It copies that method of spontaneous cure in which a clot blocks the artery beyond the aneurysm. After the ligature the clot that forms in the artery may extend to the aneurysm, which thus becomes filled by a coagulum; or the blood pressure in the sac may become so diminished that laminated fibrin is deposited. Unfortunately, however, in practice the blood-pressure in the aneurysm appears in some cases to be increased rather than diminished. Wardrop^s method consists in securing two or more of the main branches of the artery on the distal side of the aneurysm. It aims at cutting off part of the blood-stream through the aneurysm, and so, by reducing the blood- pressure, promoting the deposition of laminated coagu- lum. It has been applied to the subclavian and carotid X 2