INJURIES or REGIONS. 428 A catheter should not be tied in, for fear of it inducing septic changes in the nrine, but the patient should be made to regularly empty his bladder every .four hours to guard against oyer-distension and the giving way of the sutures. When it is not clear whether the rupture is intra- or extra-peritoneal, the fundus of the bladder should be exposed before opening the reflection of the peritoneum. Extra-peritoneal rupture should be treated by a free incision in the perineum, or above the pubes, and an antiseptic drain. Nothing, as a rule, should be given by the mouth for the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours. Where, however, there is extreme collapse, stimulants may be cautiously administered. As in other peritoneal cases it is a moot question whether opium should be used as a matter of routine. Rupture of the urethra is a serious injury, as it exposes the patient not only to the immediate danger of extravasation of urine, but also to the life-long trouble of a traumatic stricture. It is generally caused by a kick on the perineum, a fall astride a joist or rail, or the dis- placement of a fragment of the pubic arch in fracture of the pelvis. The urethra may also give way behind an old stricture while the patient is straining to empty his bladder. State of the parts.—The rupture usually occurs where the urethra passes under the pubic arch, i.e., either just in front of or just behind the triangular ligament. In the former situation urine and blood will be extravasated in the perineum; in the latter, about the neck of the bladder. As the triangular ligament, however, is generally torn, some urine will, as a rule, in the latter case also pass forward into the perineum. The urethra may be com- pletely torn across, or the rupture may only be partial, the upper wall escaping. The signs are usually quite obvious. Together with the history of an accident, there will be pain, swelling, and ecchymosis of the perineum, and escape of blood, often in considerable quantities, from the urethra. The patient is unable to pass water, and any attempt to do so merely forces more urine into the tissues of the perineum and gives pain. On trying to pass a catheter some obstruc- tion is generally met with, and will often prove insur- mountable ; but if the catheter is finally passed, clear urine will escape. These signs distinguish it from rup- tured bladder, in which injury the catheter passes easily,