547 GLAUCOMA. rhages on it. The tension may be normal or increased, and there may be secondary glaucomatous symptoms. The treatment^ unless the tumour is very large, is immediate excision of the eye and removal of as much of the optic nerve as possible. The prognosis is very unfavourable. YiTREOUS OPACITIES are usually due to inflammation {hyalitis) associated with diseases of the uveal tract or retina, but often occur in extreme myopia, and from retinal and choroidal haemorrhages. The opacities may be of different shapes and sizes, and in syphilis are very minute and dust-like. The patient complains of seeing black specks floating about, and vision is sometimes reduced. Owing to degeneration the vitreous may be fluid, and contain cholesterine crystals. Suppuration' of the yitkeous {suppurative hyalitis) is due to injury or to extension of a purulent uveitis, and is sometimes called pseudo-glioma, from its yellowish fundus- reflex. Foreign bodies, as steel, glass, &c., may be found in the vitreous, and, when steel or iron, may be removed by the electro-magnet introduced through the original wound when scleral, or through an incision in the sclerotic. YII. Glaucoma. Glaucoma is a condition of the eye dependent on excess of the intra-ocular pressure. Tho chief symptoms are increased intra-ocular tension (elicited by palpating the eyeball with both index fingers through the closed lids); pain and tenderness ; enlargement of the perfo- rating vessels; impaired sensibility, sfceaminess, and pitted appearance of the cornea; shallow anterior chamber; dilatation of the pupil; greenish fundus reflex; pulsation of the retinal arteries, and engorgement of the retinal veins; undermining and cupping of the optic disk; diminished acuity of vision and light sense; and limitation of field of vision chiefly at nasal side. These symptoms are generally preceded or accompanied by smoky vision (everything seen in a grey or yellow fog), coloured concentric rings round lights, neuralgia along the branches of the fifth nerve, and rapidly increasing presbyopia necessitating frequent changes of glasses. Varieties.—Glaucoma may be divided into (1) acute, (2) subacute, and (3) chrome. 1. Acute glaucoma is characterized hj the severity and N N 2