683 STRAKGTJLATED HERKIA. due to adhesions and the like, it cannot be thus overcome, though with the use of the hinge-cup truss adhesions if not too firm may gradually elongate and disappear. Otherwise the question of an operation for a radical cure maybe raised. 3. Strangulated hernia.—This form of hernia is one in which the protruded portion of intestine or omen- tum is so tightly gripped, that not only is its return into the abdomen prevented, but the circulation through its blood-vessels is so impeded, that congestion, followed by inflammation and gangrene, speedily ensues, if the stran- gulation is not soon relieved. Causes.—1. The sudden forcing of intestine or omentum through a ring or aperture so small that it is tightly gripped from the moment of its descent. This is usually the cause of strangulation in a recent hernia or in an old hernia which has suddenly descended through the patient's neglect to put on his truss. 2. The increase of bulk in the hernia subsequent to its descent, and its consequent constriction where it passes through the aperture or ring. This is usually the cause of strangulation in irreducible hernia, or in hernise that have not been kept up by a truss. Such an increase in bulk may be induced by: (a), the sudden protrusion of a fresh portion of omentum or intestine on the top of that already down; (&), the swelling of the intestine from catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane, or from its becoming obstructed by faeces or flatus; and (c), congestion and inflammation of the omentum. The seat of constriction, or as it is technically called the stricture, is generally either (1), outside the sac, i.e., at one of the tendinous rings, or other aperture through which the hernia has passed; or (2), m the neck of the sac itself; whilst (3), in very rare instances, it may be inside the sac, the intestine having slipped through a hole in the omentum, or become entangled by a band of adhesions. Mechanism of strangulation.—The compression of the veins at the seat of stricture impedes the return of venous blood from the protruding portion of intestine or omentum, and congestion followed by inflammation and gangrene ensues more or less quickly according to the completeness of the obstruction. The congestion, moreover, induces paralysis of the muscular coat and consequent cessation of its peristaltic action and the onward flow of the intestinal contents. For strangulation to occur it is not necessary