DISEASES OF REGIOT^S. 618 Tubercle oe the larynx, also called laryngeal phthisis, may sometimes occur as a primary affection, though it is generally secondary to tubercle of the lung. It is characterized by the formation of miliary tubercles under the mucous membrane, which subsequently break down, leading to ulceration. The symptoms are those of ordinary chronic laryngitis, but in addition to these, the patient often presents signs of pulmonary phthisis. On examination the mucous membrane looks pale, and the aryteno-epiglottidean folds swollen and often of a pyri- form shape; later, ulceration will be discovered, and may be followed by caries and necrosis of the laryngeal cartilages, dysphagia, and oedema of the glottis. Treat- ment.—The usual constitutional treatment for tubercular diseases must be employed. When ulceration has occurred insufflation of morphia and painting the part with cocaine before taking food may be tried to relieve the cough and the difficulty and pain in swallowing. Should swallowing become impossible, the patient should be fed with the oesophageal tube whilst lying face down- wards. Tracheotomy must be performed if suffocation threatens. Syphilis of the larynx.—In the secondary stages of syphilis, catarrhal inflammation, superficial ulceration, and mucous patches may occur; whilst in the tertiary stages characteristic ulcers due to the breaking down of gummata are not very uncommon. Tertiary ulceration may extend to the perichondrium, or a gumma may begin beneath that membrane, and in either case lead to necrosis or caries of the cartilages. On the healing of the ulcers contractions and adhesions producing stenosis of the larynx may ensue. Greneral syphilitic treatment, appro- priate to the stage, should be employed. Scarifica- tion or tracheotomy are called for in tertiary affections should oedema of the glottis supervene. In stenosis an attempt may be made to dilate the contracted glottis by means of O'Dwyer's tubes, or the stricture may be divided with a guarded knife, or with the galvano-cautery. Tumours both innocent and malignant occur in the larynx. Of the former the papillomata and fibromata are the most common, of the latter the epitheliomata. The papilloinata occur as warty or pedunculated excrescences, or as soft, flocculent, villous-like bodies, and generally grow from the vocal cords and front of the larynx (Fig. 236). They may be single or multiple. The fibromata are less