124 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. larger vessels. The skin is bathed in profuse perspiration, the respiration is sighing, and the mind wanders. These symptoms may end in syncope, convulsions, and death; or the patient may slowly recover, or may suffer from anaemia or functional disturbance for years. If he is old, some secondary disease is apt to be engrafted on this state of anaemia, of which he may die. Children bear the loss of blood badly, but recover rapidly; the old stand the loss better, but the effect on their constitution is more permanent. Constitutional treatment of hcemorrhage.—When the bleeding has been severe, immediate steps must be taken to prevent fatal syncope; and after this danger has been tided over, we must then seek to counteract the remote effects produced upon the whole system by the loss of blood. 1. Immediate treatme^it.—Our efforts must first be directed to arrest, or at any rate to temporarily control, the haemorrhage by some of the local measures to be presently described. Having done this, the chief indica- tion is to prevent fatal syncope by ensuring a sufficient supply oi blood to the brain to excite the cardiac ceiitre in the medulla oblongata. Thus, the patient should be laid on his back with his head low, his body warmly covered up, and hot bottles placed at his feet; or if the pulse does not improve, stimulants in small quantities should be administered, by the mouth if he can swallow. whilst in severe cases the legs and arms shouHoe held up, or an Esmarch's bandage applied to them in order the better to drive the blood to the brain. As a last resource, infusion of a saline solution should be practised. "Where theTileedihg is"^^^^^ be arrested, stimulants should be avoided, inasmuch as the syncope into which the patient has fallen tends temporarily to stop the bleeding by inducing clotting of the blood in the wounded vessels. If the heart be again roused to action by stimulants and the vessels in consequence become dilated, the clots may be displaced, the bleeding re-started, and the last flickering spark of life put out. 2. To counter- act the remote effects of the loss of blood, fluid nourishment should be given in small quantities, and then eggs, fish, and finally meat. Irop- is required to restore the JjQss-of haematin, and a sea-voyage or prolonged residence in the country is beneficial in overcoming the anaemia. Transfusion of hlood and infusion of saline solution into otherwise by the _ rectum