DISEASES OF REGIONS. 794 only need be mentioned tlie treatment to be adopted in cases of retention from this cause. An endeavour should first be made to pass a catheter, if necessary under an anaesthetic. If this fails, and the symptoms are not urgent, a hot bath and a full dose of tincture of opium may be given, and another trial made in a few hours. Where, however, there are signs of grave kidney mischief, opium must be withheld or given with great caution. Should these means not succeed, or if from the first the symptoms are urgent, one of the following methods may be resorted to, viz.: 1. Aspiration, or puncture of the bladder above the pubes; 2. Wheelhouse's operation; 3. Puncture of the bladder through the rectum; 4. Cock's operation of open- ing the urethra behind the stricture through an incision in the perineum; and 5. Forcing a catheter into the bladder. The last method is highly objectionable, and should on no account be practised. Of the other methods aspiration above the pubes, repeated, if necessary, should the stricture not quickly yield after the spasm has been removed by emptying the bladder and thus reducing the tension, is in my opinion the best. Puncture through the rectum is strongly recommended by some Surgeons ; but it is open to the objection that suppuration between the bladder and rectum, extravasation of urine, and a permanent recto-vesical fistula, are liable to follow, to say nothing of the annoyance to the patient from the pre- sence of the cannula in the rectum, and the excoriation of the parts by the urine, which, notwithstanding care, is apt to occur. The vas deferens, moreover, may be injured and atrophy of the testicle ensue. Cock's opera- tion is difficult to perform, and does not appear to possess any advantage over aspiration or puncture above the pubes. Should the passage of a catheter not be effected after the bladder has been aspirated on several occasions, Wheelhouse's operation should be undertaken. Aspira- tion, though as a rule attended with excellent results, is not absolutely free from danger. Thus it should not be practised when the urine is unhealthy or the walls of the bladder are thinned and atonied lest a drop or two escape through the puncture and set up septic inflammation and suppuration, which may be followed by extravasation of urine. 5. Retention from hysteria should be combated by such moral and physical treatment as is applicable to that disease. A catheter should not be passed if it can be