DISEASES OF REGIONS. 826 perfectly understood, the student must be referred to a special work on tlie subject. Symptoms.—There may be no symptoms.at first; but as the tumour increases in size, it gradually encroaches On the space normally allotted to the pelvic and abdominal viscera, giving rise to one or more of the following symptoms. Thus, from pressure on the bladder and rectum there may be increased micturition and constipa- tion ; from pressure on the iliac vessels, oedema of the lower limbs and genitals; from pressure on the sacral and lumbar plexus, pain in the back, pudenda, and legs; from pressure on the stomach, nausea and vomiting; on the intestines, diarrhoea or colicky pains ; on the portal vein, ascites and haemorrhoids; on the kidneys and ureters, albuminous and highly-concentrated urine rich in urates. Later, as the tumour extends upwards, there will be embarrassed breathing and dyspnoea from pres- sure on the heart and lungs; whilst finally emaciation sets in, and the patient dies of exhaustion, if not carried off by an intercurrent attack of peritonitis from rupture of the cyst. The physical signs vary according to the size of the cyst, and the diagnosis at first may be attended with some difficulty. But as the cyst rises out of the pelvis, and the abdomen becomes gradually distended, the con- dition known as ovarian dropsy is produced, the physical signs of which somewhat resemble dropsy of the peri- toneum (ascites) depending on visceral disease. In ovarian dropsy the abdomen is dull in front, resonant in the flanks; the dulness is not altered by position; and the distension is greatest in the hypogastric and um- bilical regions. Whereas in ascites the abdomen is resonant in front, dull in the flanks; the dulness is altered by position, the dull flank becoming resonant when the patient is placed on the opposite side ; the dis- tension is most marked laterally; and the circumference of the abdomen is greatest at the level of the umbilicus. In both a percussion wave or thrill generally exists, but in ovarian disease it is usually limited to the dull area, whilst in ascites it is as a rule felt all over. In ascites, moreover, there is probably other evidence of the visceral disease which is producing the dropsy; and if the abdomen is punctured the fluid will be found to be of a thin and serous character. In ovarian disease the uterus is usually displaced. An ovarian tumour may also have