DISEASES or BEGIONS. 538 the wound the iridectomy forceps closed with the points directed towards the posterior surface of the cornea, open the forceps, seize the pupillary border of the iris, slowly draw it out, and snip it off with the scissors 'either parallel to the wound, or at right angles to the wound across the cornea. Carefully return the edges of the coloboma with a curette (Fig. 190), and bandage up the eye. In iridec- tomy for glaucoma it is usual to have a large corneal incision (some operators prefering a Graefe's knife), and to remove the iris up to the ciliary border. Cyclitis, or inflammation of the ciliary body, rarely occurs without other parts of the uveal tract being involved. The symptoms are circumcorneal zone of redness, pain and tenderness in the ciliary region, pain on accom- modating, and often hypopyon and vitreous opacities. It is best treated by atropine and leeches. Choroiditis, except as part of a more general inflam- mation, is rarely accompanied by external signs or severe Fig. 190.—Curette. pain. Ophthalmoscopically there may be, if recent, soft yellowish white exudation patches either at the yellow spot or elsewhere; these patches on clearing up leave as a rule atrophy of the choroid, showing the sclerotic through, and the edges bordered by disturbance of pig- ment. The atrophic patches may be ringed, diffused, or punctate, and if due to hsemorrhage from the choroidal vessels are generally large and deeply pigmented. The retinal vessels always pass over these patches of choroiditis. Vision is as a rule affected, but not always. The usual causes are syphilis (acquired and congenital), myopia, tubercle and haemorrhages. In syphilitic cases mercurial treatment should be continued for a lengthened period. Uveitis, or general inflammation of the uveal tract, commonly starts in the ciliary body, and is characterized by the chief symptoms of iritis, cyclitis, and choroiditis. It may be divided into (1), purulent, and (2), plastic. 1. Purulent uveitis {panophthalmitis) has usually a traumatic origin, but may occur in pyaemia and in old blind eyes. The symptoms are extreme pain, acute congestion and oedema of the lids and conjunctiva, and