LY MPHADENOMA. 339 Signs,—The glands, when those of the neck (the most common situation) are affected, become enlarged on one or both sides of the neck, without pain. They are at first distinct and moveable, but later often coalesce and become adherent to the surrounding parts. After a time, they may soften and break down ; the skin then becomes adherent and red, gives way, and a curdy pus is exuded. After the abscess has thus opened, a portion of the broken-down gland may be seen in the floor of the ulcer, the edges of which are bluish-pink, and undermined. See Tubercular Ulcers. The ulcers are very indolent, and when finally healed, leave characteristic raised, puckered, pinkish-white scars. Concomitant signs of struma or tubercle are frequently present. Treatment,—Any source of irritation, such as pediculi, carious teeth, &c., should be sought and removed, and the patient, if tuberculous, treated as indicated at p. 53, The glands had better be left alone, unless suppuration threatens, when they should be removed. If an abscess has already formed it should be opened early to prevent scarring. This may be done by a small incision, after which the capsule of the gland may be cleared out by a Yolkmann's spoon. Should an indolent ulcer or sinus remain, as often happens if the abscess is allowed to burst spontaneously, it should also be scraped with a Yolkmann's spoon and its edges destroyed by nitrate of silver or potassa fusa, or better, cut away. Lymph ADENOMA, or non-inflammatory enlargement of the lymphatic glands, consists of a simple hypertrophy oLthe ^land tissue, especially of the fibrous stroma of the gland, and is often associated with leukaemia^ or an increase of the white corpuscles of the blood, and with a general hypertrophy of the adenoid tissue of the body, especially of the spleen. The cause is unknown. One or two glands only may be affected (simple lymphadenoma or lymphoma)^ or many of the glands, especially those in the neck, axilla, and groin, or, indeed, all the glands of the body, together with the adenoid tissue in other organs [Hodgkin's disease). The enlargement differs from that of the in- flammatory affections, in that the glands remain free and distinct, and form smooth, rounded or egg-shaped, firm, elastic, and generally painless swellings, which, as a rule, do not suppurate. When one or two glands only are enlarged, the general health is not affected; but when many are involved, and especially when associated with a z 2