TUMOUBS OF BONE. 249 but puncture with a grooved needle, or even an explora- tory incision, may be required before the nature of the tumour can be cleared up. From an aneurysm, a pulsating sarcoma may be very difficult to distinguish, especially when growing from the pelvic bones. In the tumour the pulsation is not equally expansile over all parts, and although it may be stopped by pressure on the artery above, the tumour does not become smaller; _ nor is it felt to refill when the pressure is removed during two or three beats of the heart, as in aneurysm; and a bruit, if present, is not so distinct. Portions of expanded bone, moreover, may be felt in parts of the tumour, and there may be glandular enlargement and other general signs of malignancy. Erom an inflammatory condition of a neighbouring joint a tumour of the end of the bone may generally be distinguished by the absence of signs of inflammation; by the swelling being less regular in contour than in a, joint-affection, and apparently being connected more intimately with one of the bones entering into the articulation than with the other; and by a careful review of the history of the case. Treatment,—Periosteal growths, unless the glands are much enlarged and there is evidence of dissemination having occurred, call for amputation of the limb, or removal, if practicable, when growing from the bones of the head or trunk. Small growths, however, may at times be dissected off the shafts of the long bones, and the surface of the bone scraped, gouged away, or destroyed by the actual cautery. Endosteal growths, if small, may in some cases be enucleated, but usually, like the periosteal variety, call for amputation. In some situations, as in the head of the radius, the affected portion of bone may be excised. The treatment of sarcomata of the jaws and of other special regions is described under Tumours of the Jaws, &c. Carcinoma never occurs as a primary growth in bone. . It may spread to the bone, however, from the skin or mucous membrane, as seen, for example, in some cases of squamous carcinoma of the leg or lip, or be deposited there in the course of the general dissemination following on primary carcinoma of other tissues or organs, as the breast or liver. In the latter case it is seldom discovered till after death, unless it gives rise to spontaneous fracture (Fig. 64). Treatment,—Where epithelioma has spread to the bone, free and early removal with the knife before