DISEASES OF REGIONS. 721 be nndertaken, as in this way the whole may be removed, and not without reasonable hope in some of the less malignant forms of the disease of its not returning. Some cases have been reported where it has not done so for upwards of four years. Where removal seems im- practicable, or otherwise unadvisable, such palliative measures should be adopted as may render the last few months or years of the patient's life as comfortable as possible. Thus the bowel should be kept gently relaxed, the diet regulated, and the pain relieved by morphia sup- positories. In this way the patient can often follow his occupation in comparative comfort and with little incon- venience. Should, however, there be much pain and irritation on the passage of faeces, or obstruction threaten or have already occurred, colotomy should be performed (p. 670). This operation should not, as is too frequently the case, be regarded merely as a last resource, to be undertaken when obstruction has come on, as then the danger of the operation is greatly increased. Nor should it be undertaken in every instance, since the incon- venience caused by the cancer is not always sufficient to justify the patient undergoing the risk. Excision of the rectum may be performed if the finger can be passed beyond the growth; if the growtli is moveable ; if the glands are not involved, and if the patient is otherwise fairly healthy. The patient having been placed in the lithotomy position and a staff intro- duced into the bladder, a curved bistoury should be passed along the finger up the rectum, and its point made to emerge near the coccyx, and the intervening tissues cut through in the middle line. By this incision a free exposure is obtained. Lateral incisions are next made on each side of the anus, meeting in front, and the bowel is rapidly cleared either with the finger or with the handle of the scalpel from the tissues of the ischio-rectal fossa. The lower part of the rectum is now dissected more carefully from the urethra and prostate, and when it has been sufficiently freed, the ecraseur is placed above the growth, and the rectum removed, care being taken that the cord when tightened is not pulled down below the spot where it is intended to sever the bowel. If preferred the scissors may be substituted for the ecraseur, the vessels being then tied as they are cut. When the growth does not involve the whole of the bowel, a strip of mucous membrane should, if possible, be left. The wound should