696 DISEASES OE REGIO]S"S. restored, and the fa3ces again pass down tlie lower tube. A plastic operation will then only be required to close the external opening, if indeed this does not heal sponta- neously as in fsecal fistula. Special Hernim. The three most common forms of hernia are:—the inguinal, the femoral, and the umbilical. Of the rarer forms may be mentioned the obturator, the ventral, the epigastric, the diaphragmatic, the lumbar, the ischiatic, the perineal, the vaginal, and the rectal. Inguinal hernia is one which escapes into or through the inguinal canal. Of this form there are two chief varieties, the oblique or external, and the direct or internal. The OBLIQUE on external variety is so called because it descends oUiquely through the inguinal canal, and leaves the abdomen external to the deep epigastric artery. The hernia enters the canal by the internal abdominal ring, and may remain in the canal, when it is spoken of as incomplete, or, from its resemblance to a bubo, as a hubo- nocele; or it may pass through the canal and out of the external abdominal ring, when it is said to be complete, and is then termed a scrotal or lalial rupture, according as it descends into the scrotum or labium. The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia differ according as it is complete or incomplete, and occurs in the male or in the female. When complete and in the male they are from without inwards, 1, skin; 2, superficial and deep fascia; 3, intercolumnar fascia; 4, cremasteric fascia; 5, infundi- buliform fascia; 6, subperitoneal fat; and 7, peritoneum, which constitutes the sac. In the female the cremasteric fascia is wanting; otherwise the coverings are the same. In the incomplete the only difference in the coverings is that in place of the intercolumnar fascia there is the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and in place of the cremasteric fascia the lowermost fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis; they are the same in the male and female. The stricture, when the hernia is strangulated, will be situated at the external abdominal ring, the in- ternal abdominal ring, or anywhere in the inguinal canal between the two rings. Varieties of ohlique inguinal These will perhaps be better understood by reference to the accompanying