20 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. into the vessel, holding the lancet with the blade between his forefinger and thumb about half an inch from the point, to prevent it penetrating too deeply (Fig. 2). The blood is directed into a graduated bleeding-bowl, the flow if necessary being increased by the patient making his muscles act by grasping a stick. When sufficient blood has been taken (usually about 10 ozs.) the constricting tape is untied, a pad placed over the incision, and the ends of the tape carried across the pad to below the joint, then round the arm and again over the pad, where they are tied. The stimulating plan of treatment may be considered under the head of diet, drugs, and stimulants. The diet should consist of essence of beef, milk, eggs, milk- puddings, oysters, turtle soup, and of white fish and minced chops if solid food can be retained. Of drugs, ammonia and bark, or quinine and iron will generally be found of most service; whilst stimulants in the form of brandy, the brandy-and-egg mixture, port wine, cham- pagne, or any other that the patient has been accustomed to take, should be given in divided and measured doses at stated intervals. Stimulants increase the force of the heart's action, and so drive the blood through the in- flamed part, and maintain the circulation till the crisis has been tided over. The indications for their use are a feeble and frequent pulse, a high temperature, a dry and brown tongue, and general signs of prostration. CHRONIC INELAMMATION. The pathological process in chronic inflammation is essentially the same as in the acute; but the dilated vessels appear to lose their tone, and remain dilated for longer periods, and the escape of leucocytes and proliferation of the original tissue elements are con- tinuous. Further the inflammatory exudation contains less fibrin-forming material and albumen. Like the acute, it may terminate in resolution, suppuration or ulceration, but it is much more liable to produce chronic thickening, from the accumulation of the cellular elements in the tissues. It may also terminate in caseation or even calcification. The causes of chronic inflammation are similar to those of the acute, but they appear to act with less intensity