EXCISION OF JOINTS. 277 mine the acetabulum, and remove any carious bone or sequestrum that may be discovered with, the gouge or sequestrum forceps. Place the limb in the position of abduc- tion on a double Thomas's splint, so as to bring the stump of the neck into the acetabulum, and thus leave as little space as possible between the bones. After ankylosis has taken place the abducted position is of advantage, in that to bring the limbs parallel in walking the pelvis will have to be depressed on the affected side, and thus a good inch of lengthening is obtained to compensate for the shorten- ing produced by the excision of the head of the bone. Some surgeons now no longer use a drain-tube, but bring the deeper parts of the wound together by buried sutures, and having lightly closed the skin incision apply firm pressure over a dry antiseptic dressing, so as to keep the tissues in close apposition and thus obtain union by the first intention. 2. By the anterior incision. An incision four inches long is made from half an inch below the anterior superior iliac spine downwards and a little inwards between the sartorius and rectus on the inner side and the tensor vaginae and glutei on the outer side, and the joint opened from the front. In other respects the steps of the 'operation closely resemble those of the former method. The knee.—Provided none of the contra-indications to excision already enumerated are present, the knee may be excised for intractable disease of the synovial mem- brane, especially where the articular surfaces are much displaced, or for ankylosis in a faulty position. In the latter instance, however, a subcutaneous osteotomy is often preferable. The operation,—The knee being held in a flexed position by an assistant, make an incision from the posterior part of the condyle on one side, across the front of the joint midway between the patella and the tubercle of the tibia, to the corresponding situation on the other. Eaise the flap of skin with the subcutaneous tissue thus mapped out, and open the joint by cutting into it above the patella. Divide the lateral and crucial ligaments, and saw off a thin slice of bone from the lower end of the femur and from the upper end of the tibia, taking care not to injure the popliteal artery which lies close to the back of the joint and is only separated from it by the posterior ligament. If possible, the whole of the epiphysis should not be removed. The wound should then be closed with sutures, a small drain being inserted