DIAG-N-QSIS OF INTESTINAL OBSTHTJCTION. 659 can be felt in tlie abdomen, the difficulty of localizing the cause of the obstruction is great, and even after the most careful examination and thoughtful consideration of the symptoms it may only be possible to arrive at an approximate guess as to the nature of the case. Thus, if the symptoms are acute, the obstruction will probably be due to some form of internal strangulation or to a volvulus ; but it must not be lost sight of that it may be due to peri-typhlitis, acute enteritis or peritonitis, or pos- sibly to the impaction of a gall-stone. If the symptoms are chronic it may be due to stricture in the upper pai't of the rectum or lower part of the colon, malignant disease of the omentum or intestine, or chronic peritonitis. If acute symptoms have been engrafted on chronic, it may then be caused by the impaction of fseces above a stric- ture, peritonitis following perforation above a stricture or impaction of a foreign body in the vermiform ap- pendix, typhlitis, or peri-typhlitis. Although it may be impossible to make a diagnosis, the following considera- tions may help us. Thus, if the onset of the symptoms is sudden and the patient is an infant or a young child, the*cause of the obstruction will probably be intussus- ception or peritonitis. If the patient is elderly or middle- aged, and the symptoms are chronic, malignant stricture or impaction of fseces is the most probable cause. In middle age intussusception is rare. The tendency to vomit is in proportion to the nearness of the obstruction to the stomach, the tightness of the constriction, and the persistence with which food or fluid has been taken by the mouth. Early vomiting implies tightness of the stricture; violent retching or bile-vomiting points to gall-stones; fsecal vomiting only occurs when the obstruction is mode- rately low down. Vomiting may be absent in the case of obstruction of the colon or rectum. Einally, if peristalsis is visible, the case is almost certainly not one of acute peritonitis. 1. In impacted fmces there may be a history of previous . constipation, the rectum will probably be found distended, or feeces will be passed on the use of enemata. A swelling may be felt through the abdominal parietes, and . if so will be soft, and can perhaps be indented with the 'fingers. In ohstrucUon from gall-stones, there may be pain in the region of the gall-bladder, perhaps jaundice; gall-stones may have passed, or similar attacks have been previously suffered from, and the bowels may have acted uu 2