116 DISEASES OE REGIOjS'S. after a fair trial have failed, or when the piles are more or less constantly down. It need hardly be said that no operation should be performed when they are merely symptomatic of some more serious disease as stricture or cancer of the rectum, enlargement of the prostate, or disease of the uterus, bladder, or liver, or are the result of pregnancy. The method of removing the piles differs according as they are external or internal. External piles may be simply snipped off with the scissors, care being taken, however, not to remove too much of the integument lest troublesome contraction of the anal orifice should ensue. Internal piles may be treated by ligature, the clamp and cautery, crushing, injections with carbolic acid, excision, or the application of nitric acid. Whatever method is employed a purgative should be given the day before, and the rectum cleared on the morning of the operation by an enema; and after the patient is under the influence of the anaesthetic, the anus should be forcibly dilated to bring the parts well into view, and to paralyse the sphincter. If the ligature is employed, the most prominent pile should be seized with the pile-forceps or pile-hook, and the mucous membrane incised with the pile-scissors at its junction with the skin, so as to detach the pile and mucous membrane from the anal margin. A carbolized silk ligature should then be placed in the groove thus formed and tied tightly around the undetached base of the pile, taking care to include as much of the mucous mem- brane above the pile as possible. The greater part of the pile having been excised, the ends of the ligature are cut off and the stump of the pile returned after the others have been treated in a similar way. The parts should be thoroughly dusted with iodoform, a morphia suppository passed through the anus, and a large pad of iodoform wool applied and secured in situ by a T-bandage. The bowels should be kept confined for four or five days by small doses of opium combined with tincture of catechu, and then opened by an enema of olive oil. Should retention of urine occur, as is very common after operations on the rectum, it should be relieved by passing a soft catheter. The ligatures generally come away about the ninth to the eleventh day. Clamp and cautery.—A pile having been seized with the forceps, the clamp is applied to its base, the pile shaved oft*, and the raw surface cauterized.