776 DISEASES OE REGIONS. in tlie urine after some time has elapsed (see Hcematuria, p. 762). 2. A false passage may be produced by using too mucli force, or by applying force in the wrong direc- tion. It is known to have been made by the catheter being felt to slip suddenly onwards, by the handle deviating from the middle line, by the point being felt out of the urethra by the finger in the rectum, and by the patient complaining of severe pain. The catheter should be at once withdrawn and not passed again for a week or more to allow the wound to heal. 3. Abscess; 4, extravasa- tion of urine; and 5, inflammation of the prostate, testicle and bladder require no comment here. General effects.— 1. Syncope occasionally occurs on the first passage of a catheter. It is best avoided by passing the instrument with the patient in the recumbent posture. 2. The rigors which sometimes follow the first introduction of an in- strument appear to depend upon some nervous shock, and may occur where all gentleness has been employed and no local injury whatever has been inflicted. 3. TJrethral fever is most frequent in old people and may supervene within a day or two of the first catheterization. It begins with rigors followed by high fever, and usually terminates in a few days with profuse sweating. Occasionally, how- ever, it may end fatally, in which case there is nearly always some chronic kidney disease discovered at the autopsy. Sir Andrew Clark has called attention to the possible occurrence of death after the passage of an instru- ment in old men without any kidney or bladder trouble to account for it. 4. Where suppression of urine has been observed there has always been some pre-existing kidney mischief. 5. Pyaemia is rare, but has occasionally been noted. The treatment of organic stricture resolves itself into restoring the patency of the urethra by causing the ab- sorption and destruction of the inflammatory or cicatricial material producing the obstruction, and subsequently preventing recontraction. The methods employed for re- storing the patency of the urethra are : 1. Bloiv dilatation, 2. Rapid dilatation, 3. Forcible dilatation or splitting, 4. Division of the stricture from ivithin (internal urethro- tomy). 5. Division of the stricture from without (external urethrotomy). 6. Destruction of the stricture hy caustics. 7. Electrolysis. Treatment by caustics may be said to have now become obsolete, and will not be further re- ferred to. Of the other methods slow dilatation is no