TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW. 587 causes a swelling on the cheek, of the internal wall an obstruction in the nose, of the inferior wall a depression of the palate, and of the superior wall a protrusion of the eye. A rounded projection on the cheek ; a sensation of fluctuation felt through the anterior wall of the antrum-with thq finger in the mouth, or egg-shell-like crackling produced by the yielding of the thinned and partially absorbed walls; the presence of a carious tooth, or the absence of one of the teeth in the series, will point to the cystic nature of the swelling, and puncture with a trocar and cannula will clear up any doubt. Should the tumour be solid, it will probably be innocent if of slow growth and there be absence of pain and glandular enlargement, non-implication of the skin, and non-infiltration of surrounding parts; but malignant if of rapid growth and there is severe pain, early escape through the walls of the antrum, implication of the skin, inyolyement of glands, and protrusion of a fungous mass in the mouth, nose, or on the cheek. In malignant disease, moreover, the patient will probably be either young in the case of sarcoma, or advanced in life in the case of carcinoma, but if a small piece of the growth can be obtained, a microscopical examination will settle the point. When the growth springs from the malar bone, it may either project forwards on the cheek, or into the mouth between the cheek and the bone, and the bulging of the walls of the antrum will be absent. When it arises from the spheno-maxillary fossa or base of the skull, it will commonly project into the naso-pharynx, where it may be detected by the finger or rhinoscope, while the whole maxillary bone will be pushed forward. It should not be forgotten, however, that tumours beginning in the antrum, especially the fibrous and sarcomatous, encroach upon the surrounding parts, and conversely, that the cavity of the antrum may be invaded by growths not primarily connected with it; so that when tumours in this region have attained a large size it may be impossible to determine their origin, or, indeed, the whole of their actual attachments. Treatment.—For cystic tumours, excision of a portion of the wall from within the mouth will generally suflice, if a free drain is subsequently ensured. At times the thinned walls of the cyst may be crushed together by the fingers with advantage. Where the cyst is associated with a solid growth, the latter may sometimes be scraped