DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOTTLDER. 441 general and special signs of dislocation as above given, together with the absence of crepitus and other signs of fracture, will generally make the diagnosis easy; but where the patient is very muscular, or there is much swelling, or manipulation causes excessive pain, an anaesthetic should be given, and a thorough examination made. It should not be forgotten that crepitus may be simulated by effusion into the joint and sheaths of the surrounding tendons. True bony crepitus having been once felt, however, can hardly be mistaken for this. Treatment.—The difficulty in reducing a recent dis- location consists in 1. Overcoming muscular contraction; and 2. Ee-introducing the head of the bone through the hole in the capsule. In long-standing cases there are additional impediments to reduction, viz., 3. The forma- tion of adhesions around the joint. 4. Alteration in the shape of the head of the bone; and 5. The obliteration of the old cavity. Manipulation should first be tried, if necessary, under an anaesthetic, and if this fails, extension should be made with the knee or heel in the axilla, and finally with the pulleys. In some long-standing cases where the above methods have failed reduction by open incision may be justifiable. 1. Manipulation.—Many methods have been devised, some of which are not un- attended with danger, as the axillary artery has been torn or ruptured in their use. The following method is now generally employed at St. Bartholomew's, and has been attended with excellent success. Place the patient in the horizontal position; flex the elbow; rotate the humerus outwards as far as possible without using exces- sive force, then carry the elbow across the chest, at the same time rotating the humerus inwards. Another method consists in slowly abducting the arm to the level of the shoulder or above. 2. Extension (Fig. 130).—Place the patient on his back; seat yourself on the edge of the couch; draw the arm slightly from the side; place your heel without your boot well in the axilla, and grasping the wrist, make steady extension on the arm, whilst the heel fixes the scapula and presses the head of the bone outwards. The head of the bone will probably be felt after a few minutes to slip into its place with an audible snap. Should it not do so, secure a jack towel with a clove-hitch (Fig. 131) to the arm, and increase the ex- tending force by getting an assistant to pull on it with you at the same time. The direction of the force