750 DISEASES OE REGIONS. up to twelve or fourteen years of age, lithotomy has hitherto been the recognized operation ; but I believe that when the brilliant results obtained by Surgeon-Major Keegan and others come to be better known, that even in very young children, lithotrity, as in adults, will also be the rule, lithotomy the exception. I have myself crushed six or seven stones in young male children, some as young as three years, and successful cases are now being fre- quently reported. In adults, lithotomy should be practised in place of lithotrity, when 1, the stone is very large and hard; 2, when the urethra is the seat of intractable stricture ; 3, when the stone is encysted; and, 4, when the bladder is sacculated. A large stone, if soft, should be crushed; and a hard stone, if not too large, is no bar to the operation. Surgeon-Major Keegan has crushed a uric acid stone, the fragments of which weighed two ounces and three quarters, and an oxalate of lime which weighed one ounce and three drachms. And in a boy, aged thirteen, I crashed and successfully removed a very hard stone weighing only a few grains less than an ounce. Hard stones, however, weighing above an ounce, and especially in boys, had better be removed by cutting, unless the Surgeon is experienced in lithotrity. Cystitis and kidney disease render the prognosis of both operations unfavourable; but in these affections it does not appear that crushing with complete removal of the fragments is attended with more risk than is lithotomy. A large prostate renders lithotrity difficult no doubt, but does not, as a rule, contra-indicate it. Stricture of the urethra is only an impediment to lithority when the stricture cannot be dilated. The conditions, however, most favour- able for success in lithotrity are, as well expressed by Sir Henry Thompson, '' a capacious urethra, a bladder capable of retaining three or four ounces of urine, absence of ordinary signs of renal disease, and fair general health." Lithotrity, Litholapaxy, or Bigelow's operatioi^ consists in crushing the stone in the bladder, and removing the whole of the fragments through a large evacuating catheter. .Formerly, it was taught that the presence of the lithotrite in the bladder for more than a few minutes at a time was productive of great irritation, and it was consequently advised that the crushing of the stone should be extended over several sittings of only a few minutes each, and the fragments allowed to be jDassed by