70 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. TUMOURS. A TUMOUR, as generally understood, is a swelling in some part of the body not depending upon inflammation or mere hypertrophy of pre-existing tissue, and showing no tendency to undergo spontaneous cure or to yield to the action of medicines. In structure a tumour consists of elements resembling those of the normal tissues of the body either in the mature or in the immature state. Thus a tumour may be composed of bone, cartilage, fat, &c.; or of cells like those constituting the epithelium; or of elements indistinguishable from the rudimentary tissues found in the embryo. A tumour may resemble and con- tinue to grow in the tissue in which it originates, merely displacing the surrounding tissues, as for example, a fatty tumour growing in the subcutaneous fat. It is then called homologous. Or a tumour may originate in one tissue, and retaining the type of that tissue, invade another, as an epithelioma infiltrating connective tissue, muscle, or bone; it is then spoken of as heterologous. Homologous tumours have generally the structure of the mature tissues of the body, as fibrous tissue, fat, bone, &c., and are usually innocent. Heterologous tumours, on the other hand, commonly consist of cells like those of the more lowly organized or immature tissues {epithe- lium, emhryonic tissue), and are generally malignant. The lower the organization of a tumour the greater, as a rule, is its malignancy, although, as pointed out by Mr. Butlin, '' tumours of similar structure differ widely in their power of mischief according to the part of the body in which they originate." Development.—All tumours are believed to arise by the multiplication of pre-existing cells, and to retain through- out their growth the type of the cell from which they spring ; hence they are spoken of as connective-tissue or as epithelial growths, according as they originate in the connective tissue or in the epithelium. Tumours arising in the connective tissue at first consist entirely of small round cells, with a scanty amount of intercellular sub- stance ; that is, they resemble embryonic connective tissue. They may retain this structure throughout their course (sarcoma), or they may become more highly de- veloped and assume the structure of the more specialized connective tissues. Thus, fibrification may occur and the tumour take the form of mature fibrous tissue [fibroma);