INJURIES OF JOINTS—DISLOCATIONS. 193 ligaments, tlie formation of fibrous adhesions in and around the joint, and the glueing of the surrounding tendons to their sheaths, a strain may be followed by long-continued pain, stiffness, weakness and even fibrous ankylosis of the joint. At times in strumous subjects a sprain may be the starting-point of destructive joint- disease. Treatment.—The indications are to place the joint at perfect rest till the torn ligaments have had time to heal; to prevent or subdue inflammation ; and, should stiffness or ankylosis have ensued, to restore the mobility of the joint by breaking down any adhesions that may have formed. Thus, if seen at once, a plaster-of-Paris or a Martin's bandage should be put on; or if much swelling has already occurred, the parts should be placed on a splint, or in a sling, and either cold in the form of lead- lotion or ice, or heat in the form of hot fomentations applied. Eor very slight cases, however, a few days' rest, with the part supported by a wet bandage, followed by the use of a stimulating liniment, is all that is usually necessary. The joint in any case should not be kept too long at rest lest stiffness ensue; but as soon as all signs of inflammation have disappeared, passive movements should at once be begun. If stiffness or fibrous ankylosis has already occurred, friction, shampooing, and massage may be tried; or the joint may be forcibly wrenched under an ansesthetic, provided all signs of active inflam- mation have ceased. Dislocations.—A dislocation is the forcible separation of the articular end of a bone from the part with which it is naturally in contact. Varieties,—Dislocations may be divided into the Con^ genital and the Acquired ; the latter again into the Spon- taneous and the Traumatic, The Spontaneous are those that occur as the result of disease of the joints, and are treated of elsewhere (see Diseases of Joints), The Traumatic, or accidental dislocations, with which we are here specially concerned, are spoken of as compound or simple according as they are, or are not, complicated with an external wound leading into the joint; and in either case as complete or partial according as the articular surfaces are, or are not, completely separated from each other. The causes of dislocation are predisposing and exciting. The predisposing causes may be enumerated as :—^1, weak- w. o