666 DISEASES OF EEGIOIS'S. the fingers piece by piece till tlie obstruction is discovered. If after a search of some twenty minutes the obstruction is not found, enlarge the wound and allow the intestines to prolapse, keeping them warm by the continual applica- tion of aseptic gauze wrung out of hot water. When the intestines are much distended Mr. Grreig Smith advises that the distended loop should be drawn into the wound, opened and drained, the Surgeon waiting for hours at the bedside if necessary till the distension is relieved. After this he treats the case as circumstances suggest. (a) If a loop of intestine is found strangulated in one of the hernial rings, or in a hole in the mesentery, it must be released from within the abdomen, dividing any stricture if necessary. (&) If a volvulus is discovered an attempt must be made to untwist it, and as a prophy- lactic against retwisting, the mesentery may be shortened by folding it upon itself parallel to the intestine and fix- ing with sutures. If the volvulus cannot be reduced, the contents may be let out, the wound sutured and another attempt made. This failing, the volvulus may be excised and the intestine restored by circular enterorrhaphy or lateral approximation with bone plates. If the patient is too collapsed to admit of excision, the volvulus may be left and the intestine short-circuited by means of Semi's plates. If gangrene has occurred, the volvulus must be excised and circular enterorrhaphy or lateral approxima- tion with bone plates performed, (c) If a band is met with it must be divided, {d) If a large diverticulum is the cause of the obstruction it must be cut across and the bowel end united by Lembert's suture, (e) If a small diverticulum is producing the constriction it must be severed and the two ends ligatured. Should the intes- tine give way in dividing the obstructing band,' &c., or have already given way—if the perforation is small and the coats are in a fairly healthy condition, the wound in the intestine may be closed by sutures in the way described under wounds of the intestine. But if the coats are in an inflamed or sloughy condition or gangrenous, the diseased portion may be excised, and the upper and lower portions of the intestine united by circular enteror- rhaphy or by Senn's method of lateral approximation by bone plates. Only when the patient is much collapsed should the ends of the bowel be fixed to the external wound and an artificial anus made. Before uniting the intestine however it may be well in some cases to fix the