DISEASES OF KEGIOIS'S. 514 of mercury (1 in 1000), or chlorinated lime (gr. ij. ad fjj.)? or hyposulphite of soda (gr. iv. ad t^j.), and, when the meatus is thoroughly freed from the flakes, instilling alcohol. AuEAL EXOSTOSES may roughly be divided into the spongy and the ivory. (a) The Spongy are single and generally pedunculated, are most commonly found at the junction of the cartila- ginous and bony meatus, are rapid in growth, follow suppuration of the middle ear, and are frequently the result of ossification of granulations. Treatment,—They can generally be removed by seizing them with a pair of forceps and breaking them off. (5.) The Ivory exostoses or rather hyperostoses may be single, but are more often multiple. They vary from ridge-like elevations to rounded tumours with broad bases; they are found near the orifice of the meatus, more or less blocking up the canal, and grow slowly. Syphilis, gout, irritation of the meatus, and sea-bathing are said to be the exciting causes. Treatment.—They should not be interfered with unless they cause deafness by completely closing the meatus, except in those rare cases where they, are asso- ciated with discharge. In such cases as they greatly lessen the lumen of the canal they should be removed to avoid the risk of pent-up matter. When their removal is necessary, this should be done by means of a chisel and hammer, or the dental drill. III. Diseases oe the middle eab :—Acute cataeeh may be started by any condition which produces acute naso-pharyngeal catarrh, such as a severe cold, the exanthemata, &c. It may also be caused by sea-bathing, or by the use of the nasal douche. Symptoms.—The attack begins with a feeling of fulness in the head, followed by pain, which varies in character from a dull aching to a severe throbbing or stabbing; there is more or less deafness and sometimes tinnitus, and even giddiness, and in severe cases febrile disturbance. On examination, the membrane shows at first but little change beyond a slight loss of lustre, and the presence of a fine streak of red along the posterior edge of the malleus-handle. In severe cases, the posterior segment of the membrane and the adjacent meatus are red, and this redness may spread over the entire membrane till the outline of the malleus- handle is lost. Vesicles and even small abscesses may form on its surface. Later the epidermis is loosened in