511 ECZEMA—HEMATOMA AURIS. by means of the watch, and voice, and finally examine the nares and pharynx in cases where there is reason for sus- pecting that an unhealthy condition of these parts may be the exciting cause of the ear-mischief. I. Diseases oe the External Ear. The auricle is liable to attack from various diseases, but it will only be necessary here to notice two : Eczema and Hsematoma. Eczema may be acute or chronic; primary, or secondary to eczema of the head. In the acute form there is great redness and swelling of the auricle; it is hot, tense, and tender, and later a crop of vesicles appear which exude a serous fluid soon drying into crusts; these, when they fall off, leave a raw surface. Acute eczema rarely invades the meatus. The chronic variety may attack the whole auricle ; more frequently it is limited to some part of it. There is little or no redness, the surface is dry and scurfy, and fissured in places, and the disease generally spreads into the meatus, and some- times even to the drum-membrane. In such cases there is more or less deafness, accompanied, it may be, by tinnitus, and a stuffy feeling in the ear. Treatment.—In the acute stage apply lead and opium lotion, or powdered zinc and starch in equal parts; later, useful applications are linimentum calcis, or ung. hydrarg. subchlor. (53. ad 5jO' parts continue red and swollen, paint them with argenti nitratis (5SS. ad aq. f^j-)' ^^^^ then apply powdered boracic acid, or ung. hydrarg. oxidi. rub. (gr. ij. ad §3.). Applications to the meatus must be applied with a small brush; the parts should be washed with oatmeal instead of soap. Constitutional treatment must not be neglected. HEMATOMA Aimis may occur spontaneously or as the result of an injury, and is not uncommon among the insane. It consists of an effusion of blood between the cartilage and perichondrium on the anterior surface of the auricle. It occurs as a hard and rarely fluctuating swelling, varying greatly in size. The skin over it is of a more or less livid hue, but occasionally is hardly discoloured. There is a feeling of warmth or tingling, but rarely of pain. After a time it gradually becomes smaller and may entirely disappear. Sometimes it sup- purates. In the end the auricle is left more or less deformed. Treatment.—At first the application of ice or cooling lotions; some recommend tapping it and in- jecting iodine; others laying it open and dressing with