646 DISEASES OE REGIONS. absjlute recumbency ; and 2, by the use of some form of spinal support. 1. Ahsolute recumbency from six to twelve months in the supine or prone position on a properly constructed couch is the best method of treatment where the patient can be properly cared for, has airy apartments, can be taken out in this position in an invalid carriage, and can reside in the country or at the seaside. Especially is this treatment the best when the disease is situated high up in the spine, i.e., in the upper dorsal or cervical region, and it is imperatively neces- sary where there is paralysis. To en- sure absolute recumbency I have lately largely employed a double Thomas's splint (Fig, 247), modified by the addition of a pelvic band, a support for the shoulders, neck and head, and two sliding foot-pieces. The two up- right bars, which are prolonged to the head support, are made after the shape of a normally formed child when in the recumbent position, and give sup- port to both sides of the spine. Two cross-bars support the body, just below the axillse and pelvis respectively; the legs are kept in position by the ordi- nary circlets and foot-pieces. The splint is placed next the skin so as not to require removal while the child is washed, dressed, &c. It not only fixes the spine and takes off the weight of the head and upper limbs, but Fig. 247.—Double also fixes the lower limbs, and thus Thomas's spUnt prevents the psoas muscles from for spii^al caries. dragging on the spine. Absolute recumbency, when properly carried out, offers the best prospect of averting serious angular deformity and paralysis; as soon, however, as the acute symptoms quiet down some form of spinal support should be applied, and the patient cautiously allowed to take a certain amount of exercise. But amongst the poor, where the children are often left to themselves during the greater part of the day, absolute recumbency can seldom be ensured; and if it could, its advantage over other methods would be counterbalanced by the severe detriment to the health which the child would suffer in consequence of confinement to an ill-ventilated