337 DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS* further absorption of tlie septic products. It may termi- nate in resolution, or in suppuration in and around the glands, or more rarely around the lymphatics themselves. Sometimes the septic products appear to escape the gland, and general blood-poisoning ensues. Symptoms.—In severe cases, lymphangitis generally begins with a chill or rigor, followed by high temperature and fever, and perhaps vomiting and diarrhoea. Eed lines, when the superficial lymphatics are affected, are seen running from the wound to the nearest lymphatic glands, with here and there erysipelatous-like patches of redness. There is generally pain and tenderness, especially in the region of the swollen glands, and swelling and oedema, sometimes of the whole limb. It may be diagnosed from phlebitis by the redness being superficial and in the course of the lymphatics, not in the course of the veins ; by the absence of the cord-like and knotty feel of plugged veins, and by the presence of glandular enlargement; from erysipe- las by the redness having no defined margin, and gene- rally running in lines. The treatment consists in attending to any wound or abrasion, allaying other sources of irri- tation that may be present, and placing the inflamed part at rest in an elevated position. Hot fomentations or poultices, or glycerine and belladonna may be applied, and abscesses should be opened as soon as they form. If any swelling is left, pressure in the form of Scott's dressing or ammoniacum and mercury plaster may be used to disperse it. Lymphatic yarix oe, Lymphangiectasis is very rare. It is attended by a condition of elephantiasis of the parts where the lymphatics are blocked. When the superficial vessels are a:ffected, '' the varix first appears in the form of small elevations, giving the skin an appearance which has been compared to the rind of an orange. It subse- quently takes the form of little vesicles, covered with a thin layer of dermis." (Erichsen.) At times the dilated lymphatics form distinct tumours (Lymphangiomata)» Treatment,-Slight elastic pressure, and protection from injury or irritation. Lymphatic fistula or Lymphorrhcea, though ex- ceedingly rare, is a condition sometimes met with, and more especially in the groin, scrotum, or labium. It is said to be due to a wound of a lymphatic, or to the giving way of a varicose lymphatic, but the cause is not clearly understood.