FEACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 483 wards. The outward rotation would appear to depend in part on the direction of the line of fracture; and in part on the weight of the limb, which has a natural tendency to roll outwards. Method of union. — In consequence partly of the feeble blood supply of the upper fragment, and partly of the fragments not being in apposition, bony union seldom occurs, the parts becoming bound together by fibrous tissue or remaining ununited. In the latter case the fragments become rounded and polished, forming a false joint; whilst, owing to the absorption of the lower fragment, great shorteDing of the neck usually ensues. Signs.—Slight shortening—about three-quarters of an inch—eyersion, inabiHty to raise the limb from the hori- zontal position, approximation of the great trochanter to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, rotation of the great trochanter through a smaller arc than on the oppo- site side, and crepitus, are the usual signs. Occasionally there may be no shortening at first, and patients have been known to walk after the injury. In rare instances there has been inversion instead of eversion, a fact not easy of explanation. In the impacted form there is no crepitus, the shortening is less, and does not disappear on extension, and the patient may be able to raise the limb from the horizontal position, and perhaps stand or walk on it. Diagnosis.—The age of the patient, the very slight shortening, the absence of bruising about the trochanter, the slightness of the violence occasioning it, and the ever- sion of the limb are the chief signs which point to intra- capsular fracture ; but it may have to be diagnosed from the extracapsular form, from dislocation of the hip, from dislocation with fracture of the acetabulum, from chronic osteo-arthritis, and from mere contusion of the hip. In the extracapsular form the shortening is greater, the patient usually younger, the occasioning violence direct and more severe, and there is often bruising and ecchymosis of the skin and widening of the trochanter. In dislocation there is loss of mobility of the limb, and the head of the bone can be felt in the abnormal position. The only common dislocation with which the ordinary form of fracture could be confounded is the pubic, as in this alone is there any eversion; but here the distinct prominence formed by the head of the bone on the pubes at once serves to distinguish it. In fracture of the acetabulum with dislocation there is, in addition to crepitus, the pre- sence of the head of the bone in an abnormal situation, I I 2