II^JTJRIES OE BEGIOlSrS. 496 the internal lateral ligament is ruptured, or the end of the internal malleolus is torn off. The foot, at the same time that it is displaced outwards, is also drawn hackwards by the tendo Achillis. In the fracture with inward dislo- cation (which is rare), the articular surface of the external malleolus usually follows the astragalus, and the upper end of the lower fragment of the fibula in consequence projects outwards. Signs.—In fracture of both bones the signs are usually unmistakable, especially when the fracture is oblique and in the lower third of the leg. "When the tibia or fibula alone is fractured the diagnosis is often very difficult. In the tibia some irregularity may be felt on running the finger along the shin, and crepitus may perhaps be elicited. In the fibula, frac- ture of the lower third may be detected by running the finger along the subcutaneous surface of the bone just above the ex- ternal malleous; but if the case is not seen till swelling from effusion has set in, it may be quite impossible to say whether we are dealing with a fracture or a sprain. If in doubt the xxu. j.,^. iuuofs xjc^u- case should be treated as a ture. (St. Bartholomew's fracture. In the upper two- Hospital Museum.) thiids, where the bone is co- vered with muscles, and cannot be felt, the following tests for fracture may be applied. 1. Move the foot laterally, and crepitus will probably be elicited if there is a fracture. 2. Press the tibia and fibula together just above the ankle by grasping them with the hand. In fracture, pain v/ill be felt at the fractured spot, not at the situation where grasped. 3. Grasp the tibia and fibula with the hands just below the knee and above the ankle. If there is a fracture the natural springiness of the fibula will be lost, and crepitus may perhaps be detected. In Fotfs fracture (Fig. 172), the foot is twisted outwards, so that whilst the inner edge is towards the ground the sole is directed outwards. There is a well-marked depression over the seat of fracture, the