566 DISEASES OE REGIONS. the tongue forwards tlie symptoms will at once cease; but a ligature should be passed through its tip and secured to the cheek, with instructions to again draw the tongue forwards with the ligature, should the symptoms recur. NoN-DiEEERENTiATiON of the tongue from the sur- rounding tissues gives rise to the rare malformation in which the tongue appears bound down to the floor of the mouth. This condition must not be mistaken for that called ankyloglossia, in which the tongue, in consequence of cicatricial adhesions, presents a similar appearance. Division of the adhesions in the latter case will do much to remedy the affection. Macroglossia, or hypertrophy of the tongue may be congenital or acquired. In either case it is rare. Signs,—The whole tongue is uniformly enlarged, and sometimes so much so that it presses forwards the alveolar process of the lower jaw with the incisor teeth, and pro- trudes from the mouth, hanging downwards as low as the chin. When thus exposed the mucous membrane becomes cracked, spongy, and bluish.-red, and is subject to repeated attacks of subacute glossitis. Pathology,—- The affection appears to be due to a blocking of the lymphatics at the base of the tongue; at any rate the lymphatics are found enlarged and distended with lymph, and the connective tissue is increased in amount and infiltrated with lymphoid corpuscles. It appears related, therefore, with elephantiasis — a condition sometimes found CO-existing in the neck and other parts of the body. The only treatment of much avail is excision of part of the organ. The removal of a Y-shaped piece has been attended with excellent results. It should be done before the teeth and jaw have been deformed by the pressure. Acute parenchymatous glossitis, or deep inflam- mation of the tongue may be due to mercury, fever, iodism, injury, carious teeth, stings of insects, abscess beneath the jaw; sometimes there is no apparent cause. Signs.—In severe cases the whole tongue is swollen, and protrudes from the mouth, interfering with speech and deglutition, and sometimes threatening suffocation. It frequently ends in abscess. It is often attended with high fever and salivation, and may be quite sudden in its onset. Treatment.—Should the milder means applicable to acute inflammations fail, free longitudinal incisions,