786 t)ISEASES 01^ REGIOKS. tures, however, Wheelhouse's operation is more generally performed. Electrolysis lias recently been advocated for stricture, and several successful* cases in this country have been re- ported by the late Dr. Steavenson and Mr. Bruce Clarke. It consists in passing a catheter-electrode down to the face of the stricture, connecting it with the battery, and applying the other electrode to some other part of the body. It is believed to act by causing some chemical change in the cicatricial tissue, thus leading to its absorption. It has been employed for stricture where an instrument after persistent attempts cannot be passed, and as a substitute in some cases for dilatation. Sufficient time has not elapsed to judge of the results that may be expected from this method of treatment. It is certainly not unattended with danger—extravasation of urine and even death having followed its employment. Urethral or URiisrARY abscesses may occur at any part of the urethra, but the most common situation is in the perineum. Cause.—They are most often formed in connection with stricture, and are then due to ulceration and local extravasation of urine behind the seat of ob- struction. They may also result from injury inflicted either from without or from within, as passing an instru- ment along the urethra, or the impaction of a calculus; or they may occur during an attack of gonorrhoea from inflammation extending to one of the urethral follicles; or to Cowper's glands. The signs of a urethral abscess in the perineum, its most cominon situation, are the presence of a hard, brawny, deeply-seated swelling, generally beginning in the middle line just in front of the anus, and as it increases in size, making its way to one or other side of the perineum in the direction of the groin. At first, while the pus is bound down by the deep fascia, there is no fluctuation, and it is only as it approaches the surface that this sign of abscess can be detected. The abscess is attended with throbbing pain, often with sharp constitu- tional disturbance, and occasionally with a rigor; it may also cause retention of urine. Treatment.—Fluctuation must not be waited for, but a catheter passed down the urethra, and a free incision made in the median line of the perineum into the swelling. If the abscess is not opened, it may break externally on the perineum, or it may burrow amongst the tissues and break into the rec- tum ; and if not already in connection with the urethra,