DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 336 for a week, may effect a cure by causing adhesive inflam- mation. This method is sometimes useful where others are inapplicable. 5. Electrolysis is indicated when it is important to save the skin and reduce the scar to a minimum, as in venous neevi about the face. It consists in passing two or more needles into the neevus in different situations, and sending a weak constant current through them; or better, passing needles connected only with the positive 23ole of the battery into the nsevus, and rubbing a rheo- phore connected with the negative pole over the skin of some other part of the body. Should bubbles of gas escape the current must be reduced in strength. Before removing the needles from the nsevus the current should be reversed for a few seconds in order that the salts of iron may be formed around the needles, and so prevent bleeding from the punctures. The operation must be repeated many times, as if too strong a current is used sloughing will take place. Arterial varix, or a dilated, tortuous and irregularly pouched condition of an artery similar to that of a vein in varix, cirsoid aneurysm, or a pulsating tumour com- posed of several lengthened, dilated and pouched arteries, and nearly always situated on the scalp, and aneurysm BY ANASTOMOSIS, or a localized dilatation of arteries, veins, and capillaries,—are all too rare to require descrip- tion here. diseases oe the lymphatics. Lymphangitis or inflammation of the lymphatic vessels is generally associated with more or less inflammation of the lymphatic glands. Causes—ThQ most common cause is the absorption of septic or of infective products from a wound, which, however, is often very trivial, such as a simple scratch, abrasion, sting, or puncture; more rarely, the inflammation may follow upon mere irritation of the skin, as a chafe of the heel, excessive friction, or sun-burn. Pathology,—The walls of the lymphatics be- come infiltrated with cells, swollen, and softened, whilst the endothelium is shed, and the lymph contained in the vessels often undergoes coagulation. The inflammation spreads to the surrounding tissue, but seldom higher in the course of the lymphatics than the first set of glands, which also become swollen and infiltrated and arrest the