833 ABSCESS OF THE BREAST. Sometimes attended with a serous" or milky discharge from the nipple, and is often made worse by ignorant nurses applying friction to " rub away the milk." At or ahqut puberty it is met with in boys as well as in girls, but more frequently in the latter. Often beyond the patient appearing somewhat out of health no cause can be dis- covered, although in hospital patients a history of a blow is not uncommon. The inflammation may clear up, or terminate in an abscess. Acute inflammation, however, most frequently occurs during lactation, especially in primiparse, and generally during the first month after parturition. It then appears to be most often due to the irritation of the nipple by the child sucking, particularly when the nipple is shrunken or retracted, or is in a cracked condition. Occasionally it is the result of excessive secretion of the milk, and con- sequent hypersesthesia of the ducts ; or it may not appear till later during the period of lactation when the patient's powers have been pulled down by long suckling. Symptoms.—A feeling of uneasiness in the breast, then a chill or slight rigor, followed by fever and the local signs of inflammation and often subsequently of abscess* Treatment.—The breast should be placed at perfect rest by slinging it in a handkerchief passed over the shoulder j and by taking away the infant from the sound as well as from the affected side; the milk, if the tension is great, should be drawn off regularly by the breast-pump; and belladonna and glycerine applied to diminish the secretion, and opium or poppy fomentations to relieve pain. Signs of abscess must be watched for and an early incision made. A smart saline purge, followed by saline laxatives and a light nutritious slop diet, is usually necessary. Abscess of the breast may occur in three situations : '—1. Superficiahto the gland (si(j9m-mammar?/a&scess); 2. In the substance of the gland [intra-mammary abscess); and 3. Behind the gland (pos^-mammar?/ abscess). 1. The supra-mammary variety resembles an abscess in any other situation and requires no further comment. 2. The intra-mammary, which is generally the result of in- flammation occurring during lactation, may be confined to one part of the gland ; or pus may be formed in several situations at the same time, and if not let out by timely incisions may riddle the breast in all directions. 3. In the post-mammary the inflammation begins either in the cellular tissue behind the breast, or in the posterior lobes w. 3 H