135 SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. (3.) S^COTOARY HEMORRHAGE is that whioh occurs after the period of reaction has passed in consequence of the failure of the process for the permanent arrest of haemorrhage.. ^ ^15Wse7^Secondary hsemorrhage is due either to the defective formation of the internal clot, or to the failure of union of the internal and middle coats. Either of these, again, may be (a) the result of some fault in the surgical means taken to arrest the primary haemorrhage, and then in some measure may be said to be preventable; or {b) the result of some disease of the vessel or consti- tutional state of the patient, and then may usually be regarded as non-preventable. These causes may be con-* sidered under the following heads :— X. Defect in the ligature or in its applicatio7i.—^{a) An improperly prepared animal ligature may become ab- sorbed too soon, (^) A non-absorbable ligature, if chosen, may be too thick or tape-like, and hence not divide or unevenly divide the internal and middle coats, (c) The ligature may not be aseptic, and so cause suppurative instead of adhesive inflammation, {d) The ligature, what^ ever kind is used, may be tied too tightly or too loosely, or be unevenly knotted, (e) The sheath in applying the ligature may be too freely separated from the artery, or the artery bruised during the separati6n of the sheath, (/) The ligature may be placed too near a collateral branch. 2. Defect in the management of the toound.—-The tissues may be roughly handled and bruised, or the wouud may be imperfectly drained and the discharges allowed to become septic or infected by pathogenic organisms, so that, in either case, septic inflammation and suppuration may be set up and spread to thej^ess^an^ its^o^ained clot. 3. Disease of the vessel-walls.—Under this head may be mentioned atheroma, calcareous degeneration, and syphilitic and tubercular disease, all of which may either allow the ligature to cut its way too quickly through the diseased coats, or prevent the adhesion of the internal and middle coats and the other changes that should occur in the normal process of healing. 4. Constitutional conditions,-^These are such as render the blood less coagulable than usual, or are associated with an increase of the blood-pressure or an excited action pf the heart. Anioi^gst sT;ch conditions may be mentioned