15 IKFLAMMATIO]^. tlie result of a mecliaiiical injury, and may be studied in its simplest form in the healing of an incised wound by the first intention (see Wounds), Should suppuration occur it is now generally held to be due to the presence of certain pyogenic micro-organisms (see Suppuration, p. 22). Septic inflammation depends upon the presence of fer- mentation or putrefaction in a wound or serous cavity; it spreads beyond the original seat of injury, and is accompanied by constitutional symptoms of blood- poisoning {septic feveVy saprcemia). The septic products soak into the tissues, where they act like other chemical irritants, and so set up wider and wider circles of in- flammation, and entering the general blood-stream with the serum which is drained away by the lymphatics, give rise to septic poisoning. They do not multiply in the living tissues, like the micro-organisms producing the infective inflammation to be next described. Hence as soon as the fermentation or putrefaction can be checked the spreading of the inflammation and septic poisoning have a tendency to cease. Septic inflammation is often accompanied by suppuration, but this is regarded as a complication depending on the presence of pyogenic micro-organisms (see Suppuration). Some pathologists include under the term septic all inflammations attended by suppuration and the various specific inflammations, as erysipelas, which are here called infective. The infective variety is also of a spreading character, and depends upon the presence of specific micro- organisms {pathogenic bacteria). Unlike the products of putrefaction these micro-organisms multiply and thrive in the living tissues and in the blood stream. They may also under certain circumstances become lodged in the lymphatic glands and in the capillaries of distant organs and tissues, where they give rise to inflammations similar to that at the seat of primary inoculation. Like the septic, the infective inflammations are generally accom- panied by severe constitutional symptoms. The micro- organisms may enter, it is thought, either through a wound, or through the respiratory or alimentary tracts ; and, though not essential, a septic wound favours their admission. (See Infective processes in wounds.) Inflammation also admits of other divisions; thus it is variously spoken of as traumatic, idiopathic, strumous, syphilitic, gouty, &c., according to its supposed cause; as