0 FEACTUEE OF THE CAETILAGES OF THE LAEYNX. 387 accident, but may be caused by any violence applied to the neck. It is attended by emphysema and dyspnoea, and is usually rapidly fatal. An incision should be made in the middle line of the neck and an attempt made to draw the lower end of the trachea to the surface, and to pass in a tracheotomy tube. FeACTUEE and dislocation of THE HYOID BONE.— Fracture may be produced by any violence applied to the neck, especially a severe grip. The line of fracture is usually about the junction of the greater cornu with the body, but may occur in any situation. The usual signs are pain, increased on handling, on turning the head, and on moving the tongue; dysphagia or inability to swallow; hoarseness or aphonia; a sense of suffocation on pro- truding the tongue; mobility of the fragments and crepitus; sometimes cough and dyspnoea; and haemo- ptysis when there is laceration of the mucous membrane. Treatment.—The fragments should be replaced by the finger passed through the mouth, whilst the fingers of the other hand manipulate the bone externally, a gag and chloroform being usually necessary. The parts must then be kept perfectly quiet, and the patient fed on slops passed well to the back of the tongue. What has been described as dislocation of the hyoid bone appears rather to be a condition of the parts due to relaxation of the ligaments attaching the thyroid carti- lage to the hyoid bone. FeACTUEE of the CAETILAGES OF THE LAEYNX.— The fracture may extend through either the thyroid or the cricoid cartilages, or through both. The thyroid , alone is most usually fractured. Cause,—Direct violence j applied to the part, such as a blow or fall, or com- pression with the hand, as in garotting. The usual signs i are pain, increased on speaking, on swallowing, and on handling; dyspnoea; cough; expectoration of frothy blood, and later, when inflammation has come on, of offensive pus ; emphysema when the mucous membrane 1 is injured; great swelling and ecchymosis; and on ex- I amination, irregularity, undue prominence or flattening of the cartilages, crepitus, and preternatural mobility. The danger to be apprehended is obstruction to the respiration in consequence of — 1, displacement of a i portion of cartilage across the larynx ; 2, spasm of the : glottis from irritation of the fragments; 3, entrance of blood into the air-passages; 4, swelling from submucous c c 2