GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF mJURIES. 108 continuance of inflammation and hence of the non-healing of the wound, but is also liable to undergo decomposition and putrefaction, and forms a suitable nidus for the growth of pyogenic micro-organisms. Now the coagul- able exudation, being living tissue, resists the agents which determine putrefaction. Not so the serum. In this we have a fluid containing dead animal matter, and as the other conditions favourable for decomposition are also present, viz., a temperature of about 100°, and a sufficient supply of water and oxygen, the addition of a ferment only is required to set it up. If decomposition or fermentation then is suffered to take place through not keeping the wound aseptic, or the pyogenic micrococci are allowed to enter, the freshly divided tissues, not as yet sealed by traumatic inflammation, allow the products of decomposition or of the micrococci to soak into the tissues around, setting up locally a septic or spreading inflammation, whereby the coagulable exudation, tem- porarily holding the surfaces of the wound in apposition, is destroyed, and healing hy the first intention is further prevented. In the meantime the products of decomposi- tion may pass into the blood, and give rise to the consti- tutional state known as septic traumatic fever, or if the dose of the poison is large, to saprsemia or septic intoxi- cation ; and this is the more likely to occur if the wound has been closed, so that the decomposing serum is pent up under some degree of tension. If therefore the wound is very large, and deep or lacerated or irregular, a drainage tube or tubes should be placed in it, and brought out at the most dependent part, the incisions, if the wound is made in an operation, being so planned as to allow as much as possible of a dependent drain. For smaller wounds it may be sufficient to place in them a leash of horse-hair or of catgut, a piece of gutta-percha tissue, or a strand or two of pewter wire. The drain-tube if kept in too long will act as a foreign body, set up inflam- mation, and give rise to a suppurating sinus along its track. It should therefore be withdrawn as soon as the serum ceases to be squeezed out from the coagulating material—?'.e., from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, according to the size of the wound. In large and deep wounds it is better not to remove the tube all at once, as the superficial part of the wound may then heal, and the discharge or pus collect in the deeper part; but to shorten it gradually, allowing the wound to soundly heal as it is