INJURIES OF REGIONS. 400 sores, and the occurrence of chronic cystitis and its attendant evils. Thus the patient should be placed upon a water bed, and his posture gently changed from time to time, so that pressure may not be continuously made on one part, while he must be kept scrupulously clean and dry, and free from urine and faeces. The bowels should be cleared, if necessary, by enemata, or excessive diarrhoea controlled by morphia suppositories or starch and opium injections. Should bedsores threaten, the skin should be hardened by sponging with rectified spirit, and dusted with oxide of zinc and starch powder. If formed, they should be dressed with mild antiseptics, iodoform, balsam of Peru, &c., and all pressure removed from the surrounding skin by the use of water cushions. To prevent cystitis from occurring a soft rubber catheter, thoroughly cleansed in carbolic acid and dipped in car- bolic oil, should be passed twice daily. Should the urine become alkaline the bladder must be washed out with some antiseptic solution. Extension and trephining of the spine.—In cases where, from the marked inequality of the spinous process there is a probability of fragments pressing upon the cord, a cautious attempt to extend the spine and reduce the displaced vertebrae may be made, and a plaster-of-Paris case applied during the extension. In some instances it may be justifiable to trephine the spine {laminectomy) for the purpose of removing a frag- ment or extravasated blood ; but space will not permit of the discussion of this interesting question. Concussion oe the spinal coed.—This term has been applied to various injuries of the cord received in railway and other accidents. It ought, however, to be restricted to those cases in which the cord is merely con- cussed or shaken; and the other injuries, such as haemor- rhage into its substance or into the arachnoid, contusions, and lacerations, all of which have been included under the term concussion, described as spinal haemorrhage, lacera- tion^ of the spinal cord, &c. Concussion in this sense is one of the rarest of injuries, and need not detain us in a work of this character. For an account of the other lesions, and the very various, apparently anomalous, and, as yet, far from understood symptoms which may attend them, and which are generally classed together under the term of the railway spine," a larger work must be consulted.