INJURIES OF THE PLEURA AND LUNG. 403 that pass through the parietes into the pleura, peri- cardium, or mediastinum, and may be complicated by a wound of the lung, the heart, a large blood-vessel, an intercostal artery, or the internal mammary artery. When the wound is small, and there are no signs of injury to the thoracic viscera, it is not always possible to determine whether it has penetrated the chest-wall; although the direction and situation of the wound, and an account of the way in which it was inflicted, may point to its having done so. Under these circumstances, the wound should on no account be probed, but the patient treated as if the wound had penetrated, and watched for signs of inflammatory complications. The symptoms and treatment will depend upon the viscus wounded. (See Wounds of Thoracic Viscera.) ' Injuries of the contents of the Chest, These may be divided into injuries of the—1, pleura and lung; 2, pericardium and heart; and 3, large blood- vessels. 1. Injuries of the pleura and lung.—Contusion of the lung without an external wound may be produced by a severe crush of or blow upon the chest. The visceral layer of the pleura may or may not be lacerated. It is attended with paroxysmal dyspnoea, cough, localized dulness, and crepitation, followed in a few days by expectoration of rusty sputa. If the visceral layer of the pleura is lacerated, blood and air may escape into the pleural cavity, and there will then be in addition to the above, signs of hsemo-pneumothorax. The patient usually recovers in a few days, but pneumonia, pleurisy, or abscess or gangrene of the lung occasionally ensue. - Wounds of the pleura and lung may be produced by the fragments of a broken rib, or by a stab or gunshot. When attended with a penetrating wound of the chest, they are very serious. The pleura alone may be wounded, but more often the lung is injured at the same time. Signs.—No single symptom is sufficient to make it certain that the lung has been wounded; but where several of the following are present, the diagnosis becomes fairly certain. Thus, there may be severe shock, abdominal 1 breathing, and cough with expectoration of frothy blood- stained mucus, or even of pure blood. If there is an D D 2