43 GANGBEKE. instead of becoming swollen and infiltrated witti fluids, may shrivel up and become quite dry and mummified. Hence the division sometimes made into moist and dry gangrene. The moist or dry appearance of the part depends upon whether the tissues at the time that gangrene supervenes are charged with blood as in inflammatory gaogrene and in gangrene from venous obstruction; or, whether they are more or less deprived of blood, as in gangrene from the blocking of the main artery supplying the part. The two conditions sometimes run into one another, the dead part at first being moist, and subsequently becoming, as the fluids evaporate, more or less dry. The different appearances presented by the gangrenous part will be further described under Varieties of Gangrene, as it varies according to the cause producing it. The causes of gan- grene, therefore, must first be considered. Causes,—The immediate cause of gangrene, whether the process is induced by inflammation, as described above, or otherwise, may be said to be any agent which is capable of destroying the vitality of the tissues or cutting off their nutrient supply. The agents capable of inducing one or other or both of these conditions are very numerous. Some of them are in themselves alone sufli- cient to act in this way. For others, however, to become operative, certain prior changes in the tissues would appear to be necessary. The causes of gangrene, there- fore, may be considered under the heads of predisposing and exciting. The Predisposing causes are such as impair the vitality of the tissues, and render them less able to resist injurious influences. They, therefore, include those already given under Inflammation (p. 6), and amongst them may be especially mentioned old age, feeble action of the heart, chronic congestion of a part, deteriorated blood as in diabetes and Bright's disease, and impairment or loss of nerve influence from injury or disease of the nerve- centres or nerve-trunks. Exciting causes.—These may be considered under the following heads :—1. Physical or chemical agencies^ which act by directly destroying the vitality of the tissues. Among these may be mentioned mechanical violence, as a severe crushing of part of a limb; excessive heat, as in burns and scalds; intense cold, as in frost-bite; chemical action from strong acids, alkalies, putrid secretions, and