DISEASES OF REGIONS. 746 by the finger in the rectum, or by palpation above the pubes. There are commonly moreover other signs of malignancy, as rapid growth of the tumour, cachexia, &c. Tumours of the bladder, however, especially the villous, are often difficult to diagnose; some aid, it is true, may at times be gained by the electric endoscope, but a diagnosis cannot always be made without a digital exploration of the bladder, which should be undertaken where symptoms such as the above are persistent unless they point to a malignant growth. In using the endo- scope a measured quantity of fluid should be left in the bladder, which should be previously irrigated if the urine contains blood or pus till the fluid returns clear. Treatment.—The removal of the tumour, except it is malignant, should generally be attempted. In the female the urethra may be dilated for this purpose. In the male the incision into the bladder should be made either above the pubes or through the perineum as for lateral or median lithotomy. The supra-pubic incision, however, has the advantage that a more thorough extir- pation can by its means be generally made. When removal is contra-indicated, relief where there is obstruc- tion to the urinary outlet may be obtained by supra/- pubic puncture; haemorrhage should be restrained by astringents; and pain assuaged by opium. Stone tn the bladder may occur at any age, but is said to be most frequent between the ages of fifty and seventy; next, between the ages of two and six ; whilst, between the ages of twenty-six and thirty-six it is rare. It may occur in both males and females, but is decidedly more common in the former. The causes are not altogether known; but residence in certain districts or countries, poor living, abuse of alcohol especially in the form of malt liquor, excess of nitro- genous food, want of sufficient exercise and anything that induces the excessive formation of uric or oxalic acid in the urine, are regarded as predisposing causes. Retention of urine from prostatic enlargement and the presence of a foreign body in the bladder are exciting causes. In a few cases a nucleus has been formed for a calculus by a piece of necrosed bone which has reached the bladder from a fractured pelvis or carious spine. Varieties.—The three most common varieties of calculi met with in the bladder are the uric acid, the oxalate of lime, and the phosphatic. They may occur almost