LARYNGOTOMY. 627 the fcabe stiff and wedge-shaped, facilitates its introduc- 1 tion. Tiie india-rubber tubes may be worn with the I greatest comfort, and for prolonged periods. I have now a patient who has worn them for upwards of five and a half years. When lined with canvas, as suggested by Mr. Baker, the tube will last in very good condition 1 for nearly twelve months. If a silver tube be worn it should be examined on each removal, any blackening of the end, and, of course, the presence of blood being an indication that ulceration is in progress. The tube should only be worn as long as respiration through the j glottis is impeded. To determine when the tube may ' be dispensed with it is only necessary to close the wound with the finger and thus test the breathing. As a rule, it is better to remove the tube at first only during the day, or for a few hours at a time, or where a fenestrated I cannula is used the external opening may be stopped for certain periods with a plug to gradually accustom the i patient to breathe through the glottis. When the tube i has been worn for any length of time some difficulty is often experienced in leaving it off. This may depend chiefly on: 1, the formation of granulations in the trachea above the opening for the tube; 2, adhesions of the vocal cords to one another; and 3, paralysis complete or partial of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Where granula- tions are the cause of the obstruction, they should be touched at intervals with nitrate of silver. Where there is adhesion of the vocal cords the glottis may either be dilated by O'Dwyer's tubes, or the adhesions broken J down by probes passed up through the wound or down through the mouth. The power of the muscles may be restored by galvanism, one pole being placed in the larynx, and the other over the situation of the re- current laryngeal nerve. In children the condition improves as they grow older and as the larynx becomes more developed. Lahyngotomy.—Feel for the cricoid cartilage, and if the case is urgent, and the patient evidently m extremis, plunge a penknife through the skin and subjacent crico- thyroid membrane transversely, immediately above the cricoid cartilage, and hold the wound open by a hair-pin, piece of wire from a champagne bottle, &g. When the operation can be done deliberately, make an incision exactly in the middle line of the neck from a little above the lower border of the thyroid cartilage to a little below the s s 2