INJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 192 seat of fracture may be attempted. But the conditions that call for the adoption of one or other of these methods are too various to discuss here. In compound fracture the vessel should be tied in the wound if possible. If not, amputation will probably, though not invariably, be the right course. INJURIES OF JOINTS. Contusions of joints maybe produced by any mechani- cal violence. They are generally attended with pain and stiffness on movement, and, in severe cases, with swelling from effusion of blood (hcemarthrosis), and later, of serous fluid {synovitis) into the synovial cavity. If the contusion is neglected, especially in strumous children, acute or chronic inflammatory changes may ensue, leading to de- struction of the joint. The treatment consists in placing the part at rest on a splint, or in a plaster-of-Paris band- age, and applying cold by means of an ice-bag or Leiter's tubes. Where there is much effusion into the synovial cavity, and consequently considerable tension and pain, aspiration of the joint may be advantageously practised, and pressure afterwards applied. Sprains.—A sprain is a stretching or partial rupture of the ligaments of a joint without separation of the articular surfaces. Sprains are generally due to a violent wrench or twist of the joint, and are often accompanied by laceration of the tendons and other soft tissues around. They are of most frequent occurrence in the ankle, shoulder, wrist and knee. Signs and diagnosis.—Severe pain, often localized to certain points, and increased on movement, inability to bear weight on the limb, swelling and ecchymosis from efcsion of blood in and around the joint, and later inflammatory effusion into the synovial cavity. The ab- sence of signs of fracture or of dislocation will usually suflice to distinguish a sprain from one or other of these injuries; but where there is much swelling it may be difficult or impossible to make a diagnosis till the swelling has subsided. If there is any doubt the injury should be treated as a fracture. The consequences of a neglected sprain may be very serious, especially in rheumatic and gouty subjects. Thus, as the result of the incomplete absorption of the inflammatory products, the imperfect repair of the torn