148 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF ITsTJURIES. Eeh-leisen cultivated some micrococci from this source, in some instances through thirty generations, i.e., for up- wards of six months, and then inoculated several patients, in all of whom, with the exception of one, who had just recovered from an attack of the disease, erysipelas, after an incubation period of from 15 to 60 hours, was set up."^ The contagion may be conveyed by the hands of the surgeon or nurse, by instruments, sponges, &c., and pro- bably by air and water. It is now supposed to enter the system in all cases through a wound. The so-called idio- pathic erysipelas, in which there is ostensibly no wound, was thought to be an exception, but as this invariably occurs on exposed parts, as the face, it is now believed that the poison gains access through some slight crack or abrasion that has been overlooked. The so-called cellulo- cutaneous and cellular varieties have not been proved to be inoculable, and it is generally held that they depend not upon a specific microbe but upon the ordinary strepto- coccus of spreading suppui^ation. In that, however, they bear certain clinical resemblances to true or cutaneous erysipelas, they are for the present, in accordance mth the more general custom, described here with that affection. Pathology.—The virus when inoculated, multiplies in the tissues, and spreads by the lymphatic vessels and spaces. In the cutaneous form, according to Fehleisen and Metchniko:^, just beyond the spreading edge of redness where the skin is apparently normal the lymphatics are crowded with micrococci; beneath the inflammatory blush the vessels are dilated and the tissues softened ancl infiltrated with leucocytes which are devouring the micrococci. Still further inwards are large amoeboid cells derived from the connective tissue absorbing the leu- cocytes and their contained micrococci, whilst beneath the part where the blush of redness has faded only dead micrococci are seen. The septic products of the micro- cocci, after passing through the lymphatic glands, which become swollen and tender, enter the system, producing the constitutional s^Tuptoms. When the cellular tissue is involved, suppuration generally occurs, and the vessels which run through it to the skin are destroyed, and the skin in consequence sloughs. The post-mortem appearance * These inoculations were undertaken for the cure of lupus and malignant tumourSj and in two instances apparently with success.