824 DISEASES OF EEGIONS. between them. A good way of testing if they are close enough, is to inject milk into the bladder, so that should any escape through the fistula, its colour will make it visible. Smith's needle will be found very convenient if wire sutures are used. The bladder should be emptied by a catheter at regular intervals; the vagina syringed out with an antiseptic solution, and dusted with powdered iodoform; and the bowels kept confined for a week or more. Becto-VAGINAL FISTULA may occur from causes simi- lar to those leading to the vesico-vaginal variety; they are also sometimes congenital. They are commonly situated just within the entrance to the vagina, and may be closed in the same way as the vesico-vaginal fistula. Utero-vesical and utero-rectal FiSTULiE may also occur, but are too rare to require any description here. Imperforate hymen, if overlooked till after puberty, is a serious affection, as the vagina, and later the uterus and Fallopian tubes, may become distended with the re- tained blood, conditions known respectively as hcemato- holpos^ hcemato-metra and hcematO'Salpinx. If relief is not obtained, enormous distension may occur, and the tubes or uterus give way, setting up peritonitis. Or the hymen itself may yield, and all end well; or saprsemia may occur from putrefaction of the blood and absorption of the septic products on the admission of air; or septic perito- nitis may be produced by the sudden alteration of pres- sure or the contraction of th3 uterus causing rupture of the tubes and escape of fluid into the peritoneum. Treat- ment.—Before puberty, division or excision of a portion of the hymen is a simple and safe operation; but when distension has occurred, it is attended with great risk, as if a free opening is made there is danger of peritonitis from the same causes as when spontaneous rupture takes place, and if a small opening is made, of sapreemia from decomposition. The safest plan, perhaps, is to make a small opening, and to keep the parts aseptic by iodoform or the like. Malformations of the vagina.—Atresia or imper- forate vagina. The vagina may be completely absent, or divided by a transverse or horizontal septum. The uterus and ovaries may also be absent, and no trouble will then result; but when these are present, similar results to those described under imperforate hymen may follow. Atresia of the vagina may also be due to adhesions or the