INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMIXr. 46o INJURIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Bruises or contusions, burns, scalds, and frost- bites of the lower extremity call for no special mention beyond that bruises about the hip and ankle may be mis- taken for fracture, and that a contusion of the limb may be so severe at times as to terminate in gangrene. Sprains of the ankle and knee are very common. Pain, inability to bear any weight on the limb, effusion into the joint or the sheaths of the surrounding tendons, and later, ecchymosis of the skin, are the usual signs. A sprain of the ankle, when there is much swelling, is often difficult, and sometimes impossible, to diagnose from a fracture, and should then be treated as such. For an ordinary sprain absolute rest should be enjoined, and cold or evaporating lotions or a wet bandage should be applied. When the swelling has subsided, the part may- be put in a plaster-of-Paris bandage or in a poroplastic splint for some weeks, and then shampooing and passive movements employed if any stiffness be left. EuPTURE OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS, either as the result of external violence or of sudden and spasmodic contraction of the muscle, is not infrequent in the lower limbs. Here, only rupture of the plantaris or Achilles tendon requires special notice. It usually happens in men beyond the middle period of life without any evident cause. It is attended with a distinct snap, and a feeling as if the part had been struck, followed by pain, and sometimes by ecchymosis and inability to raise the heel. Treatment—A. plaster-of-Paris bandage should be applied with the foot in the extended position to approximate the ends of the ruptured tendon. If a heel is made to the plaster case, the patient need not lay up. The plaster case should be worn for two or three weeks. Dislocations of the Lower Extremity, Dislocation of the hip.—This injury is much less common than dislocation of the shoulder, a fact readily explained by the strength of the capsular ligament, the depth of the acetabulum, and the powerful muscles by which the joint is surrounded. It occurs, however, more frequently than might be expected, owing to the powerful leverage which, from the great strength of the w. H H