244 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. quently met with in the young, and are considered by some to be ossifying enchondromata and to spring from portions of the epiphysial cartilage that has escaped ossification. Their common situation is at the junction of the diaphysis and epiphysis of long bones, or at the origin or insertion of muscles—as for example, the insertion of the adductor magnus into the tubercle just above the internal condyle of the femur, and the pectoralis major into the external bicipital ridge of the humerus. They are also very common on the last phalanx of the great toe. (&.) The compact or ivory exostoses consist of dense, hard bone, which usually contains no Haversian canals. They nearly always spring from the bones of the skull and face, and are generally sessile or broadly pedunculated, and of a lenticular shape. Symptoms.—The cancellous variety are met with as hard, smooth or irregular, and frequently pedunculated tumours of slow growth, and are commonly of small or moderate dimensions. Sometimes they are quite painless, but at other times they cause jDain on movement or pressure, as is the case with the small exostosis which so frequently grows from the distal end of the dorsal surface of the last phalanx of the great toe. This, which is usually harder than the more common form of cancellous exostosis, but less hard than the ivory, occurs as a tumour projecting under the nail, and raising it up as it grows. In some cases exostoses affect simultaneously many bones, and at times nearly all the bones of the body. They are then generally hereditary, and often symmetrical, and are spoken of as multiple exostoses. They have the structure of the cancellous form. The evident firm attachment of the ivory exostoses of the skull to the bone, their slow growth, small size, great hardness, the freedom with which the scalp moves over them and the absence of pain and history of fracture or other injury, sufficiently serve to distinguish them. Treatment.—A spongy exostosis, unless occasioning pain, deformitj^ or other inconvenience, or growing rapidly, maybe left alone; otherwise, it should be removed by a chisel, bone-nippers, saw, &c., taking care it is com- pletely extirpated, as what is left will have a tendency to grow again. In removing an exostosis from near the knee-joint, the synovial membrane may be avoided by flexing the knee, and so drawing the membrane away. Ivory exostoses should not as a rule be interfered with,