141 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. several distinct conditions. Thus (1.) i^ merely a symptom of septic traumatic fever, and is then known as Inflammatory or septic traumatic delirium, (2.) It may occur in the highly nervous or neurotic as the result of severe mental strain or exhausting brain-work previous to the injury or operation, being then spoken of as nervous traumatic delirium. (3.) It may be the result of the long- continued abuse of alcohol, and is then ordinary deliriun\ tremens brought on by the accident or operation. These various forms, however, no doubt often occur together. Inflammatory traumatic delirium.—Of this variety little need be said further than that it generally occurs from the third to the fifth day when the septic traumatic fever is at its height, and that it usually begins or is worse in the night and abates with the morning remission of tempera- ture. The treatment is that of septic traumatic fever with the addition of an ice-cap to the head when the delirium is high. Nervous traumatic delirium, though rare, sometimes occurs in subjects of a susceptible nervous temperament or over-exhausted with brain-work. It is unaccompanied by fever and closely resembles delirium tremens, except that it is not due to alcoholism. The delirium, which is usually of a low and muttering, but occasionally of a violent or maniacal character, usually yields to quiet and opium, or bromide of potassium and chloral, with careful feeding and the judicious employment of stimulants where such are indicated. Alcoholic traumatic delirium or delirium tremens differs from the inflammatory variety in the absence of fever, and in the peculiar nature of the delirium, which is of a low muttering or busy kind. The patient has delusions, fancies that he sees animals or devils under his bed or chair, is suspicious of his friends, talks constantly to himself, answers rationally when spoken to, but imme- diately relapses into his incoherent muttering state. Sometimes the delirium is of a violent character, the patient will not remain in bed, and may attempt to destroy himself or those around him. The temperature is normal or but slightly raised; the skin is perspiring; the hands are tremulous; the pulse is full, soft, and often quickened; the tongue is also tremulous, indented by the teeth, and coated with a creamy fur, and in severe cases becomes dry and brown. The bowels are usually ' confined. The patient cannot sleep, and will not of his