304 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. i become inflamed and suppurate; and 3. That as several branches will probably be given ofl between the liga- ture and the aneurysm, the circulation through the sac, though lessened, will not be com- pletely arrested, and the clot is there- fore more likely to have a laminated, and hence a permanent character. Effects 0ftheproximal ligature.—After the successful application of a ligature by the Hunterian method the pulsa- tion in the aneurysm immediately ceases, and for a time the circulation through the limb is diminished. Hence the temperature becomes lower and the surface pale. Soon, however, the collateral circulation becomes estab- lished, and a faint pulsation may be felt again in the aneurysm; but this recurrent pulsation usually grows less from day to day, and shortly ceases, and the aneurysm slowly shrinks and is finally absorbed, or remains as a small, hard, fibrous mass. The artery leading to the aneurysm may remain pervious, but it more frequently be- comes olDliterated as far as the first collateral branch above and below the sac. The artery on either side of the ligature also becomes obliterated as far as the first collateral branch. This con- dition of an aneurysm and artery after ligature is seen in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 87). The blood passes the ligature by the collateral channels ; re-enters the artery below; passes the obstruction where the artery is closed at the seat of the aneurysm, also by collateral channels ; and then again enters the main artery. Treatment after ligature.—The limb should be completely swathed in the cotton-wool and flannel bandages (which, before the operation, should have already been carried up as far as the seat of the ligature), and kept at perfect rest. In the case of popliteal aneurysm, the limb should be Fm. 87.— Diagram to show the con- dition of the ar- tery and aneu- rysm after the Hunterian liga- ture, and the establishment of the collateral circulation. The arrows indicate the direction of the blood rent. cur-