COTs^GEIS-ITAL SYPHILIS. 67 a peculiar conformation of the skull, the result of the previous bone-lesion, consisting chiefly in a furrow above the eyebrows, a square forehead, and prominent frontal eminences; and 4, a characteristic appearance of the permanent central incisor teeth, consequent upon the action of the stomatitis upon them while yet soft and uncut. The distinctive sign of syphilis in these teeth is a slight crescentic notch in the biting edge (Fig. 6). They are also generally dwarfed, especially in width, their angles are rounded off, and their sides convex in outline {pegged teeth). These appearances must be dis- tinguished from those due to the action of mercurial stomatitis, the teeth so affected showing horizontal markings, or honey-comb-like excavations in the enamel (compare Figs. 6 and 7). The bone-lesions of congenital syphilis were until re- cently overlooked, or confounded with those of rickets, which they much resemble. Two forms are described, the osteophytic and the atrophic. In the osteophytic the cranial bones present localized and symmetrical thicken- ings {Parrofs nodes) in the region of the frontal and parietal eminences (the natiform or hot-cross-hun-like skull), and the long bones subperiosteal enlargements. In the atrophic the cranial bones, especially in the occi- pital region, are thinned or locally absorbed, so that the brain is only covered at these spots by a thin membrane {osteoporosis, craniotahes), and the long bones are enlarged at their epiphyses by the production of ill-formed bone and the absorption of the normal bone. These lesions are usually transitory, and generally give rise to little incon- venience; but at times separation of the epiphysis may occur, with inflammation of the neighbouring joint; and when several bones are affected, the child may be so chary of movement on account of the pain it causes that infan- tile paralysis may be simulated. Treatment.—In the early stages mercury generally acts like a charm. It is best administered as an inunction by putting half a drachm of blue ointment on the binder of the child and allowing it to be thus rubbed into the skin. Or it may be given in the form of mercury and chalk in doses of from half to one grain, but is then apt to cause diarrhoea. Mercury, however, should be given with caution if there is much marasmus, and discontinued as soon as the symptoms have cleared up, lest mercurial stomatitis be induced and the permanent teeth suffer in F 2