733 "be done without opeDing the peritoneum, either by a lumbar or a lateral incision, or through the peritoneal cavity, the incision being then made either in the linea alba or linea semilunaris. The extra-peritoneal operation.—If the incision is made in the lumbar region it may be yertical, oblique like that of colotomy, or "["-shaped. If the lateral incision is chosen it should be made obliquely from near the tip of the last rib, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It is the one I have always employed myself, and one now in common use at St. Bartholomew's, its advantages being that it combines the facilities of the intra-peritoneal and the greater safety of the lumbar incision, as it does not involve opening the peritoneal cavity. The kidney having been exposed by any of these incisions, the capsule should be opened, the finger intro- duced, and the kidney enucleated from its capsule; the renal "artery and vein should then be securely tied with a silk ligature passed round them by an aneurysm needle, and the ureter secured separately in a similar way. The kidney may now be removed by cutting through the pedicle with scissors, and the wound drained and dressed antiseptically. The intra-peritoneal operation.—This consists in opening the peritoneal cavity by one of the incisions mentioned above, drawing the intestines aside and then exposing the kidney by cutting through the peritoneum in front of it external to the colon. The vessels are then tied sepa- rately, the kidney removed and the peritoneum united, the same precautions being adopted as after an ovariotomy. A drain-tube is passed by some surgeons through a counter-opening in the loin, and the end of the ureter brought out of the wound. The dangers of nephrectomy are—1. Severe shock. 2. Excessive hsemorrhage. 3. Suppression of urine from disease or absence of the opposite kidney. 4. Peritonitis from wounding the peritoneum. o. Laceration of the colon. 6. Inclusion of the vena cava in the ligature of the pedicle and injury of the duodenum in operating on the right side. Nephrohbaphy is an operation for fixing a floating or moveable kidney by exposing the kidney in the loin, and attaching it with sutures to the parietes. It should only be done where there is intense pain and constant suffering which palliatives have failed to relieve.