844 DISEASES OF REGIONS. circumstances, after the difficulty lias been explained to the patient, is not only justifiable but imperatively called for. Rarer forms of scirrhus in the breast are occasionally met with. Thus—1. The cancer may begin as a general infiltration of the entire gland, when its course is usually very rapid; 2, it may chiefly affect the skin, the whole side of the chest in such a case becoming infiltrated, hard, brawny and leathery in consistency, a condition some- times known as "hide-bound;" 3, it may begin as an infiltration of the nipple, or may be engrafted upon chronic eczema around the nipple; 4, in elderly women it may run a very chronic course, often remaining stationary, if not interfered with, for many years; and, 5, in very ex- ceptional instances, the carcinomatous mass has apparently undergone complete atrophy, even, it is said, after ulcera- tion has occurred, and a spontaneous cure has thus been brought about. Treatment.—In the breast, as elsewhere, the only hope of cure lies in the early and complete extirpation of the carcinoma. Unless, therefore, the Surgeon is consulted before the skin, pectoral muscle, and lymphatic glands are more than slightly involved, he can hold out but little prospect that the disease will not return, and return shortly, that life will be materially, if at all, pro- longed by an operation. Under such circumstances, therefore, there are some Surgeons who hold that an operation with the disease thus advanced ought not to be undertaken, as it can only bring discredit on surgery and may possibly prevent other patients seeking advice whilst there is yet a probability that a free and complete removal of the breast and axillary glands may eradicate the disease. While admitting that this may be true, we must not lose sight of the fact that even although the growth may soon recur either in the cicatrix or glands, or in internal organs, and although life may not be pro- longed, still removal of the growth may rid the patient of a foul and loathsome disease and often of great pain, at any rate for a time, and death may occur in a less dis- tressing way from dissemination of the carcinoma in internal organs. In the meanwhile the patient's mind will be relieved, even if she is not buoyed up with the hope that there may still be a chance of a non-return. Hegarding the question of operation, therefore, it may be briefly said that—\, Where the skin is not involvedj or