214 IIS'JURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES sheath of Schwann in both the proximal and peripheral ends" (Bowlby). The exact manner, however, in which the union and regeneration of the nerve is brought about is hardly accurately known. When a nerve is only par- tially cut across, the divided portions may unite in the way above described, or they may become involved in the scar resulting on the healing of the soft tissues and then prove a source of much irritation to the rest of the nerve. The effects of wounds of nerves in addition to the de- generation of the portion below the wound are:—1. Paralysis of motion and sensation of the parts supplied by the nerve. 2. Subsequent wasting, atrophy, and fatty degeneration of the paralysed muscles. 3. Certain trophic changes in the tissues whose nutrition is presided over by the injured nerve, such as a glazed, smooth, cold and bluish-red condition of the skin, falling off of the hair, cracking and deformity of the nails, local ulcerations and gangrene of the fingers, (fee. 4. A marked diminution of the temperature of the part, which may be preceded for a few days or even a few weeks by a slight increase of two or three degrees. 5. Affections of the joints re- sembling rheumatism, and apt to terminate in more or less complete ankylosis. 6. Ascending neuritis, which is attended with severe pain in the cicatrix, pain shooting up the nerve, and pain in the area of its distribution, and 7. Very rarely, changes in the nerve-centres of a functional or of an organic nature. Signs.—The immediate symptoms are loss of function in the parts supplied by the nerve, viz., local anaesthesia, muscular paralysis, or loss of special sense, according as a motor, sensory, or nerve of special sense is injured. In the case of a mixed nerve both motion and sensation will be lost; but sensation in some instances may be partially restored in a few days through anastomosing branches from other nerves. The remoter symptoms are wasting of the muscles, and the trophic changes of the skin, nails, &c., already alluded to, and sometimes pain in the cicatrix, and in the course of the nerve and its peripheral distribution. The muscles exhibit to electrical tests the reaction of degeneration, i.e., they do not respond to the Faradic current, but contract on the application of a con- tinuous current of less strength than that necessary to cause the contraction of normal muscles ; the contraction elicited, moreoyer, is slow, long, and tetanic; a^d the