DISEASES OE REGIONS. 758 forceps ; 7,there maybe an enlargement of,or tumour in, the prostate, whereby the urethra is greatly lengthened; 8, there may be some rickety or other deformity of the pelvic bones. When the stone is behind the prostate, curved forceps, with the blades turned down, must be used; when the stone is above the pubes, the blades must be turned upwards, the handle depressed, and the stone pressed down by the hand above the pubes. When too small to be seized, the scoop must be substituted for the forceps. If the stone breaks, the fragments must be removed by aid of the scoop and syringe. If encysted, it may be scratched out with the finger-nail, or freed with a probe-pointed bistoury. If too large to be ex- tracted, the wound should first be slightly enlarged; or, this being insufficient three expedients remain—1, to make an incision in the opposite side of the prostate; 2, to crush the stone ; 3, to do the suprapubic operation. The first of these is probably the best. To overcome the difficulty of an enlarged prostate, the blunt gorget must be used and the forceps slid along it. A fibrous tumour in the prostate may be previously shelled out. Where the pelvic outlet is too small to allow of extraction, suprapubic lithotomy must be done. Causes of death after lithotomy. — 1. Diffuse septic inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis due either to infiltration of the urine from too free cutting, or to bruising of the parts in extracting a large stone through a small incision ; 2, peritonitis due to the spread of the inflammation to the peritoneum, or to a wound of the back of the bladder ; 3, shock from too prolonged an operation; 4, exhaustion from primary or secondary haemorrhage; 5, blood-poisoning, due to the absorption of the products of putrefaction (saprsemia), or to septic phlebitis of the prostatic plexus of veins and pyaemia; 6, cystitis; and 7, suppression of urine. The state of the kidneys is of the most serious import. Where these are healthy as in children, lateral lithotomy is one of the most successful operations in surgery; but in adults in whom grave kidney mischief often exists, it is liable to be followed by one or more of the above complications, especially diffuse pelvic inflammation. Thus, in boys, when death occurs it is generally the result of some one of the accidents liable to occur during the operation; in adults the cause is usually dependent primarily on kidney mischief.