478 INJrElES OF REGIOKS. tilt it over tlie condyle, wlien it is at once drawn into place by the action of its muscles. In the edgeways variety, pressure should be made with the thumbs in opposite directions on the upper and lower margin of the dislocated bone, this manipulation being aided by sud- denly and forcibly flexing the knee, and then, if neces- sary, by extending it. Eeduction, though generally easy, is sometimes attended with great difficulty, and has occa- sionally been found impossible, even after subcutaneous division of ligaments and tendons. Effusion into the joint generally follows, and should be treated in the usual way. After reduction the joint should be placed on a back splint or in plaster-of-Paris, and a knee-cap subsequently worn to prevent a recurrence of the dislocation. The knee.—Dislocation of the knee is exceedingly rare. It may occur in a forward, backward, inward, and outward direction, and in any case may be complete or incomplete. Cause.—Usually great violence, as a severe wrench or twist of the joint. Signs.—In the lateral dis- locations, which are generally incomplete, a projection caused by the condyles of the femur on the one side, with a depression below, and a projection of the tibia, or of the fibula, as the case may be, on the opposite side, with a depression above, at once show the nature of the injury. In the antero-posterior varieties, which are generally complete, there is great shortening and deformity of the limb; the head of the tibia in the forward dislocation projects anteriorly; whilst in the backward it can be felt in the ham. In the former there is generally considerable swelling and congestion, and often pain in the limb below the knee, from pressure of the condyles of the femur on the popliteal vessels and nerves. Treatment.—Eeduction, as a rule, is easily accomplished by extension, combmed with manipulation and pressure in the direction indicated by the variety of the dislocation. The limb should then be placed on a back-splint, and an ice-bag applied to the knee, passive movements being begun at the end of two or three weeks, and a knee-cap subsequently worn for twelve months at the least. Compound dislocations usually, though not invariably, call for amputation. Dislocation of one of the semi-lunar cartilages of the knee, usually the internal, may occur from a sudden twist or wrench of the joint during semi-flexion. The accident is attended with sadden and severe pain, a ' locking' of the joint usually in a bent position, and the presence of a