YARICOSE YEINS. 331 diffluent, and the thrombus softened into a purulent fluid, whilst micrococci are found both in it and in the vein-walls. These changes gradually extend up the vein, and should portions of the infectiye thrombus be carried away by the blood-stream, metastatic abscesses in distant parts and general blood-poisoning will result (pywmia). Symptoms.—When a superficial vein is affected there is at first a cord-like swelling as in simple phlebitis, but redness and oedema of the skin soon supervene, followed by fluctuation in one or more situations in the course of the vein, and frequently by general blood-poisoning. When the deep veins are involved, the disease may not be suspected until signs of pyaemia set in, and the condition of the veins can then only with certainty be ascertained on a post-mortem examination being made. The treatment resolves itself into controlling or arresting, if possible, the infective inflammation in the part from which the suppurative phlebitis starts. Beyond this, little can be done, although, could the condition of the veins be diagnosed with certainty, amputation above the inflamed part might, before general blood-poisoning had super- vened, save the patient's life. When the vein is super- ficial, cutting out a piece above the disease has been suggested; but cases to which such treatment would be applicable must be very rare, as the inflammation is seldom limited to a superficial vein. Yaricose veins.—A vein is said to^be varicose when it is permanently and unequally dilated, and its coats have ' undergone certain _ degenerative changes. A varicose condition is most common in the veins of the lower ex- tremities, and in the veins of the rectum and testicle (see Files and Varicocele). The causes may be considered under the heads of in- creased intra-venous pressure, and changes in the vein- walls. A. Increased intra-venous pressure may be due to 1. Organic affections of the heart whereby the return of venous blood is impeded. 2. Obstruction to the circula- tion in the portal system, a cause chiefly affecting the hsemorrhoidal veins (see Files). 3. Pressure upon the veins, such as may be exerted (a) by the gravid uterus or a tumour of the uterus or of the ovaries on the iliac veins; (Z)) by an aneurysm of the abdominal aorta on the inferior vena cava; (c) by faecal accumulation on the haemor- ; rhoidal veins; (c^) by a tumour in the groin on the femoral vein; (e) by an ill-fitting truss on the spermatic veins