DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 298 them. Thus, the modern Surgeon> by means of rest, low diet, recumbency, and certain medicines, endeavours to lessen the force of the blood-current through the sac, and thus to aid Nature in the deposition of laminated fibrin. By compression or ligature of the artery between the aneurysm and the heart he aims at diminishing the flow of blood through the artery leading to the aneurysm, and in this manner seeks a like result. By manipulation and the use of the distal ligature, he endeavours to copy the method of spontaneous cure that is sometimes brought about by the plugging of the artery beyond the aneurysm; whilst by flexion, he imitates Nature's method of cure by the pressure of the aneurysm itself on the artery either above or below the sac. The treatment of aneurysm, therefore, may be divided into the medical or general, and the surgical or local. Medical treatment,—Both internal and external aneu- rysms have been cured by medical treatment alone. Indeed, in some forms of internal aneurysm, it is the only means at our command. In external aneurysms, how- ever, local treatment in addition is nearly always expe- dient or necessary. Absolute rest, both bodily and mental, should be enjoined; the patient must lie in bed, and must not move for any purpose whatever, not even to feed himself. The diet should be limited in quantity, unstimulating but nutritious in quality, and the fluid portion restricted as much as possible. The following diet scale is advised by Mr. JollifEe Tufnell:—Bread and butter, 4 ozs. ; meat, 3 ozs.; potatoes, 3 ozs. ; fluid, 8 ozs. in the twenty-four hours. Small repeated bleedings, where there is excessive action of the heart, or the patient is plethoric, may occasionally be useful. Medicines seem to have little efficacy, but iodide of potassium in large doses, acetate of lead, aconite, and digitalis have been recom- mended, either for promoting the coagulation of the blood, or retarding the heart's action. Where there is a history of syphilis, iodide of potassium should certainly be given. Surgical treatment.—In all suitable cases of external aneurysm pressure, when it can be applied between the aneurysm and the heart, should first be tried, aided under certain circumstances by the method of flexion. But these failing, or appearing unsuitable, the artery should be tied, if practicable, on the proximal side, and preferably at some distance from the sac where the artery is more likely to be healthy. Where pressure or ligature cannot be used