INJUEIES OF REGIONS. 380 gentleness and aided by artificial liglit, the child, if unruly, being placed under an anaesthetic. If a rounded body, as a bead, which is incapable of swelling, does not come away on syringing, it should be left alone for the time, as it will subsequently, by setting up slight sup- puration, become loosened, and can then be removed by again using the syringe. The incautious use of instru- ments has been attended by perforation of the membrana tympani, and even followed by fatal intracranial inflam- mation. As a caution it may be mentioned that the handle of the malleus has ere now been mistaken for a foreign body and roughly torn out. Salivary fistula occasionally results from a wound of Stenson's duct. It is known by a small fistulous opening on the cheek from which saliva dribbles, especially when food is being taken. Treatment,—Numerous opera- tions have been proposed and practised for this somewhat troublesome condition. The principle underlying them all is, first to establish a free opening of the duct into the mouth, and then, if the external opening does not heal, to close it by a plastic operation. Fracture of the nasal bones is always the result of severe direct violence. The fracture is commonly transverse in direction, and is often comminuted and accompanied by much displacement and at times by emphysema. Occasionally the fracture extends through the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and thence to the cribriform plate. Hence it may be complicated by sub- sequent inflammation of the brain and its membranes. Treatment.—The bones should be manipulated into position by the fingers externally and by a director passed up the nostril, or by the dressing forceps with one blade within and one blade outside the nose. The fragments should then be retained in position, which is often difficult, by pads of lint and strapping. They unite very quickly by bony callus. The septum, where this has been deflected, should be straightened, so as to support the depressed bones, and kept in place by ivory plugs passed up the nostrils, or by other suitable retentive apparatus. Where the fracture has not been properly reduced much de- formity may remain, and if the septum has also been deflected, considerable inconvenience may be felt in conse- quence of obstruction to respiration through one or other nostril. In such cases, though a considerable period may have elapsed from the time of the accident, much may be