LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 317 felt beating in the angle formed by the omo-byoid with the sterno-tbyroid. Pass the needle as before from without inwards, taking especial care not to injure the vein which on the left side slightly overlaps the artery. The head should be kept fixed after ligature by sand bags or some form of splint. The chief dangers after ligature are—1. Cerebral mischief from partial cutting of£ of the blood supply to the brain; 2, a low form of pneumonia from interference with the blood supply of the pneumo- gastric centre; 3, suppuration descending into the mediastinum; and 4, suppuration of the sac when tied for aneurysm. The collateral circulation (Fig. 88) is carried on by the anastomosis of—1. The vertebral with the opposite vertebral. 2. The inferior with the superior thyroid. 3. The internal carotid with the opposite internal carotid through the circle of Willis. 4. The deep cervical with the princeps cervicis. 5. Branches of the external carotid with the corresponding branches of the opposite side across the middle line of the neck. The external and internal carotid arteries may be tied by an incision similar to that for the common carotid, but higher in the neck. A point to remember is that the internal carotid is in position at first external to the external carotid and of larger size. The lingual artery may require ligature for haemor- rhage in cancer of the tongue, and as a preliminary to excision of the tongue. Make an incision along the greater cornu of the hyoid bone (Fig. 242, g), divide the skin, superficial fascia and platysma; hook up the submaxillary gland, and a few touches of the director will expose the triangle bounded below by the anterior and posterior belly of the digastricus and above by the hypoglossal nerve. Scratch cautiously through the muscular fibres of the hyo-glossus which forms the floor of this triangle, taking care not to injure the lingual vein which is super- ficial to the muscle: the lingual artery will be seen or felt lying upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx. The vessel, however, is often abnormal, and consequently may not be found in the usual situation. The facial artery is readily tied at the anterior edge of the masseter, where it can be felt beating. It lies anterior to its vein. The superior thyroid artery can seldom require tying except for wounds of the neck, as '* cut throat," and as a preliminary to removal of the thyroid body.