GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. 168 {clonic spasms), the hallucinations, and the escape of viscid saliva from the mouth, will generally serve to dis- tinguish hydrophobia from tetanus following the bite of a dog, and from false or hysterical hydrophobia. In the latter case, too, the convulsions will cease if the patient is put under chloroform. TJie prognosis when the disease has once developed is hopeless. There is no authentic case of recovery from hydrophobia. The treatment may be divided into the preventive and palliative. Preventive treatment.—If the patient is seen immediately after the bite, we should endeavour to re- move the poison from the wound, or else destroy it. This may be attempted by suction, a procedure which appears to be quite safe provided there is no crack or abrasion about the lips or tongue; or if at hand, a cupping-glass may be applied. The parts should after- wards be excised or thoroughly cauterized, the best caustics being nitric acid, nitrate of silver, caustic potash, and pure carbolic acid. It has been advised that if the wound has already healed when the patient is seen the cicatrix should be cut out; but it is more than ques- tionable if this procedure is of any value, especially as it appears that if inoculation by M. Pasteur's method is resorted to before symptoms come on, the disease may be effectually prevented from developing. Pasteur's treatment.—This consists in obtaining a virus of fixed strength and then attenuating it so that it can be safely inoculated. To obtain the fixed virus the disease is transmitted through a series of rabbits, the period of incubation becoming less and less as the virus increases in intensity, till, after passing through upwards of eighty rabbits, the period of inoculation is found to be constant and the virus of maximum intensity. A rabbit inocu- lated with this fixed virus always develops symptoms on the 7th day and dies on the 10th. To attenuate the virus a portion of spinal cord of a rabbit inoculated with the fixed virus is suspended in a sterilized bottle over caustic potash. As the cord dries the virus becomes less virulent, so that after 2 days' drying a rabbit inoculated with it dies in from 11 to 17 days; after 7 days' drying from 23 to 29 days; after 11 days' drying from 30 to 35 days; until after 12, 13, or 14 days' drying, its virulence is com- pletely lost. An emulsion is made of 0*5 centigrams of spinal cord in 2 cubic centimetres of sterilized beef-tea,