CHUONIC tEHlOSTlTlS. 221 necessity of an early incision cannot be too strongly insisted upon, as by its means extensive denudation of the bone and necrosis may frequently be averted, and the risks of blood-poisoning greatly reduced. Should necrosis Occur, the dead bone will have to be removed when it has become loose. Sub-periosteal resection of the whole of a diaphysis is recommended by some surgeons as a means of preventing or lessening the danger of blood-poisoning, but the results hitherto obtained do not appear to have been very favour- able. OHEomc PERIOSTITIS is nearly al- ways associated with some amount of inflammation of the subjacent bone, and is generally limited in extent, constituting what is commonly called a node. Cause.—It is mostly due to syphilis, but may be of rheumatic, tuberculous, or traumatic origin, or caused by the spread of inflammation from an ulcer of the soft parts. It sometimes occurs as a sequela of typhoid and other of the continued fevers. Pathology. — The periosteum becomes swollen and thickened from small-cell-infiltration of its deeper layers, whilst a similar infiltration occurs in the Haversian canals of the contiguous bone. The inflammatory material may, under appropriate treat- ment, be absorbed; or it may undergo ossification, or more rarely break down into pus leading to caries or sometimes to necrosis of the subjacent bone. The ossifying variety (see Fig. 47), or the hard node as it is called when circumscribed in extent, is more common in the long bones, the suppurating or soft node in the bones of the cranium. A suppuratmg node in the extremities is pro- bably always of tuberculous origin; a suppurating node on the cranium is generally syphilitic. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The patient commonly com- plains of a deep-seated, dull, boring pain, worse by night than by day. On examination a hard, irregular swelling of the bone is felt, not as a rule very painful on handling, Fig. 47.—Chronic periostitis. (From St.Bartholomew's Hospital Mu- seum.)