152 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJURIES. if excessive by plugging with iodoform or sal alembroth gauze, or like antiseptic material. Subsequently tbe wounds should be dressed antiseptically, well drained, and the sloughs removed from time to time as they form. At St. Bartholomew's Hospital a large charcoal poultice is with some a favourite form of dressing. Should diar- rhoea set in it may be controlled by opium; but this drug must be given cautiously when there is kidney mischief. In bad cases, where much skin has been destroyed or a joint irreparably damaged, amputation may ultimately be required, but should not, as a rule, be done whilst the disease is in progress. 3. Cellular Erysipelas, or dieeuse cellulitis, is an acute, infective, and diffuse inflammation of the cellu- lar tissue. It may occur in the subcutaneous or submu- cous tissues, in the intermuscular planes, in the cellular tissue of the pelvis or orbit, in fact anywhere in the body where connective tissue exists. It is probable that it does not depend upon a specific virus, but upon the strepto- coccus of spreading suppuration, and hence, although it spreads by the lymphatics and lymph spaces like cutaneous erysipelas, it is not like it a specific infective disease. It may be due to various causes. Thus it may occur in the subcutaneous tissue after a scratch or puncture, particu- larly one inflicted in the post-7nortem room or by the bite of a venomous reptile or sting of an insect; in the pelvic cellular tissue after parturition, or the operation of litho- tomy; and in the submucous tissue after an injury, as a sting of the throat by a wasp. Symptoms.—The constitutional symptoms resemble those already given under the preceding varieties of erysipelas, and though they may vary in intensity they are generally grave and soon assume an asthenic type, and become those of sapraemia as the septic products are absorbed from the decomposing sloughs. The local symptoms vary according to the part attacked. When the subcuta- neous tissue is affected they are similar to those of cellulo- cutaneous erysipelas, save that the skin is not at first involved but is only slightly reddened or mottled; the parts, however, feel hard and brawny, and become boggy as suppuration occurs. Later, the skin, as the vessels which supply it are destroyed by the pressure of the inflammatory exudation in the subcutaneous tissue, loses its vitality and rapidly becomes gangrenous and sloughs. The Treatment is like that of cellulo-cutaneous er}^-