510 DISEASES OE REGIOKS. upwards and outwards as before. These are the two best methods. If the mucous membrane of the nose be very irritable, first paint the inferior meatus with a 4°/^ solution of cocaine. Occasionally owing to post-nasal thickening, deformity of the septum or enlargement of the inferior turbinal the catheter either cannot be passed, or else when passed cannot be turned. In such cases give the catheter a greater curve, and attempt to reach the tube through the other nostril. When air enters the tympanum freely, it is heard distinctly to impinge on the tympanic mem- brane. If the Eustachian tube be narroived, the air is heard but feebly, or not at all, to impinge on the mem- brane. If fluid be present, either in the tube or in the tympanum, a bubbling or gurgling sound is heard. If the tympanic membrane be 'perforated, the air is heard to whistle through the perforation. To hear these sounds in the tympanum it is necessary while inflating to use the diagnostic tube, which is nothing more than a piece of india-rubber tubing 18 inches long, one end of which is inserted into the patient's, and the other into the sur- geon's, ear. Having thus examined the condition of the external and middle ear, the next step is to ascertain if possible the con- dition of the auditory nerve. If a vibrating tuning-fork be applied to the vertex of the head in the middle line the sound is heard equally in both ears. In this case the sound is conducted directly to the labyrinth by the cranial bones. If now one meatus be closed by the finger, the sound is heard with greater intensity in that ear. The explana- tion offered of this phenomenon is that many of the waves of sound, prevented from escaping through the tympanum and meatus, are thrown back and intensified. If, then, a patient who is deaf on one side, hears the tuning-fork better with the affected ear, it may be assumed that the lesion is in the sound-conducting apparatus; while if he hears it better with the sound ear, some affec- tion of the labyrinth or auditory nerve may be suspected. Another way of testing the condition of the labyrinth is to place the vibrating fork on the mastoid process of the affected ear, and when the patient can hear it no longer for the surgeon to transfer it to his own mastoid, and note if he can still hear it himself. There are certain rare exceptions to the truth of what is here stated, but it is im- possible to discuss the subject further in so limited a space. To complete the examination of a patient, test his hearing