I'RACTtrBES OF THE SCAflTLA. 453 strip acts as a fulcrum ; whilst the second, by drawing the elbow forwards, forces the upper end of the humerus, with the clavicle, backwards, and at the same time keeps the shoulder raised. 2. Ellis^s method consists briefly in the use of an axillary crutch supported by two straps, the one round the chest, the other passed over the sound shoulder. The chest strap also encircles the arm and holds it firmly to the side. The forearm is further supported by a sling. 3. The axillary pad and bandage.—Many surgeons simply place a wedge-shaped pad with the base upwards in the axilla, and then bandage the arm to the side with the elbow well raised. If the pad is used, care should be taken in bandaging lest the axillary vessels or nerves are compressed, and oedema, pain, or even gangrene of the arm be the consequence. II. Fracture of the acromial end of the clavicle may occur either internal or external to the coraco-clavicular ligaments. In the former situation there is very little displacement, the fragments being held in position by the above-mentioned ligaments. Pain, crepitus, and possibly a slight gap, will serve to distinguish it. When external to the ligaments the outer fragment is drawn down nearly at a right angle to the rest of the bone, so that its acromial articulation looks inwards, forwards, and slightly downwards. Treatment.—An axillary pad and bandage, with a moulded leather shoulder-cap to protect the parts. lil. Fracture of the sternal end is too rare to require description in a book of this character. The scapula.—The fracture may extend through 1, the body ; 2, the neck; 3, the acromion; 4, the coracoid process; and 5, the glenoid cavity. 1. Fracture of the body is nearly always caused by direct violence. It may be star-shaped or transverse, or it may run vertically or obliquely through the spine ; but com"*-;' * monly it is limited to the infraspinous fossa, and fre- quently the angle is alone broken off. The displacement is not usually very marked, as the fragments are well covered with muscles. Signs.—On fixing the angle of the scapula with one hand, and raising the arm, crepitus and pain may be elicited. On running the fingers along the spine and down the posterior border, some irregularity may be detected when these parts are involved, and on grasping the bone the fragments may be felt to move