TREATMENT OP WOUNDED ARTERIES. 207 lisemorrliage may have been sharp, the wound should on no account be enlarged for the purpose of tying the bleeding vessel, unless it can be seen or felt; since not only may it not bleed again, but as the bleeding has ceased it may also be difficult or impossible to find it. In such a case, however, especially if the patient is much collapsed, he should be watched for the first sign of any return of the hsemorrhage, firm pressure in the meantime being applied over the wound, and where practicable over the course of the main artery above and below. The whole limb, moreover, should be carefully bandaged from below upwards. 5. When the haemorrhage is moderate and clearly arterial, the external wound small, and the artery not seen, pressure should be applied in the way mentioned above, and will probably suffice. 6. When the bleeding is severe and evidently arterial, and the external wound is still open, whether the wound be deep, recent, inflamed, or sloughing, the well-established rule, to which, however, there are of course exceptions, is to cut doiun upon the hleeding point and apply a ligature to each end of the artery if divided, or above and helow the wound if the artery is punctured or only partially cut across. To do this it is generally sufficient to enlarge the wound in the soft tissues; but where the wound is on one side of the limb and the bleeding apparently comes from an artery on the other, a probe should be passed through the wound, its projecting point cut down upon, and the bleeding artery sought through this incision and tied as above. The object of this procedure is to prevent the necessity of making a very large wound. The reasons for tying an artery at the place where it is luounded are:—1. It is often impossible to determine, without cutting down upon it, what artery is bleeding, and should the alternative plan of securing the main artery higher up be adopted, the wrong artery after all may be tied and the bleeding continue. Thus, for example, in a supposed wound of the femoral it might be the profunda, or even a small muscular branch that was bleeding. 2. Even supposing the main trunk were the one wounded the blood might still be carried by the collateral vessels into the artery beyond the ligature, either above or below the wound in the vessel, and bleeding recur from either the proximal or distal end (Fig. 45). 3. Should, more- over, ligature of the main artery higher up thus fail to