60 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF StTHGICAL DISEASES. by local congestion, and hence fades on pressure and usually disappears in a short time. But should the con- gestion continue, some infiltration of the skin may occur, and the epithelium take on increased growth, and be thrown off in the form of scales, the eruption being then known as a scaly syphilide or psoriasis. Should further infiltration occur, a papular syphilide, or lichen, may be produced; or if the process is more acute, serum may be exuded, and raise the cuticle in the form of small vesicles, or even of large blebs, conditions which are spoken of as a vesicular syphilide or eczema, and as a bullous syphilide or pemphigus respectively. Both, however, are rare, and the latter seldom occurs, except in congenital syphilis. Still later, especially where the patient is debilitated, the vesicles may be converted into pustules {pustular syphilide), while the pustules again may dry into scabs, which fall off, leaving no scar beneath [syphi- litic ecthy ma); or if the patient is cachectic, or his consti- tution broken down, ulceration may ensue beneath the scabs [rupda). The appearance presented by rupia is peculiar. As the ulceration proceeds in depth and extent, larger and larger scabs are successively formed beneath those above, which are thus pushed forward, giving the mass the appearance of a limpet-shell. Each rupial spot is surrounded by a dusky-red areola, and on the separa- tion of the scab, a foul circular ulcer is left, which, on healing, leaves a permanent scar. Eupia by some is regarded as an early tertiary, by others as a late secondary, affection. "With the exception of rupia the eruptions in syphilis resemble those due to non-syphilitic causes. They are, however, all modified by their coppery or raw- ham colour, by more or less surrounding pigmentation, by their symmetrical arrangement, by the circular or crescentic shape of the patches, by the absence of itching, by the absence of the large silvery scales seen in ordinary psoriasis, by their predilection for certain situations—i.e., the chest and abdomen, the space between the shoulders, the back of the neck, the forehead, especially about the roots of the hair, the palms and soles, and the flexor aspect of the limbs ; and lastly, by their polymorphism— i.e., their mixed character, the eruption being here papu- lar, here scaly, here pustular, &c. In situations where the parts are moist, as about the mouth, anus, and scrotal folds, the papillae become succulent and the epithelium sodden, forming condylomata. Where such occur between