SCIRRHOUS CAIS'CER OF THE BREAST. singly, but are often multiple. A sanious fluid some- times escapes from the nipple. Treatment.—Simple serous cysts may be laid freely open and allowed to granulate from the bottom, or better be dissected out. Galadoceles with semi-solid contents, may also be laid freely open and their contents squeezed out. Glandular cysts, when numerous, call for the excision of the affected lobule, or if the whole breast is affected and they contain proliferating growths, excision of the entire gland. Involution cysts require no treatment. Carcinoma of the breast is nearly always of the acinous form, of which both varieties, the hard (sc?VrAoi(s) and the soft {medullary), are met with. The hard variety, however, is by far the more common. The general and microscopical characters of carcinoma have already been given under tumours. Here only the special characters which it presents when occuring in the breast will be referred to. Scirrhous carcinoma.—Pathology.—Scirrhus of the breast generally appears as an indurated, nodular, non- encapsuled, tuberous mass, of moderate dimensions, with long processes extending in various directions in the gland-substance and the fatty tissue around, and later, involving the skin and subjacent pectoral muscle. On section (Fig. 323) the tumour gives a characteristic creaking sensation to the knife, and the cut surface appears slightly concave from the contraction and shrinking of its fibrous stroma thus set free from the traction of surrounding tissues. It is of a hard resisting consistency, of a uniform close texture, semi-translucent, of a greyish-white colour often tinged with pink, and has been likened to the section of a potato or unripe pear. Sometimes it is intersected in every direction by short wavy glistening white fibres, with here and there yellow dots and streaks due to section of the epithelial columns which have undergone fatty degeneration ; whilst in other places, little masses of the surrounding fatty tissue and of muscle are seen enclosed by the pro- cesses of the growth, and patches of caseous-looking material or white creamy fiuid, due to the growth having surrounded some of the ducts which have become only partially obliterated, may be scattered through its sub- stance. The section on scraping yields a juice containing cells, free nuclei, and granular material. Signs,—Scirrhous carcinoma generally begins as a small