531 CONJUNCTIVITIS. hours. The lids at first are red and oedematous; the conjunctiva is much swollen and infiltrated with serum (chemosis), and the discharge is serous in nature. After two or three days the serous discharge changes to a very copious discharge of thick pas. The great danger, if the condition is not soon relieved by energetic treatment, is infiltration of the cornea, giving rise to a perforating ulcer and subsequent loss of the eye for useful vision. If untreated, the purulent state lasts about six weeks, and this is followed by muco-purulent conjunctivitis and a granular condition of the lids. II. Infantile Purulent Conjunctivitis {Ophthalmia neonatorum) occurs in newborn children generally on the third day after birth. It affects as a rule both eyes, and is due to inoculation from the vaginal discharges of the mother; to avoid this risk every child's eyes should be thoroughly washed immediately after birth with an anti- septic solution. The symptoms are similar but not so severe as in the adult, and the cornea is not so likely to become involved. The chief complications are corneal ulcers, leukoma adherens, anterior polar cataract, and panophthalmitis followed by shrinking of the globe. The treatment must be directed chiefly to washing away the discharge. For this purpose the eye should be thoroughly syringed or washed every hour, day and night, with a lotion of corrosive sublimate (1 to 6,000). At the same time the lids should be everted if possible and painted with silver nitrate solution (grs. x. to §j.) once a day, and, if practicable, ice-pads applied to the lids. This treat- ment should be continued as long as the discharge con- tinues purulent. Ulceration of the cornea should be treated energetically by the actual cautery or solid nitrate of silver. If only one eye is affected, the rule in the adult, the opposite eye should be covered if possible by a watch-glass shade to prevent inoculation. 3. Membraneous [diphtheritic) conjunctivitis is the most serious and virulent form of ophthalmia, and an eye- may be destroyed by it in twenty-four hours. It is marked by great pain and excessive brawniness, and stiffness of the lids owing to the plastic infiltration of the mucous and submucous surfaces. The palpebral con- junctiva is covered by a smooth grey membrane, and if this is stripped off, the surface still remains grey. The membrane lasts from 6 to 10 days, and is then followed by purulent conjunctivitis. Treatment.—At first anti- M M 2