348 DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. season or air, and cachectic conditions however induced. The exciting cause is any local irritation, such as chafing of the neck by the collar, or of the nates in rowing, the irritation of morbid fluids in making post-mortem examinations, &c. But frequently no efficient cause, either constitutional or exciting, can be discovered. The staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, which is always present in boils, is generally thought to be the essential cause. Signs.—A boil begins as a red pimple usually with a hair in the centre, and as it increases in size forms a painful, dusky, purplish-red and conical swelling, with a flattened apex. The inflammation may at times sub- side, and the boil gradually disappear {blind toil). More often the cuticle separates at the apex, a vesicle forms, bursts, and leaves a yellow slough exposed, which is cast off as a central core through a single opening. Treat- ment.—A boil may sometimes be aborted by plucking out the central hair, injecting with carbolic acid, applying nitrate of silver, or painting it over with a thick layer of collodion. Should these fail, a linseed-meal poultice or hot fomentations, and, where there is much pain, gly- cerine and belladonna may be applied, and after it has broken, a simple healing ointment. An incision may occasionally be necessary. The constitutional treatment consists in attention to hygiene, regulation of the diet and secretions, administration of tonics, &c. Arsenic and sulphide of calcium have at times been found useful. Carbuncle is a spreading inflammation of the sub- cutaneous tissue involving, to some extent, the overlying skin and terminating in gangrene of the affected tissue, which is discharged in the form of sloughs. It differs from a boil in that it is of larger size, has a tendency to spread, and is flattened instead of conical; there is greater brawniness of the surrounding tissues; the skin gives way at several places instead of at the apex; the gangrenous tissue is discharged in the form of sloughs instead of as a core; and it is accompanied by severe constitutional symptoms. Cause.—Any vitiated state of the constitution, such as may be induced by too high or too poor living, gout, diabetes, albuminuria, typhus or other acute fevers, prolonged lactation, and the like. Friction and pressure are mentioned as exciting causes, and are said to explain the frequency of its occurrence on the nape of the neck, back, and nates. The presence of the pyogenic micrococci is the essential cause. It is more