DISEASES OF THE EYELIDS, 527 retinal veins can often be seen to pulsate even in health, and by pressing on the eyeball with the finger the arteries can generally be made to pulsate. (3.) Acuteness of vision.—Snellen's test-types are those usually employed for testing vision, and are constructed so as to be seen under the smallest visual angle (5 minutes). Place the patient at 6 metres from the distant type, and if his distant vision is normal, he ought to read the smallest letters, numbered 6 on the types. His vision is then called |, or 1. If he only reads the top letter it is |q, or ^, and so on. If the patient is under 45 give him the reading types arranged on the same plan, and find out the smallest he can read, and at what distance, thus finding his near point and accommodation. If he is too blind to see the type hold your fingers before his eye, and mea- sure the greatest distance at which he can count them. If he is unable to see the fingers, shade his eye, and throwing light into it, see if he has perception of light. If a patient has only perception of light, the observer should, by means of the ophthalmoscope-mirror in a dark room, throw light on to the different parts of his fundus to see if all are equally light-percipient {projection). The fields of vision may now be mapped out roughly by the fingers, or by the perimeter, for white and colours. Any spots of the field in which the object used is not seen are called scotomata. The colour vision is usually estimated by coloured wools. Intra-ocular tension may be estimated by instruments called tonometers, or by the fingers; the latter is the usual way, and is effected by directing the patient to look down on the ground, and then palpating the eyeball through the upper' lid with both index fingers. Certain degrees of tension have been recognized, the firm, tense, semifluctuating feeling of the normal eye being taken as the mean {Tn); these are denoted according to the degree of increased tension +1, +2, +3, or of diminished tension- -1,-2,-3. I. Diseases of the eyelids and lachrymal apparatus. Ciliary Blepharitis {Tinea Tarsi) is the most common inflammatory affection of the lids; it is usually chronic, and occurs especially in ill-fed, dirty, hyper- metropic, or strumous children. The symptoms are red-