614 DISEASES OE BEGIONS. palate. With a little practice an image of tlie larynx is obtained. Ask tlie patient to pronounce the sounds ah, ee, and the yocal cords will come into view. The image of the larynx is of course reversed, the front appearing in the throat mirror as the back. If any difficulty is expe- rienced in obtaining a good view the soft palate and back of the mouth should be sprayed or painted with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine. If any operation or manipula- tion is required in the larynx itself, it also should be swabbed with cocaine by the laryngeal brush. Laeyjstgitis, or inflammation of the larynx, may be conveniently divided into acute catarrhal, chronic catarrhal, oedematous, and membraneous laryngitis. Acute catarrhal laryngitis may be due to sudden exposure to cold or damp, violent exertion of the voice, or inhalation of noxious vapours or impure air; or the in- flammation may spread to the larynx from the pharynx; or occur in the course of other diseases, as the eruptive fevers. Symptoms.—Soreness of the throat, hoarseness or even aphonia, laryngeal cough, and tenderness on pressure over the thyroid cartilage, accompanied by febrile symp- toms. On laryngoscopic examination the parts are seen red and swollen, and the cords do not come together pro- perly. The treatment consists in rendering the atmosphere moist by the steam kettle, in inhaling soothing vapours, and abstaining from using the voice; whilst if the attack is very acute, leeches, or cold in the earlier stages, maybe applied over the thyroid cartilage. Should the inflamma- tion assume the oedematous form, scarification, intubation, or tracheotomy may become necessary (see Oedematous Laryngitis), Chronic laryngitis may be due to exposure to wet and cold, over-exertion of the voice, excessive smoking, in- halations of dust and vapours, syphilis, tubercle, and malignant disease. The mucous membrane appears thickened and indurated and covered with a muco- purulent discharge, whilst the glottis is narrowed in consequence of the thickening of the mucous membrane. The symptoms are cough, hoarseness, laryngeal voice, dryness and irritation of the throat, and dyspnoea, varying with the amount of narrowing of the glottis. A variety of chronic laryngitis, in which the mucous follicles are chiefly affected, is known as follicular or granular laryngitis, or clergyman's sore throat, and is frequently associated with a similar condition of the pharynx. I