286 DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. swelling in the popliteal space; but becomes flaccid, or disappears altogether on flexing the knee. Counter- irritation or pressure will generally disperse it. If these fail it may be punctured or incised and drained anti- septically ; but the greatest precaution must be taken to prevent septic changes occurring, as it often communi- cates with the knee-joint. The safest course perhaps is • to dissect out the bursa, ligature the pedicle by which it communicates with the knee-joint, and cut the rest away. DISEASES OF THE ARTERIES. Arteritis or inflammation of the arteries may be acute or chronic. Acute arteritis was formerly thought to be of fre- quent occurrence as an idiopathic affection, but as such it is now known not to exist. Acute traumatic arteritis, however, is very common, occurring as its does in the simple or plastic form in the process of healing of an artery after injury or ligature, or from the presence of a non-infective thrombus; whilst as a septic, infective, or suppurative a:ffection it is occasionally met with as the result of the extension of septic or infective inflammation to an artery from the surrounding tissues, or as the result of the presence of a septic or infective embolus brought by the blood-stream from a like inflammation of a distant part, as the heart in ulcerative endocarditis. Plastic or adhesive arteritis has already been discussed under the Healing of Arteries, Of septic and infective arteritis all that need be said here is that when due to extension from the surrounding tissues it may lead to the softening and giving way of the arterial walls, and, unless a clot forms above and below, to haemorrhage; whilst when due to an embolus it may lay the foundation of an aneurysm, or, more rarely, may lead to the rupture of the vessel. It is believed to be the chief cause of aneurysm in children. Chronic arteritis, familiarly known as atheroma, mainly affects the deeper layers of the intima, not, as a rule, the other coats. Hence it is often spoken of as endarteritis. It is the commonest disease of the arteries, and to some extent is generally present in persons over forty. It is most frequent in the aorta and large vessels, that is, in those containing the greatest amount of yellow