TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 65 and the baths of Aix-la-Chapelle or Harrogate will be found beneficial. If mercury cannot be taken or is contra-indicated, iodide of potassium with a tonic treat- ment may be tried. During the secondary stages mercury should still be continued internallyv Locally, condylo- mata are best treated by dusting them with equal parts of calomel and oxide of zinc, under which they dry up very rapidly. Mucous tubercles about the fauces may be gargled with black-wash; superficial cracks and ulcers on the lips, tongue, &c., may be touched with a strong solution of nitrate of silver, or a lotion of bicyanide of mercury or chromic acid. Iritis should be energetically treated by mercury, or if this is already being given, the dose should be increased, whilst locally atropine should be dropped in the eye, and if there is much pain and the congestion is acute, leeches or blisters should be applied to the temple. In the tertiary stages iodide of potassium has the most marked effect. It may often be advan- tageously combined with ammonia, quinine, iron, or cod-liver oil, or even with small doses of mercury if the affection proves intractable. If badly tolerated kola chocolate may be given with it, or iodide of sodium or ammonium substituted for it. In tertiary nerve lesions in- tramuscular injections of perchloride of mercury (gr. J) or of salicylate of mercury (grs.l^) are strongly recommended. The injections are usually made once a week or oftener in the gluteal region, the syringe being passed deeply into the underlying muscle. The treatment of tertiary syphilis will be referred to more in detail under the Diseases of Tissues and Organs. Should phagedsena occur, it must be energetically treated by the continuous hot bath, or by the destruction of the ulcer with the fuming nitric acid or acid nitrate of mercury. Congenital or inherited syphilis is syphilis trans- mitted to the offspring by one or both of the parents, and must be distinguished from syphilis contracted by the infant coming in contact with a chancre on the genitals during birth, which would be a case of acquired syphilis. Cause.—The poison is transmitted through the sperma- tozoa of the father, or the ovum of the mother, and not by direct inoculation and the formation of a primary chancre as in the acquired form. Symptoms.—The child is usually born healthy, and though the virus is present in the system, the disease does not manifest itself as a w. p