620 DISEASES OE REGIONS. Treatment,—Innocent growths should be removed if possible by the intralaryngeal method. This may be done by evulsion with the laryngeal forceps, or by excision with the cutting forceps, or with the cold wire or galvano-cautery snare, local ansesthesia being induced by cocaine. When of very large size, or broad-based, or situated below the cords, or in other parts where they cannot be removed by this method, laryngo-tracheotomy or thyrotomy may have to be performed. When a malig- nant gi owth is confined entirely to the larynx, and the glands of the neck are not involved, thyrotomy may still be performed, and the growth completely cut and scraped away from the cartilages, or if the cartilages are found invaded, part, or even the whole of the larynx may be extirpated. Otherwise palliative treatment only can be employed, or tracheotomy performed if suffoca- tion threatens. OPERATIONS ON THE AIR PASSAGES. Under this head are included tracheotomy^ laryngotomy^ laryngo-tracheotomy, thyrotomy, subhyoid pharyngotomy, and intubation diiidi extirpation of the larynx, A. Tracheotomy , laryngotomy, and laryngo-tracheotomy may be required, 1, for establishing a permanent opening below an obstruc- tion of the larynx; 2, as a temporary expedient until such an obstruction can be removed ; 3, for the extraction of a foreign body or growth; and 4, to prevent blood entering the trachea during operations about the mouth, jaws, tongue, and pharynx. B. Thyrotomy and subhyoid pharyn- gotomy may be necessary for the removal of a growth or foreign body when such cannot be extracted by the intra- laryngeal method or by one of the former operations. 0. Complete or partial extirpation of the larynx may have to be undertaken for a malignant growth confined to the larynx. Before performing any of these operations the Surgeon should consider well the anatomy of the middle line of the neck. Beginning at the chin is the raphe between the mylo-hyoid muscles, next the hyoid bone, and then the thyro-hyoid membrane through which an incision is made in the operation of subhyoid pharyngotomy (Fig. 238, a). Below this is the pomum Adami, or the notch in the thyroid cartilage which, though prominent in adults, especially in males, can hardly be felt in the fat neck of