DISEASES OF REGIONS. 740 viscera, and protrudes as a red velvety tumour. It is associated with epispadias or absence of the upper wall of the urethra, and with failure of union of the pubic bones at the symphysis. The testicles are frequently retained in folds like the labia on either side. It is attended with extreme discomfort from the constant dribbling away of the urine from the mouths of the ureters, which can be seen on the surface of the tumour. Treatment.—Many operations having for their object the closing in of the bladder by flaps of skin taken from the adjacent abdomi- nal wall, have been performed for the relief or cure of the deformity. Various attempts have also been made to turn the ureters into the colon or rectum, but without success. Eecently Trendelenberg has succeeded in re- ducing the gap between the pubic bones by separating the sacro-iliac synchondroses, so that he was enabled at a subsequent sitting to bring the mucous surfaces of the bladder in contact, and then unite them by a plastic operation. The newly formed bladder is in this way lined with mucous membrane instead of having its front wall closed in by skin, the objection to which is the growth of hair into the bladder at puberty and its incrustation with phosphates. Cystitis, or Inflammation of the Bladder may vary from the mildest catarrh to the most intense inflamma- tion involving not only the mucous membrane but the other coats of the organ as well. For the purpose of description, however, it may be divided into the Acute and Chronic. Acute cystitis. Causes.—In its most intense form it is nearly always the result of injury or operation, as the passage of instruments, irritation of sharp fragments of a crushed calculus, &c. In its milder forms it may be due to the extension of inflammation from the urethra as in gonorrhoea, or from the ureters in calculous pyelitis ; to the exhibition of certain medicines, as cantharides; and occasionally in gouty subjects to exposure to cold. Symptoms.—In the acutest forms there is intense pain, and strangury, i.e., a continual desire to void urine, which is passed drop by drop in a spasmodic manner; whilst there is high fever, rapidly running into a typhoid type. In the less acute or more common forms micturition is still very frequent, with increased pain, as soon as a little urine has collected in the bladder, in consequence of the stretching of the inflamed mucous membrane. The urine