630 DISEASES OF REGIOlSrS. hand, lie advises to be done for: 1. Membraneous laryn- gitis in children; 2. Foreign bodies in the trachea or bronchi; 3. Impaction of foreign substances in the larynx; 4. Necrosis of the cartilages with obstructive thickening of the tissues; and 5. As a preliminary to certain operations attended with haemorrhage about the face or mouth. Thyrotomy, or laying open the larynx from the front by dividing the thyroid cartilage in the middle line, may be required for the removal of a tumour or a foreign body impacted in the larynx after a thorough and careful attempt has been made to extract it by the natural passages (intralari/ngeal method). Make an incision accu- rately in the middle line of the neck from the hyoid bone to the cricoid cartilage (Figs. 238 and 242, b), and, having exposed the thyroid cartilage, and stopped all bleeding, divide it along the angle formed by the junction of the alse, taking care to do so in the middle line so as not to injure the vocal cords. Separate the alse, and remove the growth, &c., and bring the alse accurately together again, and unite them by silver wire or kangaroo-tail-tendon sutures, which should not, however, be passed through the whole thickness of the cartilage. "When the removal of the growth is likely to be attended with haemorrhage, tracheotomy should first be performed and the trachea plugged by Hahn's cannula. Subhyoid pharyngotomy consists in opening the pharynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane (Figs. 238 and 242, a), for the purpose of removing a tumour or impacted foreign body at the entrance, or in the upper part of the larynx. It is so rarely required that the steps of the operation are not given in detail here. Intubation of the larynx consists in passing a properly-shaped tube through the glottis by means of a forceps or pilot invented for the purpose. The tubes now used are those known as O'Dwyer's. It is employed as a substitute for laryngotomy or tracheotomy in certain cases, as oedematous laryngitis, membraneous laryngitis, &c. It does not seem likely that intubation, as has been maintained by some, will replace, tracheotomy for mem- braneous laryngitis, since there is a danger of the mem- branes being forced into the trachea by the tube, thus causing obstruction, nor does the intubation admit of the removal of the membranes as can be done after trache-