676 DISEASES OF REGIONS. after ovariotomy. The strictest antiseptic precautions must of course be taken. In the successful operations there has been no return of the stricture at present. Splenectomy, or extirpation of the spleen, may be required for rupture of the viscus, and for some cases of hypertrophy. An incision is made either in the linea alba, the linea semilunaris, or, still further to the left, and the spleen having been thoroughly exposed, adhe- sions carefully broken down, and the organ, if enlarged, drawn out of the wound, the pedicle is transfixed in several places, and the ligatures interlocked and tied. The pedicle is next severed well to the splenic side of the ligatures, the organ removed, the peritoneum thoroughly cleansed, and the abdominal wound united and drained. Grreat care should be taken not to tear the splenic sub- stance, an accident attended with fearful haemorrhage. Drainage of pancreatic cysts due to obstruction to the duct or to injury may be required. These cysts give rise to a tumour in the epigastrium, which is often at- tended with severe neuralgic pain, and from which may be obtained on aspiration an alkaline fluid having the properties of turning starch into sugar and of emulsi- fying fats. Fat may be present in the faeces and sugar in the urine. The abdomen should be opened and the cyst stitched to tbe abdominal wall and drained. hernia. The term Hernia, though often used in conjunction with other terms to signify the protrusion of any viscus from its containing cavity, as, ''Hernia cerebri,'" or ''Hernia testis,'' when employed alone is applied only to such a protrusion from the abdomen or pelvis, and is equivalent in this sense to the term Eupture, the name by which the affection is popularly known. Description of hernia in general.—A hernia may occur at almost any situation, but is most common at the inguinal and femoral rings, spots at which the abdominal parietes are,naturally weaker than elsewhere. It gene- rally consists of intestine, or of omentum, or of both; but almost every one of the abdominal or pelvic viscera have at times formed the protrusion. The causes of hernia are predisposing and exciting. The ])redisposing may be divided into : 1. Hereditary