IKJtTHIES OF THE BECTUM. 429 but as a rule (although the bladder is said to have been full at the time of the injury) only a little urine flows. In mere bruising and ecchymosis of the perineum the catheter will pass easily, and there is, as a rule, no escape of blood from the urethra. Treatment,—A Soft catheter should be passed if pos- sible ; if not, a gum elastic or a silver one, and in any case tied in. Failing to pass a catheter and extravasa- tion of urine in any quantity having already occurred, a silver catheter should be passed down to the obstruction, and a free incision through the middle line of the peri- neum made on its point. If the proximal end of the torn urethra can now be found, the catheter should be passed through it into the bladder and tied in. If not readily discovered, a prolonged search for it need not be made, as with a free incision through the perineum there is no danger of further extravasation of urine. If the urethra is found only partially torn across, it has been proposed to unite it by suture and close the perineal wound, but such a procedure is attended with some risk of extravasation, and could hardly be done where extra- vasation had already occurred, on account of the softened condition of the tissues. Should a fragment of the pubic arch be found compressing the urethra, steps must be taken to remove it, the bladder in the meantime being aspirated above the pubes to prevent further extravasa- tion occurring. A silver catheter, as the point of this is more under control than that of a soft one, should be passed daily during the healing of the wound, and the patient enjoined to pass one for himself at frequent inter- vals, and warned that if he neglects to do so a stricture will gradually form. In.jtjuies oe the rectum occasionally occur from falls upon sharp-pointed bodies, or incautious attempts to pass a long enema-tube or bougie. Should the peritoneal cavity be perforated, death is the almost invariable con- sequence. If any injection has been thrown into the peritoneum before the mistake is discovered, opening the abdomen, flushing out the peritoneum, and sewing up the rent in the gut, probably holds out the only chance of escape. EoREiGN BODIES IN THE BECTUM.—Foreign bodies of the most various descriptions have at times been acci- dentally or intentionally introduced into the rectum. Fish-bones that have been swallowed not infrequently