ANGULAR CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 645 ternal to the erector spinee; the second to a swelling in the iliac fossa. The psoas abscess may be known by the swelling being at first external to the femoral vessels, by the impulse on cough, and by fluctuation being detected on pressing above and below Poupart's ligament. The abscess makes its way under the femoral vessels, and then generally points at the inner and upper part of the thigh, and there breaks. After the opening of these abscesses hectic but too frequently sets in, and the patient succumbs to the long-continued suppuration pro- ducing exhaustion or lardaceous disease; or he is carried ofl by tubercle in the lungs or other organs. Under more favourable circumstances the abscess may heal, firm ankylosis of the spine occur, and the patient recover with a permanent hump-back. Diagnosis.—In the early stages caries must be diagnosed from neuralgia, rheumatism, lumbago, aneurysm, tumours, and hysteria; in the later stages the angular curvature may have to be diagnosed from the kyphotic curvature of rickets. From neuralgia, rheumatism, and lumbago it is not always easy to distinguish it. The history of a former rheumatic attack, the effect of remedies, and the absence of the signs given above, must then be relied upon. Hysteria may simulate it very closely. The ab- sence of signs of caries, except pain; the inconstant and more diffused character of the pain; and the pre- sence of other signs of hysteria or of uterine disease, are the points to be attended to. A careful ausculta- tion of the chest and examination of the abdomen will usually serve to exclude aneurysm. From tumours of the vertebral bodies leading to the breaking down of the vertebrse caries cannot at first be diagnosed, as both give rise to the same symptoms, but the age of the patient and the presence of a carcinomatous growth elsewhere would lead to suspicion of cancer. The curve of rickets is more generally kyphotic, and disappears more or less completely on gently holding the child up by its arms, or extending it with its face downwards across the nurse's knees. There are, moreover, concomitant signs of rickets, and absence of those of tubercle. Treatment.—Both constitutional and local measures are required. The former are those already described under Tubercle (p. 49). The chief local indications are to keep the spine at rest in order that the diseased vertebrae may be placed in the most favourable condition for repair. This may be attempted in two ways,—1, by