144 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF INJURIES. under certain conditions, lead to disseminated suppura- tion through, the body (Pycemia)^ ; and (2) the specific or the true infective micro-organisms, as the bacillus of anthrax, which, when introduced into the tissue or sys- tem, set up a like disease to that from which the subject they were taken from was suffering. Micro-organisms in large numbers are often found in the blood and in the tissues immediately after death. Both septic and infective diseases may occur simul- taneously in the same subject. Thus, a specific virus may set up a localized infective inflammation in the wound, and the septic products of this may be absorbed into the system either with or without the specific virus. Or septic products in the wound or in the system at large may favour the growth and development of the infective organisms. These diseases, whether septic or infective, may be divided into the local and the general: that is, the poison may set up local mischief, which may or may not be followed by general 23oisoning of the system; or the whole system may be primarily affected, any local mischief that may occur in the wound being merely of secondary con- sequence. Classification of septic and infective diseases :— I. Septic diseases.—{a) Local,—1. Septic inflamma- tion, {h) General.—I. Septic traumatic fever; 2. Saprse- mia or septic intoxication; and 3. Hectic fever. II. Inpective diseases.—(a) Local.—(1) Non-specific. 1. Suppuration; 2. Cellulitis; 3. Hospital gangrene ; 4. Wound diphtheria. (2) Specific.—1. Cutaneous erysipelas; 2. Phlegmonous erysipelas; 3. Malignant pustule; 4. Actinomycosis, {h) General.—{1) Non-specific.—1. Pyaemia. (2) Specific.—1. Septicaemia ; 2. Glanders ; 3. Hydro- phobia ; 4. Tetanus; and 5. Some forms of Anthrax- poisoning. Septic inflammation, hectic fever and spreading trau- matic gangrene have already been described. General Septic Diseases. Septic traumatic peyer is the result of the absorp- tion of a moderate dose of the chemical products of putrefaction or decomposition from a septic or imperfectly- drained wound (see septic inflammation). It begins usually about the second or third day after the wound, whether