159 PY.EMTA. tissues and organs of the body. It received its name on tlie erroneous supposition that it was due to the entrance of pus into the blood, seeing that it generally originates in connection with a suppurating wound, and is later attended with purulent collections in various parts of the body. By some it is still regarded as a later stage of septicaemia, as previous to the formation of the abscesses the two diseases are often clinically indistinguishable. Eecent investigations, however, point to py<3emia being a disease distinct from both septicoemia and saprsemia, and have further made it appear probable that the train of symptoms known as pyaemia are due to several different pathological processes. Cause.—The immediate cause is no doubt the entrance of a poison into the blood, and since pyogenic micrococci have been found in the wound, the thrombosed veins leading from the wound, in the blood, the tissues, and the metastatic abscesses, it is now held that these organisms are essential factors in the production of the condition known as pyaemia. Pyaemia, however, is seldom deve- loped except where the patient is exposed to unfavourable hygienic conditions, amongst which may be especially mentioned overcrowding in ill-ventilated and badly- drained hospitals, particularly where a large number of suppurating 8.nd foul wounds are congregated together in the same ward ; whilst the general debility induced by insanitary dwellings, poor living, town life, and the abuse of alcohol, in that it lowers the resisting power of the tissues, further predisposes to the disease. Pyaemia is generally developed in connection with a wound which has reached the stage of suppuration and has not been properly drained and kept aseptic. It is probable, there- fore, that the septic products entering the system with the pyogenic micrococci further lower the resisting power of the tii^sues. The micrococci having gained admission to the wound, infect the thrombi fillins: the veins leading from it, and are carried away with detached portions of the,thrombi into the venous circulation. The emboli be- come lodged in the capillaries of the tissues and organs, and being infected with the pyogenic organisms and im- pregnated with septic ptomaines from the wound, set up suppuration in the tissues around the vessels in which they lodge. In other instances it is believed that the pyogenic micrococci may enter the circulation in such masses that they are sufficient in themselves without