117 STTBCtJTAJ^EOtJS WOtT^BS. strong carbolic or corrosive sublimate lotion (some recom- mend its cauterization with caustic potash, or nitrate of silver), and then dressed and protected from further in- fection. If a wart, or indolent sore form, it should be destroyed by nitrate of silver, or other caustic, and the patient's health improved by tonics and change of air. If an infective inflammation be set up, the wound should be freely incised, and any abscess that may form in the axilla, or elsewhere, opened early; indeed, if there is much tension or brawniness of the parts, incisions should be made before pus has formed. The bowels in the mean- time should be cleared by a brisk purge, and the strength supported by nourishment and stimulants. Stings of insects sometimes cause troublesome local in- flammation, which is occasionally of a diffuse character, and where a large extent of surface is stung, as by a swarm of bees, ma^' be attended with symptoms of severe depression. Stings of the throat occasionally occur from swallowing a wasp, and are liable to be followed by oedematous laryngitis. Treatment,—The application of ammonia will at once relieve pain. Where there is severe depression, ammonia or alcohol must be ad- ministered. Scarification, intubation of the glottis, or even laryngotomy, may become necessary in severe stings of the throat. Snake-hites.—The bites of poisonous snakes, other than the adder, are fortunately rare in this country. The bite of the common adder is seldom fatal. It is attended with much collapse, nausea or vomiting, great pain in the part, swelling of the affected member, subsequent discoloration from blood-extravasation, and occasionally inflammation and suppuration. The treatment consists in sucking the part where practicable, applying a bandage tightly above the bite to prevent absorption of the poison, and the internal administration of stimulants. The local application of liqaor potassae or permanganate of potash, the injection of ammonia into the veins, and excision of the bitten part are recommended. Eor an account of the more serious symptoms attending the bite of the cobra and other venomous serpents of tropical countries, a larger work must be consulted. Subcutaneous wounds.—A wound, whether it be of the connective tissue, bone, muscle, tendon or other structure, is said to be subcutaneous when the skin or mucous membrane remains intact. Such wounds differ