^ CAilBTTl^CLE* 349 P common in men than in women, and does not usually occur till after the middle period of life. It is especially dangerous when associated with diabetes, and when it occurs on the face and scalp. In the former situation, suppurative phlebitis of the angular vein, with extension of the infective thrombi through the ophthalmic vein to the cavernous and other blood sinuses in the skull, and consequent meningitis or general blood-poisoning, is the danger to be apprehended. Symptoms,—It begins as a hard painful swelling, accompanied by fever, generally of a low type and with marked depression. The swelling rapidly spreads, and forms a flattened, generally more or less circular, elevation of the skin, surrounded by con- siderable brawny induration and redness. At first red, it soon becomes purplish-red, dusky or livid. Vesicles form over its surface, and on bursting, leave a number of aper- tures in the skin through which a greyish-yellow slough is seen. The apertures then coalesce, and the slough is gradually thrown off, leaving a granulating wound; or the inflammation continues to spread, and the patient may sink into a low typhoid or delirious state, and die of asthenia or of blood-poisoning (saprsemia, septicaemia, or pysemia). Treatment.—The strength must be supported by fluid nourishment, and stimulants as indicated by the pulse and temperature; the patient should have abundance of fresh air, and should not, if it can be avoided, keep his bed. Opium should be given when there is much pain. Locally, a crucial incision was formerly a favourite practice, but it is attended with so much haemorrhage that unless the patient's powers are good it should not be made. Some recommend the introduction of potassa fusa or the injec- tion of carbolic acid into the carbuncle, and speak highly of both plans as a method of arresting its progress while still small. Others apply strapping firmly over it, leaving an aperture for the escape of the discharge through the centre. Others again make a subcutaneous incision when there is much pain and tension; whilst by the majority of surgeons the expectant treatment of merely poulticing is followed. Poultices are open to the objection that they tend to produce putrefaction of the sloughs, and as their chief use is the application of heat and moisture, a better substitute is some hot antiseptic lotion, or spongio-piline steeped in hot antiseptics. Eecently scraping away the sloughs and diseased tissues by a Yolkmann's spoon has been recommended for preventing septic poisoning and