DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 344 The true neuromata are exceedingly rare, and call for no further mention. The fibromata^ though., like other tumours of nerves, far from common, are the variety most frequently met with. They grow from the connective tissue either of the sheath, or its prolongations within the nerve; in the latter case the nerve-fibres will be spread out over them (Fig. 94). They are generally single, or there maybe several on the same or on different nerves. Signs.—They occur as painful, more or less globular tumours in the course of a nerve, and are often accompanied by numbness, tingling, and perhaps muscular spasm in the part it supplies. They can be swayed from side to side, but cannot be moved up and down in the long axis of the nerve. Another form of fibrous tumour con- nected with nerves is the so-called painful subcutaneous tumour of Paget, which occurs as a small nodule beneath the skin, and causes the most exquisite pain when handled. The treatment consists in dis- secting the tumour out, or if this is impracticable, removing it along with the affected portion of the nerve, and then suturing the divided nerve-ends. If the divided ends cannot be brought into contact an attempt may be made to graft a piece of nerve between them. The painful subcutaneous tubercle is readily removed by dissection. The myxomata are the next most com- mon tumours of nerves, and give rise to similar symptoms. The sarcomata, though more rare, may also be met with in nerves, and are sometimes multiple. CoisrvuLSiVE or musculae, tic, or histrionic spasm as it is sometimes called, is a convulsive twitching of the muscles of the face, due to some form of irritation of the facial nerve the nature of which is not known. It is at times associated with neuralgia of the fifth nerve. Stretch- ing the facial nerve just after it emerges from the stylo- mastoid foramen may be undertaken in severe cases, as, for instance, where the spasm interferes with sleep, &c., and with a fair prospect of success, Fig. 94. — A median nerve, with a tumour over which the filaments are spread out. (St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mu- seum.)