365 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. pupils are variable, but sensitive to light. The sphincters are often relaxed at the time of injury, allowing the in- voluntary passage of the faeces and urme, but are not paralysed. This condition, after lasting for a variable time, usually passes gradually into the second stage—that of reaction; or symptoms of compression or of inflammation of the brain may come on without the patient recovering consciousness. 2. The second stage, or that of reaction, is marked by a gradual return to consciousness, and is usually preceded by vomiting, which is therefore regarded as a favourable omen. The skin becomes warm, the pulse increased in frequency, and the temperature slightly raised. These symptoms commonly terminate in com- plete convalescence, or they may run into those of in- flammation of the brain. At times, however, the patient may relapse into a state of unconsciousness and die, or certain impairments of brain function may remain. The remote effects of concussion may be enumerated as headache, confusion of thought, mental irritability, im- paired virility, optic neuritis and atrophy, epilepsy, or even insanity. These after-effects are more likely to occur if there is an inherited predisposition to nervous diseases, and appear to be brought on by excitement, abuse of stimulants, or excesses in diet. In some of these cases the brain has been examined after death, but no organic lesion has been found. Treatment.-—The chief indication is to restore the cere- bral functions by promoting the cerebral circulation, taking care not to produce too violent a reaction. Thus the patient should be placed at perfect rest; warmth applied to the surface by means of blankets, hot bottles, and, if necessary, by friction; and small quantities of diffusible stimulants, as ammonia or warm tea, adminis- tered. Alcohol should not as a rule be given. When reaction has come on, inflammation must be warded off by gentle purgatives, low diet, and the avoidance of stimulants and of mental exertion. Compression of the brain maybe caused by: 1. A fragment of depressed bone; 2. Extravasated blood; 3. Pus, or other inflammatory products; and 4. A foreign body, such as a bullet. The signs of compression, i.e., of pressure on the brain, vary according as the compression is made over a wide area or is localized to a particular part. Thus, when the pressure is diffused over a considerable portion of the