DISEASES OF REGIONS. 564 patient dies comatose, of general blood-poisoning, or of bronchitis or pneumonia. It appears to be of a nature similar to the gangrenous inflammation of the female genitals known as noma. The treatment must be ener- getic. The parts should be well dried, and thoroughly destroyed with fuming nitric acid; or boroglyceride may be applied in milder cases. The strength must be sup- ported with strong beef-tea, brandy-and-egg mixture and nutrient enemata. Eecumbency should be insisted upon during convalescence, since there is a tendency to fatal syncope, which may remain for some time. Salivary calculi are sometimes met with blocking the orifice of Wharton's duct, or, more rarely, one of the ducts of the other salivary glands. They are composed of animal matter, impregnated with phosphate and a trace of carbonate of lime. Generally they can be seen, or at any rate felt, in the interior of the mouth, as hard bodies in the course of the duct. They may give rise, by causing retention of the secretion of the gland, to swelling, pain, and tenderness in the obstructed gland, and sometimes to suppuration and salivary fistula. An incision through the mucous membrane over the calculus will allow of its removal with a scoop or forceps. Should stricture of the duct follow it must be divided transversely. Eanula is a bluish-white, semi-translucent, globular or ovoid swelling situated in the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue, and containing a glairy mucoid fluid. It is probably produced by the enlargement of one of the mucous follicles so numerous in that situation. Mr. Morrant Baker has conclusively shown that it is not usually a dilatation of Wharton's duct, as was formerly taught. It is painless, but interferes, to a greater or less extent according to its size, with the movements of the tongue in speech and deglutition. Sometimes these cysts attain a large size and extend deeply in the neck, pre- senting below the jaw. Treatment.—After painting the parts with a twenty per cent, solution of cocaine, a portion of the cyst-wall should be pinched up with nibbed forceps, and a good-sized piece of it excised with curved scissors. A deep hold must be taken or the mucous membrane, which adheres but loosely to the cyst, will alone be caught up. The fluid should be squeezed out, and the lining membrane cauterized with a stick of nitrate of silver, and the opening kept free by the daily passage of a probe, so that healing may take