396 IN-JITRIES OF REaiONS. uncomplicated cases of fracture of the spinous processes and laminae, and more rarely of the transverse and arti- cular processes, are sometimes met with. In the majority of cases fracture and dislocation are combined. Thus, usually there is fracture of the body and articular pro- cesses of one or more of the yertebrse, with dislocation of the whole of the spine above the seat of injury from the spine below. This common form of injury is in the context spoken of as fracture-dislocation. Fracture-dislocation". Causes.-—It is either the result of direct violence applied to the spine, or of indirect violence, as a fall upon the head. 1. When the result of direct violence, which can only be ap- plied to the posterior part of the spine, one or more of the spinous processes may be detached with- out implicating the vertebral canal. When the violence is very great, as in a fall from a height on the back across a beam or rail, or a severe blow, as from a crane, the spine is bent violently backwards, tear- ing asunder the structures form- ing the anterior segment of the column, and crushing those forming the posterior. Hence the vertebral bodies are gene- rally uninjured, but wrenched apart, the intervertebral carti- lages are ruj^tured, the anterior common ligament is torn, and the arches of the vertebrae and the articular and spinous processes are crushed. The vertebrae above the injury are dislocated forwards, as the articular processes being fractured and the intervertebral cartilages torn, nothing remains to keep them in position. 2. In fracture from indirect violence (Fig. Ill), such as may be received in a fall from a height upon the head, or catching the head whilst passing under an arch, or from a weight falling upon the head or shoulders, the spine is bent violently for- wards, crushing the anterior part of the column and tearing the posterior asunder. Here one or more of the bodies and intervertebral cartilages are crushed between Fia. 111.—Fracture-dis- location of the spine. (St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital Museum.)