WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 413 taken to establish a good drain, as should they extend deeply they are apt to be complicated by effusion of blood or suppuration in the sub-peritoneal tissue. They are liable to be followed by ventral hernia. Peneteating wounds are such as involve the peri- toneal cavity. They may be divided into the following :— 1. Simple penetrating wounds without injury or protru- sion of the viscera. 2. Penetrating wounds with injury, but without protrusion of the viscera. 3. Penetrating wounds with protrusion, but without injury of the viscera. 4. Penetrating wounds with both protrusion and injury of the viscera. I. Simple pen?:teating wounds without injuky on PROTRUSION OF THE VISCERA.—When the wound is large there will usually be no difficulty in ascertaining the fact that the viscera have escaped injury. If, how- ever, the wound is very small—a mere puncture, or made obliquely, it may be difficult or impossible to say whether any injury to the viscera has been done, or, indeed, whether the abdominal cavity has been penetrated. In such a case it has hitherto been taught that the wound should on no account be probed for the purpose of settling the point, but the patient treated as if the'wound had pene- trated, and had not injured the viscera. If all antiseptic precautions are taken however, it is questionable whether the safer course is not to thoroughly explore the wound, not only by probing but by enlarging it if necessary, so as at once to ascertain whether it has penetrated the peritoneum, and whether the viscera have escaped injury, and not to wait till the diagnosis is settled by the onset of peritonitis. Where there are signs of internal haemor- rhage no surgeon would, I presume, hesitate to search for the bleeding vessel. Treatment.—Large wounds should be thoroughly cleansed with some weak antiseptic lotion (as 2 per cent, boric acid), and united with china- silk sutures, which should be passed through the peri- toneum as well as the edges of the wound so as to bring the two free surfaces of the serous membrane into contact. If this is not done the discharge from the deep part of the wound may make its way into the peritoneal cavity and set up peritonitis. In the case of punctured wounds it has usually been the custom to merely close them and apply some antiseptic dressing. As a rule, however, it will probably be safer to enlarge them, and, having ascertained that the viscera have escaped, to treat