INJUKIES OF MtJSCLES A^B TEKBONS. , 20l tageously made, as for instance in the popliteal space in wounds of the knee, and a tube passed through the joint. "Where there is extensive laceration of the soft parts, much comminution of the bones, or other complications of such a nature as to render it doubtful whether a useful limb can be obtained, the question of amputation or ex- cision must be raised. In deciding on the propriety of an operation the Surgeon will be influenced by the situation of the joint, and the probable power of the patient, either on account of his age or the general state of his constitu- tion, to stand the acute inflammation and prolonged suppuration which must almost necessarily ensue if the limb is not removed. In a work of this character such a diflicult question cannot be adequately discussed. Briefly it may be said, that an injury which in the elbow might be treated in the ordinary way or by excision of the joint, would in the knee probably call for amputation; that a wound of the wrist is generally more serious than one of the ankle; and that the sacrifice of the limb is required for a much less severe wound of the knee than of the ankle. INJUHIES OE MUSCLES AKD TENDONS. Contusions of muscles are very common as the result of falls, blows, kicks, or other violence. They may vary from a slight bruising with or without tearing of the muscle-fibres and blood-extravasation to complete pulping of the muscles. Signs,—In the slighter cases there is dull aching pain increased on movement, ill-defined and deep- seated swelling, and later, ecchymosis as the blood makes its way to the surface. Some stiffness or loss of power from partial atrophy frequently follows, and occasionally inflammation and abscess. Severe cases are frequently associated with other injuries of the part, as fracture of a bone, laceration of a large blood-vessel, &c. The treat- ment consists in keeping the part at rest with the muscle as much as possible relaxed, and in preventing inflam- mation by cold, lead and opiimi lotions and the like. Shampooing, massage, and galvanism may subsequently be necessary to restore any loss of power that may ensue. Wounds of muscles may be incised, lacerated, punc- tured, or contused. When the wound is made trans- versely, the divided ends, which gape widely, must be