DISEASES OE BEGIONS. 834 of the gland, the resulting abscess then bursting into the cellular tissue behind the breast. The whole breast is pushed forward and presents a characteristic conical appearance. There is deep-seated and throbbing pain, increased on moving the arm, and some oedema and mottled redness of the skin. The pus usually gravitates towards the lower and outer part of the breast, where the abscess commonly points; or it may burrow through the gland, producing fistulous tracks which are often very difficult to heal. Treatment.—In all varieties an early and free incision should be made, preferably under an ansesthetic. In the intra-mammary the incision should radiate from the nipple, so as not to cut across the galactophorous ducts; and should be free, not a mere puncture, lest the abscess cavity degenerate into a sinus. In the post-mammary the incision should by preference be made at the most dependent part to ensure an efficient drain, though of course pus wherever pointing must be let out. Should sinuses or fistulse form, they should be laid freely open and thoroughly drained, after being scraped by a Yolk- mann's spoon, The strength should be supported by a generous diet, and ammonia and bark, or quinine and iron given, together with stimulants, if indicated. Chronic lobular inelammation of the breast, which has been described by various names, as lobular indura- tion, chronic hypertrophy, chronic interstitial mastitis, &c., affects generally one lobe, or limited portions of the gland, and is of much interest in that it is liable to be mistaken for a tumour. It is said to be most, frequent in married women beyond the child-bearing period of life; but my own experience is that it is as often met with in young and unmarried women. Cause and Pathology.—It is generally attributed t ovarian disturbance. A small-cell-infiltration occurs i the connective tissue of the a:ffected lobe with increase proliferation of the epithelium. Later the cells develo into fibrous tissue, which contracts, pressing upon an obliterating the ducts and acini, and causing fatty de- generation of the epithelium lining them. Should some of the acini escape the pressure which has obliterated the ducts leading from them, small cysts may be formed; but such cysts never attain a large size in consequence o the unyielding nature of the fibrous tissue by which the are surrounded.