597 CHRONIC NASAL CATAHBH. f have found most useful is that known as Dobell's solution, but peroxide of hydrogen is perhaps equally as good. I The cleansing lotion should not be used as is so frequently j done by Thudichum's nasal douche, as by its means the j deeper recesses and upper portions of the nasal fossse can- not be reached, and not only may much harm be done to the mucous membrane of the nose, but inflammation of the middle ear may be set up. The solution is best applied ! in the form of a coarse spray, either by the anterior or posterior nasal spray-producer worked by double handballs (Fig. 220). When thoroughly cleansed, astringent or sedative solutions—best in the form of sprays — should be I applied, and of these may be I mentioned tannic acid, sulpho- ' carbolate and iodide of zinc or menthol, eucalyptol (5SS. to 33*.)) terebene (gr. xx. to 53.), cocaine and thymol (gr. x. to dissolved in liquid petroleum, a better vehicle than water for intranasal medica- tion. Or astringents or iodo- form may be applied in the form of powders by the insufflator, or in the form of gelatine bougies. Where there is great hypertrophy, the hypertro- phied tissues must be destroyed by the local application of chromic acid, or the galvano- cautery; or the ends of the inferior turbinated body if much enlarged may be removed by the cold wire or galvanic ecraseur. At times the whole of the turbinated body may be removed with advantage. If the septum is j deflected, it must be straightened; and if adenoid growths ' are present, they must be removed. In the atrophic form, little more can be done than cleansing and disin- fecting the cavities by lotions of carbolic acid, borax, aristol (5SS. to 3]'.), and the like; whilst the mucous membrane may be stimulated to secretion by the use of Grottstein's nasal tampons, or by the insufflation of san- guinaria, galanga, &c. Cubebs internally is often of service. TuBEECULOUS TJLCEEATION sometimes occurs. It may lead to necrosis of the bone, falling in of the nose, and Fig. 220. — Spray - pro- ducer. A. Nozzle for anterior nares ; b. Noz- zle for posterior nares.