INFLAMMATION. 13 surface to the escape of red corpuscles, and to the blood passing into the yeins before the oxyhsemoglobin has all been reduced. The redness varies according to the intensity of the inflammation, being bright in the acute, and dull in the chronic yariety, and generally assumes a livid hue when suppuration is about to occur. It may sometimes be absent as in inflammation of non-vascular tissues, although present in the vascular area around. It more or less disappears after death. The increased heat is now generally held to be due merely to a greater flow of blood through the part, and not to any generation of heat in the part itself, as the blood coming from it is never hotter than the blood in the left ventricle of the heart. The inflamed part, however, feels intensely hot and burning to the patient, although the thermometer shows little actual increase of heat. The pain^ which is due to pressure upon or stretching of the terminal nerve-twigs by the dilated blood-vessels and by the exudation, varies in intensity and character, and is nearly always increased by pressure and by the dependent position. It is of a stabbing character in serous membranes, aching in bone, throbbing when pus is about to form, more intense when occurring in organs where but slight stretching can occur, as the globe of the eye or the testicle, and less intense in parts like the axilla where the tissues are loose. In the eye, as well as pain, there may be flashes of light; in the ear, noise. The pain is sometimes referred through the nerves to other parts or organs. The swelling, which is caused partly by the increased quantity of blood in the inflamed area, partly by the exudation of leucocytes and serum, and partly by the proliferation of the original tissue elements, is, as might be expected, greatest in lax tissue, as the axilla, and least in the dense and fibrous, as bone or tendon. It is always an important sign in chronic inflammation where there may be but little redness or pain. The disturbance in function^ which practically always occurs in an inflamed part, may be illustrated by the inability of an inflamed bladder to retain urine, or of an inflamed eye to tolerate light. The constitutional symptoms may be summed up as those of fever. There is a rise of temperature—often preceded by chilliness or even a distinct rigor, a quickened pulse, dry skin, furred tongue, loss of appetite, constipation,