24 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. now made their way to the inflamed spot. The tissues, as the result of the devitalizing or digestive action of the products of the micro-organisms, undergo what is called coagulation necrosis, and then softening and liquefaction, and finally disappear among, or are absorbed by, the leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells which now com- pletely replace them in the form of a mass of small round cells. The cells in the centre of this dense mass being cut o& from their nutrient supply by the destruction of the vessels, partly as the result of over-stimulation or over- work in their battle with the micro-organisms, and partly as the result of the peptonizing action of the latter, in their turn degenerate and die, and are now found floating in a fluid formed by the liquefied tissues and serous exudation infiltrating the part. The dead leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells are known as pus^corpusdes, the fluid as liquor puris. Thus a cavity is formed containing pus. Meanwhile around the cavity the leucocytes and tissue cells continue to aggregate and thus form a barrier to the advance of the microbes. New vessels now grow into the mass of small round cells and the abscess cavity becomes surrounded by a layer of vascular granulation- tissue (the pyogenic zone). The accompanying woodcut (fig. 3) illustrates diagrammatically the appearance that would be presented by a section through an abscess and the surrounding tissues. In the centre is the abscess cavity; around this in the upper half of the diagram are zones representing the inflammatory changes in various stages of progress. When an abscess enlarges it is simply by the extension of the inflammatory process from zone to zone. The central cavity increases by the successive degeneration of the small round cells, which fall into the cavity and become pus-corpuscles, whilst what was for- merly the zone of thrombosis is now converted by the aggregation of the leucocytes and proliferated tissue cells into the zone of small round cells, the zone of dilated vessels and retarded flow into the zone of thrombosis, and so on to the circumference. Such at least occurs when an abscess spreads uniformly in all directions. Usually, however, it makes its way in the direction of least resistance, these changes then occurring chiefly at that part. If an abscess is not opened the tension and the presence of the pus keep up the inflammation, but when the pus is evacuated and all sources of irritation are removed the circulation in the vessels around resumes