846 DISEASES OF REGIONS. cysts. It usually occurs in middle-age, is of slow growth, and not accompanied as a rule by pain. The treatment consists in amputation of the whole breast. If this is done, no further trouble usually occurs. Colloid Carcinoma of the breast is very rare. Its structure is like that of scirrhus or encephaloid cancer, but here and there large epithelial cell-masses have undergone colloid degeneration. It is of slower growth, and less frequently affects the glands than either scirrhus or encephaloid, and has a less tendency to recur after re- moval. The prospective length of life is said to be three or four times that of ordinary scirrhus. Excision of the breast.—The arm being held out from the side by an assistant so as to put the pectoral muscle on the stretch and well expose the axilla, an elliptical incision should be made below and another above the nipple, cutting widely of any adherent or infiltrated skin. The skin above and below should now be reflected from the breast, and the latter dissected the pectoral muscle, taking care to remove the pectoral fascia and any portion of the muscle that appears affected with the disease. Should any gland be felt in the axilla, the incision should be prolonged in an upward and out- ward direction, the axillary fascia opened by the scalpel, and all the glands that can be felt enucleated in part by the fingers, and in part by the handle of the scalpel, care being taken not to injure the axillary vessels or large nerve-cords, both of which are situated at the upper and outer part of the space. The skin should now be drawn together by sutures, a drainage tube having been placed in the deeper part of the wound. "Where the skin cannot be made to cover in the wound, the flaps should be drawn as much together as possible by stout silver sutures, and the remainder of the wound left to granulate. The arm should be secured to the side with the forearm and hand across the chest. DEFORMITIES OF THE NECK, KNEES AND FEET. Wry-neck or torticollis is a distortion chiefly de- pendent upon contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It may be congenital or acquired. Causes,—The congenital form is attributed to—1, spastic contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle due to disease