INJURIES OF EEGIOIS-S. 422 made into it, and an artificial anus thus formed. A congested portion of omentum should be ligatured and cut off, and the stump returned; a gangrenous portion should be cut off, and the stump, which is probably already adherent, separated from the parietes, ligatured at a healthy spot, the diseased part cut away, and the stump returned. The general treatment should be the same as that before described. lY. PENETRATmG WOUNDS WITH BOTH PROTRUSION AND INJURY OF THE VISCERA.—The protruded viscus is nearly always a portion of the small intestine. The wound should be united by suture in the way already de- scribed, and the intestine then replaced. If the intestine is completely divided it may be united either by suture or by Senn's plates and returned, or an artificial anus may be made. If the wound is high up the intestine the former procedure should be the one adopted. Traumatic peritonitis may be set up by any of the injuries above described, and may either remain localized as a simple inflammation to the neighbourhood of the wound or other injury, or, as is more frequently the case, may become diffused over the whole peritoneal cavity, when it generally assumes a septic character, and ter- minates in blood-poisoning from the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction. The simple localized variety, after gluing the parts together, and thus preventing the spread of the inflam- mation, usually subsides; but it may terminate in sup- puration and the formation of a circumscribed abscess, which may burst externally, into the intestine, or into the general peritoneal cavity, then setting up diffuse peritonitis. The diffuse variety is generally due to ex- travasation of urine, blood, bile, or the contents of the stomach or intestine, or the breaking of an abscess into the peritoneal cavity; and when there is an open wound, or a wound or rupture of the bladder, stomach, or intes- tine, it generally assumes a septic character. It usually terminates fatally, sometimes in a few hours, usually within a week or ten days, either from collapse, or from blood-poisoning due to the absorption of septic products. Should recovery occur, death may subsequently ensue from intestinal obstruction consequent upon the gluing together of the intestines or the strangulation of a loop by a band of adhesion. Symptoms,—In the local form there is severe pain at one part of the abdomen increased on pressure, on deep