DISEASES OF REGIONS. 544 capsule of the lens near its centre, and by a crucial incision lacerate the capsule of the lens. ISTow slowly withdraw the needle, put atropine in the eye, and apply a bandage. The effect of this operation, which may have to be repeated, is that the lens-matter passes into the anterior chamber, and is softened by the aqueous and absorbed. Occasion- ally in young children repeated needlings may produce absorption of the whole lens. As a rule, however, after a week or ten days the soft matter must be evacuated, especially if it produces much irritation or increased ten- sion. This is done by making an incision in the lower part of the cornea by a keratome (Fig. 189), as in the first steps of an iridectomy operation (page 537). After the corneal incision has been made and the keratome with^ drawn, a curette (-Fig. 190) should be introduced through the corneal wound, and by manipulating the curette the soft matter passes out along its groove and can be removed. Care must be taken on completion of the operation that the iris is not caught in the edges of the wound. The CHIEE INJURIES of the lens are (1) traumatic cataract due to rupture of the capsule and (2) dislocations of the lens usually downwards but sometimes into the anterior or posterior chambers. yi. Diseases of the optic nerve, retina, and vitreous. The optic nerve fibres may be divided into two sets, axial (for the supply of the yellow spot region) and 2)eripheral (for the rest of the retina). Optic neuritis, or inflammation of the optic nerve, may be acute or chronic, and attack the whole or part of the fibres of the nerve; and may be divided into (1) papillitis affecting the intraocular end of the nerve, and (2) retro-hulhar neuritis affecting the nerve behind the globe. 1. Papillitis usually affects both eyes except when due to orbital mischief. The signs, chiefly ophthal- moscopic, are hypersemia, swelling and haziness of the edges of the disk, distended and tortuous retinal veins, and small or normal retinal arteries. In extreme cases the retina is much involved [papillo-retinitis), the dis- tended veins being covered in part by greyish-white strise or opacities, and the retina itself oedematous with flame- shaped haemorrhages often radiating from the disk. The vision may be normal or much reduced, and the field for