WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. '205 large quantities is extravasated into the tissues the treatment will depend on the situation of the ruptured artery. Thus, in the case of the popliteal, amputation is usually called for, especially if the vein is also ruptured, as gangrene, for the reasons stated above, will almost invariably ensue if the main artery is tied either above or at the seat of rupture. In the case of the axillary, how- ever, where the collateral circulation is much more free, the ruptured artery may be cut down upon and secured above and below the bleeding spot. Wounds oe arteries may be divided into the pene- trating and the non-penetrating. 1. The non-penetrating are those in which either the outer only, or the outer and middle coats, are notched or torn. Here the wound may heal, or the uninjured coat or coats may ulcerate, give way, and haemorrhage ensue, or may gradually yield, as may also the cicatrix left on the healing of the wound, to the pressure of the blood, and lead to the formation of an aneurysm. 2. The penetrating are those in which the interior of the artery is laid open. In this case much will depend upon the size of the artery, and whether it is completely or only partially cut across and upon the direction and size of the wound. (a) . Wounds of large arteries, as the aorta or pulmonary artery, whatever their nature, are usually immediately fatal. (b) . Wounds of arteries of the second and third degree, as the femoral and brachial. If the artery is completely divided, and the edges of the wound are cleanly cut, re- peated haemorrhages rapidly terminating in death will generally ensue ; but if the edges are uneven and ragged, as in the avulsion of a limb by machinery or by a cannon- ball, the external coat becomes twisted up, and the middle and internal retract and contract, a clot forms within the vessel, and no haemorrhage occurs. If the artery is partially divided and the wound is made transversely to the long axis of the vessel the longitudinal tension of the elastic coat causes the wound to assume a diamond shape, and severe haemorrhage will ensue ; but if the wound is made parallel to the long axis of the vessel, and is small (a mere puncture) it may heal by adhesive inflammation. In the latter instance the cicatrix may remain permanent, or it may subsequently yield, producing a traumatic aneurysm.