407 PROLAPSE AND HERNIA OF THE LUNG. or with, pleuritic effusion, the lower part of the chest will be dull to percussion, and a splashing sound on shaking the patient {succussion) may be heard on auscultation. The air is usually absorbed, but should the breathing become seriously affected it may be removed with the aspirator. 4. Emphysema, or air in the connective-tissue spaces, is sometimes called surgical emphysema to distinguish it from the medical affection of the same name in which the air-cells of the lung are dilated. It is generally due to a wound of the lung combined with a laceration of the parietal and visceral layers of the pleura, and is a very frequent complication of fractured ribs. The air either escapes into the pleura at each inspiration, and thence during expiration is forced through the parietal layer into the subcutaneous connective tissue, or it passes, if there are adhesions between the two layers of the pleura, directly from the lung into the subcutaneous tissue. More rarely it is due to a rupture of the lung without injury of the pleura, the air then escaping at the root of the liiDg into the posterior mediastinum, and thence into the connective tissue of the neck and arms. More rarely still it may occur without a wound of the lung, or even without a wound of the pleura. Signs.—The emphysema, though usually limited to the seat of injury, may extend somewhat widely around it, and in rare instances has spread over the whole body. It gives rise to an ill- defined flattened swelling unattended with signs of in- flammation and unaltered on inspiration and expiration. On pressing on the swelling a peculiar crackling sensa- tion is experienced, like that of rubbing the hair between the fingers. Treatment.—A pad and bandage is all that is usually necessary, but should the air instead of becoming absorbed extend so widely as to interfere with respiration, a puncture or two must be made to let it escape. 5. Prolapse and hernia of the lung.—Prolapse of the lung occasionally occurs through a wound in the chest-wall. It should be returned by gentle pressure, the wound being slightly enlarged if necessary. If the pro- lapsed portion has become adherent and congested it may be removed by the knife or ligature, taking care not to break down the adhesions of the visceral layer of the pleura to the chest-wall and so open the pleural cavity. Hernia of the lung is sometimes met with after a pene- trating wound of the chest has cicatrized, or even when