315 dead body. Here only the chief rules that should guide us in applying a ligature, and a short account of the methods of tying the more important arteries, can be given. General rules for ligature:—1. The incisions should generally be made parallel to the course of the artery, and the skin divided evenly to promote union by first in- tention. 2. Each successive cut through the underlying tissues should be made the same length as that through the skin, and bruising of the parts avoided as much as possible. 3. The sheaths of muscles and tendons should not, if possible, be opened. 4. The sheath of the vessel having been exposed and the artery felt pulsating with the index finger, the sheath should be pinched up with forceps and opened by cutting with the blade of the knife on the flat. 5. The sheath being opened, it must be separated from the artery in the whole of its circum- feretLce, either by careful dissection with the knife turned with its edge from the artery, or by the director insinuated by a gentle to and fro movement between the sheath and the artery. If this part of the operation is not done very delicately, too much of the sheath in the long axis of the artery will be separated, and there will be danger of secondary haemorrhage from cutting off of the blood supply which the vessel receives from its sheath. 6. Having separated the sheath, one side of it should be seized with the forceps and the needle passed, unthreaded, between it and the artery, and the point, by a gentle to and fro movement, carried round the vessel without injuring or including any of the contiguous structures. It should always be passed from the side on which the vein lies. 7. When the point of the needle projects on the opposite side, it should be cleared from any loose cellular tissue of the sheath it may have carried before it by scratching with the finger-nail, or cutting on the needle with the edge of the scalpel directed from the artery. 8. The artery should be gently pressed between the curve of the needle and the finger to ascertain that no other structure is included, and that pressure controls the pulsation in the aneurysm. 9. The needle should now be threaded with the ligature which is carried round the artery as the needle is y/ithdrawn; the ligature should then be tied in a reef knot and its ends cut off short. 10. Should much of the sheath have been unavoidably separated from the artery, two ligatures had better be