LUMBAR COLOTOMY. 671 add to the risks of the operation, and are, I think, un- necessary if the bowel is drawn well into the wound. Lumbar colotomy is the opening of the colon in the left lumbar region [QalUsen^s operation), or in the right (Amussafs operation). The former should be chosen when the disease is in the rectum or lower part of the sigmoid flexure; the latter when there is any doubt whether it may not be in the transverse colon. That on the left side, the commpn operation, need only be described. Place the patient on his right side, slightly inclining towards his face, with pillows under his I abdomen, or beneath his loin, in order to make his left side prominent. The outer border of I the quadratus lumborum, the ; guide to the colon, should then be marked: it is situated half an i inch posterior to a line drawn ver- I tically upwards from a point mid- ! way between the anterior superior , and posterior superior spines of i the ilium. Then make an incision i about four inches long between the last rib and crest of the ilium I from the erector spinse obliquely i outwards and downwards. Di- I vide the skin, fascia, and various j layers of muscles, viz., the latis- j feimus dorsi, external oblique, internal oblique, and trans- versalis, and the transversalis fascia on a director (Fig. 255), and the quadratus lumborum will now be exposed at the inner part of the wound, and may be known by its fibres running upwards and inwards. When the colon is distended it will bulge in the wound; when contracted, however, it may be sought in the wound by carefully scratching through the fatty tissue covering it with two pairs of dissecting forceps. If there is much difficulty in finding it, pass per rectum a small catheter, if practicable, through the stricture, and inflate the colon. The colon may be distinguished from the peritoneum, which sometimes pre- sents in the wound, by its situation immediately external to the quadratus lumborum and below the kidney; by the presence of the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres; by the thickness of its coats on nipping it up by the fingers; and, at times by in this way feeling scybalous i i Fig. 255. — Diagram of parts divided in left lumbar colotomy.