DISEASES OE SPECIAL TISSUES. 332 (see Varicocele) ; or (/) by a tight garter on tlie saphenous veins. 4. Long-standing, which has a tendency to cause the accumulation of blood in the veins of the lower extremity. 5. Severe muscular exertion, whereby an increased amount of blood is driven by the contraction of the muscles from the deep into the superficial veins. Some authors consider this the chief, if not the only cause of varicose veins of the lower extremities. They maintain that the pressure of the blood first produces a dilatation of the superficial veins where the intermuscular veins empty into them; that this dilatation being frequently repeated becomes permanent; that the valves in conse- quence are unable to close and protect the veins, and being thrown out of use gradually undergo atrophy, whilst the weight of the column of blood, from the inefficiency of the valves, becomes further increased, and the veins still further dilated. B. Changes in the vein-walls,—These consist principally in an hereditary weakness, want of muscular tone, and inflammatory softening of the walls. Varicose veins are more common in men than in women, owing to their more frequent exposure to the exciting causes; women, however, are peculiarly liable to them during pregnancy. Pathology.—A varicose vein is lengthened, dilated, and frequently tortuous (Fig. 93), the dilatation being espe- cially marked where the intermuscular veins open into the superficial, and at the situation of the valves. The middle, and to a less extent the outer coat, are often greatly thickened by the formation of fibrous tissue, but the inner coat shows little change. In the dilated portions immediately above the valves the coats, on the other hand, may be found greatly thinned, so that the vein may give way at these situations. The valves them- selves, from the dilatation of the veins, cease to be of service, and become atrophied and frequently reduced to mere ridges or fibrous cords. Thus the intravenous pressure in the segment below is increased as the column of blood in the upper part of the vein is no longer, supported by the valves. The deep veins are generally involved in the varicose condition, and the smaller radicals returning the blood to the varicose vein from the skin often share in the dilatation. The skin, in consequence of the obstruction to the venous return, becomes con- gested and chronically inflamed [varicose eczema)^ and frequently gives way, producing an ulcer {varicose ulcer);