COMtOtrND rHACTtJllE. 187 cartilaginous stage. The loose fragments and injured tissues, where the bone is comminuted and the soft parts are much bruised or lacerated, are cast off by the process of ulceration (Fig. 44), before healing ensues. "Where, however, a fragment retains its connection with the periosteum, it may not lose its vitality, but may help in the restoration of the bone. Where a large portion of bone is denuded of periosteum it generally dies, and is usually separated as in the ordinary pro- cess of necrosis (Fig. 44). It may, however, become embedded in the new bone, and remain a source of irritation for years. Dangers o f compound fracture. —1. Immediate dangers : shock and collapse from loss of blood, which may prove fatal in a few hours ; more rarely fat-embol- ism. 2. Intermediate dangers: septic inflammation, erysipelas, sapraemia, septicaemia, pyaemia, and tetanus. 3. Late dangers: hectic, lardaceous disease, and exhaustion from long-continued suppuration. The treatment varies according to the state of the parts, the age and health of the patient, and the situation of the fracture. Our aim, when possible, should be to convert a compound into a simple fracture. Thus, w^hen the wound is small, a mere puncture, it should, after being well cleansed by antiseptics, be closed by a piece of antiseptic gauze, and the case treated as a simple fracture. "When the wound is large and lacerated, or other serious injury of the bone, soft parts or neighbouring joint has been sustained, the question of amputation will arise. (See Amputation in Compound Fracture, p. 188.) Having, however, determined to save the limb, the indications are —(1) to reduce the fracture, and maintain the fragments at perfect rest; and (2), to promote the healthy healing of the wound. The fracture should be set as described under simple fracture; if the fragments protrude they should be reduced where practicable, sawn off where Fig. 44.—Diagram show- ing i)rocess of separa- tion of necrosed bone in compound fracture. A. Ensheathing callus; B. Internal callus ; c. Necrosed fragments. D. Gfranulations lining wound leading to frac- ture. (After Billroth.)