CHRONIC TUBERCULAR ARTHRITIS. 261 slowly displaced, and painful star tings of the limb at niglit indicate that the bones are involved. Now tenderness followed by fluctuation may be detected at one or more spots ; the skin becomes red in these situations ; and the abscess if not opened, bursts externally, allowing of the escape of curdy pus. Thus, by the formation of succes- sive abscesses, the tissues around the joint are slowly undermined, and sinuses and fistulae are formed. The general health becomes more markedly affected, and although even now the sinuses and fistulae may heal and the patient ultimately recover, suppuration as often con- tinues, hectic sets in, and the patient dies of exhaustion, or succumbs to phthisis or lardaceous disease. The treatment must be both local and constitutional. The local indications are (1), to place the joint at absolute rest in a position in which it will subsequently be most useful should ankylosis occur; (2), to keep it at rest, not only till all signs of the disease have disappeared, but for some months afterwards, to prevent a relapse; (3), to open and drain antiseptically any abscess that may form, or fully expose the cavity of the joint and remove the diseased tissues; and (4) in advanced and intractable cases to save the patient's life by the sacrifice of the limb. For keeping the joint at rest, splints maybe employed similar to those mentioned under chronic synovitis; and in the case of the lower extremity, where there may be flexion of the hip or knee, the patient should be placed in bed, and extension made by a stirrup, weight and pulley, or by Bryant's double splint (Fig. 164), till the deformity has been overcome. The time the splints should be worn will vary in each individual case according to the progress of the disease. Eoughly, it may be said that they will generally be required for many months, perhaps for several years, and that they must be worn three months after the disease has ceased. The consti- tutional means which must be adopted, are those that have already been described under the treatment of Tubercle (p. 53). Should the disease progress in spite of treat- ment the joint may be freely opened and the diseased synovial membrane scraped or cut completely away [artliredomy), or if the cartilages and articular ends of the bone are found much diseased, the joint excised. Where however abscesses and sinuses have formed and notwith- standing antiseptic drainage and injection of iodofoim- glycorine emulsion, the patient is becoming exhausted by