748 DISEASES OF REGIONS. The terminations of stone,—If neglected, cystitis is set up, and inflammation may spread up the ureters to the kidneys, leading to the changes described under Surgical Diseases of the Kidneys, In consequence, moreover, of the obstruc- tion to the urinary outlet, the bladder may become hyper- trophied, and the ureters and kidneys dilated in the way described under stricture. Symptoms,—The three chief symptoms are—1. Pain, generally referred to the end of the penis, and worse after micturition on account of the stone then falling on the sensitive trigone and the walls of the bladder contracting upon it. 2. Frequent micturition; and, 3. A little blood in the urine. These symptoms are increased on exercise, especially riding, and after the jolting of a railway journey, &c., and are least marked at night when the patient is at rest. Other symptoms that may be present are the passage of gravel; sudden stoppage of the stream during micturition; the presence of muco-pus in the urine owing to cystitis; piles in adults and prolapse of the rectum in children, due to straining; and elongation of the prepuce in boys caused by the constant handling to relieve pain after micturition. Stone in the bladder may be simulated by cystitis, an enlarged prostate, a long or adherent prepuce, a narrow meatus, a growth in the bladder, calculous or other disease of the kidney, a peculiar choreic condition of the bladder (the stammering bladder of Sir James Paget), tubercle of the bladder, and ascarides in the rectum. An accurate diagnosis, however, can only be made by sounding the bladder; though in boys the stone may be felt by the finger in the rectum whilst pressure is made with the other hand above the pubes. Sounding the Madder.—The ordinary sound (Pig. 288) is a solid steel instrument with a short bulbous beak. Thompson's sound is hollow to allow some of the urine to be drawn off if desired, and has a handle like that of his lithotrite, to facilitate the necessary movements in the bladder. Having warmed and oiled the sound, pass it like a catheter, letting it glide into the bladder by J Fig. 288.—Ordinary sound.