DISEASES OF REGION'S. 504 semination, and tlie tumour is small and fairly circum- scribed, it may be removed. When growing from tbe scalp this can be usually done without much, difficulty; but when the growth arises from the bone or dura mater a much more serious operation will of course be required, since a considerable portion of the skull will have to be cut away and the dura mater probably opened. It need hardly be said that the strictest antiseptic precautions must be observed. DISEASES OF THE BRAIIST THAT MAY CALL FOR SURGICAL INTERFERENCE. Abscess in the brain is generally the result of a head- injury or of middle ear disease, and when its situation can be localized with a fair amount of probability im- peratively calls for surgical interference. Bee Intracranial Suppuration and Complications of Middle Ear Disease. The tumours and new growths in the brain suitable for operation are gliomata and psammomata, localized tuber- cular lesions, syphilitic scars which drugs cannot absorb, scar-tissue and cystic formations following injury, and parasitic cysts. Sarcomatous and carcinomatous growths are usually too extensive for removal, or are multiple from the first. Moreover since they have no capsule they are not sufficiently distinguishable from the surrounding brain substance to ensure their complete excision and their non- return in the scar. The chief signs of a cerebral tumour are vomiting, persistent headache, optic neuritis, localized spasms or paralysis, and epileptiform convulsions, the convulsive seizures usually starting at the part connected with the cortical area involved in the growth [Jacksonian Upilepsy). Among the symptoms that may enable the Surgeon to localize the growth are the following (Figs. 178 and 179) :—1. If at the beginning of the epileptiform fit there is—(a) pain, peculiar sensation, flexion, or hyper- extension of the great toe, a lesion of the leg area on the opposite side of the cortex about the upper end of the fis- sure of Eolando close to the middle line is indicated; (h) movements of the shoulder, a lesion near the upper part and rather in front of the fissure; (c) flexion of the thumb, a lesion about the genu of the fissure; (d) turning of the head and eyes to the opposite side, a lesion about the hinder portion of the superior and middle frontal convo-