362 sinus or middle meningeal artery, in wliicli case blood may be found mixed with the cerebro-spinal fluid that escapes from the ear. Fracture of the posterior fossa extends through the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and frequently through the petrous portions of the temporal bones. Fracture of the anterior fossa inyolyes the roof of the orbit and nose. One or more of the nerves that escape through the bony foramina in the base of the skull, the lateral sinus, the middle meningeal artery, or one of the smaller blood-channels are frequently torn or otherwise injured in a fracture of the base; whilst the inferior lobes of the brain are often extensively lacerated and contused, or compressed by extravasated blood. It should be remembered that a fracture of the base, if the membrana tympani or the mucous membrane covering the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone is ruptured is really of the nature of a compound fracture, and hence is liable to be followed by septic inflammation which, moreover, may spread to the membranes and brain. Signs,—At times there may be none, and the nature of the injury may be quite overlooked. Generally, however symptoms, such as compression, indicative of a severe lesion of the brain co-exist, and these, together with the history of the way in which the injury occurred, should lead us to suspect that the base is fractured. The signs however, which when present may be considered diagnos- tic of the injury are—1. The escape of cerebro-spina fluid from the ear, nose, or mouth, or from a wound i one exists. 2. The escape of blood from similar situations 3. Effusion of blood under the conjunctiva, about th mastoid process, or in the sub-occipital region; and 4 Injury of one or more of the cranial nerves. 1. Cerebro-spinal fluid consists principally of water holding in solution a large amount of chloride of sodium. It has a low specific gravity (1002), and contains little or no albumen, but sometimes a trace of sugar. When it escapes in considerable quantities (several pints in the twenty-four hours) immediately after an injury, it is pathognomonic of fracture of the base. Escaping from the ear, it indicates fracture of the middle or posterior fossa; from the nose or mouth, generally the anterior fossa, though in fracture of the middle or posterior fossa it may, by passing along the Eustachian tube, or through a fracture of the basilar process with laceration of the