497 TREATMENT OF POTT'S FEACTUEE. internal malleolus projects prominently under the skin, and crepitus can be easily obtained. There is also marked hacJcward displacement of the foot. Treatment.—In uncomplicated fractures of the tibia or fibula alone, the leg may be placed at once in plaster-of- Paris splints, and the patient, after a few days' rest in bed, allowed to get abbut on crutches. Where there is much swelling, the leg had better be placed for a few days on a back-splint to allow the swelling to subside before the plaster of Paris is applied. In simple fracture of both bones, where the line of fracture is transverse and there is but little swelling or displacement, the same treat- ment may often be adopted with advantage. But greater care and watchfulness will be necessary to prevent any untoward accident. Indeed, whenever this method of treating fractures is used, the precautions mentioned at page 180 should be taken. When there is any dis- placement, however, the fracture must be reduced by making traction upon the foot whilst the thigh is steadied by an assistant, taking special care to correct the eversion, so frequently present, of the lower fragment. You will know when this has been done by the inner side of the pa- tella, the internal malleolus, and the inner side of the great toe being in the same line. Further, you should not, as a rule, rest satisfied as long as any irregularity can be felt on drawing your finger down the crest of the tibia, or as long as any marked difference is apparent on comparing the fractured with the sound leg. If any difficulty is experienced, give chloroform, and if necessary, cut the tendo Achillis. Having reduced the fracture, secure the foot and leg on a splint. Whatever form of the various splints for the purpose is adopted, take care1, that the foot is at right angles to the leg; 2, that the ball of the toes and the heel touch the foot-piece of the splint; 3, that the foot is square with the foot-piece ; and 4, that the back of the heel is kept from contact with the splint by a small pad placed under the tendo Achillis just above the heel. The iron splint and cradle, shown in Fig. 173, is - almost invariably employed by the whole of the surgical staff at St. Bartholomew's Hospital for ordinary fractures of the tibia and fibula and with the most satisfactory results. In applying the splint, which should reach as high as the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh and should be well padded and shaped to the limb, the foot is first secured to the foot-piece by strapping w. K K