105 ■PROCESS OF REPAIR IN WOUNDS. to be produced by loops growing out from the old capillaries, and uniting with, others similarly produced, and growing out from the capillaries on the opposite side. This vascularization of the unitiDg layer of cells accounts for the redness of the cicatricial line, and for the slight . haemorrhage which now occurs if the edges of the wound be drawn forcibly apart. As the capillary circulation is established the edges of the wound become pale from the collateral vessels being now no longer overcharged. The granulation-tissue thus formed is at length developed into fibrous tissue, which, like all new fibrous tissue, contracts, obliterating many of the newly-formed vessels. Hence the gradual paling of the cicatrix which now becomes practically non-vascular. Healing by the first intention may be prevented by— 1. Much contusion of the edges of the wound, with con- sequent death of the tissues bounding the incision; 2. The presence of a foreign body in the wound; 3. A greatly lowered vitality of the tissues, as from broken health, abuse of alcohol, bad hygienic surroundings, bruising of the parts, rough sponging, or use of too strong anti- septics; 4. The parts not being kept at rest, with the surfaces of the wound in accurate apposition; 5. Inefficient drainage whereby the serum squeezed out from the coagulating material is allowed to collect in the wound and cause tension; 6. Neglect of antiseptic precautions and consequent decomposition of the serum or the infec- tion of the wound by some of the specific micro-organisms. Under any of the above circumstances the inflammation may be kept up, the pyogenic micrococci may gain a footing, further infiltration of leucocytes and i^rolifera- tion of tissue elements take place, the small-cell-exuda- tion uniting the wound breaks down into pus, the flaps separate, and suppuration is established. Supposing the cause of the inflammation to be now removed, healing by the second intention will ensue. 2. Healing hy the second intention,—New vessels grow out among the layers of small round cells forming the exposed surface of the wound, and granulation-tissue is thus formed (Fig. 23). The growth of granulations, other things being equal, exceeds the breaking down of the superficial layers of cells into pus, and the wound is gradually filled up. Epithelium derived from the old epithelium at the edges of the wound gradually spreads I over the surface of the granulations ; but new sweat and