INFLAMMATION. caused by insufficient or improper food and air, a feeble action of the heart, haemorrhage, anaemia, and the.like. 2. The presence of impurities or of certain poisons in the blood, such as exist in chronic alcoholism, Bright's disease, diabetes, gout, syphilis, and in lead, mercury and phosphorus poisoning. 3. Deprivation of healthy nerve influence, as from disease or injury of a nerve centre, or nerve trunk. 4. Old age. 5. The so-called strumous diathesis. The exciting causes^ which are usually spoken of as irritants, may be considered under the following heads:— 1. Direct violence and chemical irritation. 2. The chemical products of putrefaction. 3. Infective micro- organisms. The last, however, most likely also act by their chemical products (ptomaines). 1. Direct violence and chemical irritation.—Under this head are included all forms of mechanical injury; excessive heat or cold; electrical stimulation; the applica- tion of strong acids or alkalies, or of irritating products, as croton-oil or mustard; friction, and tension. The fore- going are regarded, as here, by the majority of Surgeons as exciting causes. By the extreme supporters of the germ theory, however, they are merely considered as pre- disposing causes, the exciting cause according to these pathologists being in every case the presence of micro- organisms. The character of this work will not permit of the discussion of the arguments for and against such a view, and it must here suffice to say that the results of experiments seem clearly to show that inflammation can be produced by mechanical or other violence or chemical irritation without the intervention of micro-organisms, although it must be admitted that injuries which are in themselves inadequate to produce inflammation acquire that power when micro-organisms are present in the system. 2. The chemical ^products of putrefaction would appear to play an important part in the causation of inflammation. For fermentation or putrefaction (or sepsis as it is often called) to occur, there must be dead animal matter, a sufficiency of water and oxygen, the maintenance of a certain temperature, and the presence of a ferment. This ferment consists of living microscopic organisms, species of schizomycetes or bacteria known as saprophytes, which exist in large numbers in the air, water, &c., in short everywhere, except in mid-ocean and above the snow line