DISEASES OF REGIONS. 742 This, as in the acute variety, is due to the stretching of the inflamed mucous membrane as soon as a few ounces of urine collect. The pain usually ceases immediately the bladder is relieved. The urine is characteristic; it generally contains large quantities of ropy mucus and pus, which form, on standing, a distinct layer at the bottom of the containing vessel. It is often alkaline, and sometimes highly ammoniacal and offensive from the decomposition of the urea into carbonate of ammonia. This decomposition is brought about by fermentation, probably set up by the presence of micro-organisms [micrococcus urece) that have gained admission either by the use of a contaminated catheter, or by making their way along the stringy mucus that may hang about the urethra. Pathology.—The mucous membrane is thick- ened, velvety, mottled with patches of a dark slate, or red colour, and may be covered with muco-pus and sometimes with a deposit of phosphates, or it may even, in places, be destroyed by ulceration. The muscular coat, where there has been obstruction to the outflow, becomes thick- ened and fasciculated, the hypertrophied fibres giving the interior of the bladder a columnar and rugose appear- ance. In places the mucous membrane may protrude between the fasciculi of the muscular coat forming sacculi which may become receptacles for urine, and in which calculi may form. If the cystitis is allowed to con- tinue the kidneys may subsequently become affected. Treatment.—As in the acute form the cause, as stric- ture, stone, &c., must first be removed, as where this is impracticable the treatment at best can only be pallia- tive. The diet should be unstimulating, and alcohol in any form, as a rule, forbidden. A purely milk diet is at times most successful. Internally, such medicines as buchu, uva ursi, balsam of copaiva, salol and chlorate of potash should be given where thick ropy mucus is passed with the urine; and benzoic acid, which in its passage through the system is converted into hippuric acid, may be tried when the urine is alkaline. Locally, the bladder should be washed out twice a day with some antiseptic solution, as boric acid, nitric acid, corrosive sublimate, quinine, &c. The best results are sometimes obtained from water as hot as can be borne. Great care should be taken that all instruments are rendered thoroughly aseptic before use. In se^vere cases, where other means have failed, the bladder should be placed