245 TUMOtTBS OF BOKE. •as they are so hard that no ordinary saw will cut througlfi them, and the skull has been fractured in attempts to remove them with the chisel. If causing great incon- venience, however, it is probable that they might be safely removed by the rapidly revolving saw of the surgical engine. Diffuse osseous tumours occur in connection with the bones of the face, often filling up the antrum, occluding the nasal chambers, and producing much deformity. They are composed of finely-cancellated bone, and are more compact than the cancel- lous exostoses, but less compact than the ivory. Their slow growth, extreme and uniform hardness, and irregular nodu- lated surface will serve to dis- tinguish them from sarcomata undergoing ossification. There is usually little or nothing that can be done in the way of treat- ment. The superior maxillary bone, however, has at times been removed when the growth has been confined to it alone. Enchondromata oe, carti- LAeiNOUS TUMOUES.—The gene- ral and microscopical characters pici, Cartilaginous of these growths have already tumours of the bones been described under Tumours of the hand. (From (p. 76). In the bones they are Druitt's Surgery.) most frequently met with in the fingers (Fig. 61) and the ends of the long* bones. In the fingers, where they are generally multiple and often con- genital, they usually begin in the interior of the ends of the phalanges or metacarpal bones, and as they increase in size, expand the bone around them into a thin shell, which may finally give way, allowing them to protrude. When growing from the articular ends of long bones, they gene- rally spring from the periosteum, and thence grow both outwards and inwards, but seldom involve the articular surface. They are thought by some to possibly arise from the epiphysial cartilage, especially as they are most often met with in the young. They should not be confounded with sarcomata, in which considerable masses of cartilage are frequently developed, or with the exostoses, which