TREATMENT OE STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 777 doubt the simplest and safest, and is the one that in the large majority of cases should be used. Where, however, time is an object, or the stricture cannot be dilated by the slow metht)d beyond the size of a No. 4 or 5 catheter, or severe constitutional or local symptoms are set up on each occasion that a catheter is passed, rapid dilatation may be tried. Where again the continual presence of a catheter in the urethra cannot be borne on account of the local irritation which it causes, or the stricture is resilient and rapidly recontracts after it has been fully dilated, internal urethrotomy or electrolysis may be practised, especially if the stricture is in the penile portion of the urethra. Further, when the stricture is of cartilaginous consistency, and will not yield to dilatation, or the peri- neum, in addition, is riddled with sinuses, external ure- throtomy by Syme's or Wheelhouse's method may be performed. Lastly, when after persistent attempts, it is found that an instrument cannot be passed through the stricture, electrolysis may be attempted, or external urethrotomy by Wheelhouse's method may be under- taken. When the symptoms are urgent, as from retention or extravasation of urine, other measures may be required. See Retention and Extravasation of Urine (pp. 791 and 787). Forcible dilatation or splitting does not commend itself to my judgment, and should not in my opinion be em- ployed. If a catheter will not pass on the first attempt it must not at once be assumed that the stricture is impervious, as it may yield on a future occasion; but gentle and persevering attempts with fine catgut bougies, filiform bougies, French silk bougies, or whalebone bougies, should be made. The patient, presupposing there is no retention, may be asked to pass water, and, whilst the urine is flowing, and the stricture is in consequence dilated by the stream, a bougie one or two sizes smaller than the stream may sometimes be slipped in. If the point of a catheter is firmly grasped indicating that it is in the mouth of the stricture, gentle force may then be used to push it onwards. If in any of these ways a fine bougie can be got in it should not be removed till the patient is compelled to pass water, when a small catheter may be subsequently substituted for it, or a railway catheter slid over the bougie before the latter is removed. If after persevering attempts, even with the patient under the influence of chloroform, success is not attained, the