370 IlSrJURIES OF BEGioisrs. and its membranes, or in local inflammation and cerebral abscess. The symptoms are generally obscured by those of concussion or compression, and it is seldom that an accurate diagnosis can be made. Irritability, restlessness, and spasms of certain muscles, when a motor centre is injured, are said, however, to point to contusion. The chief indication for treatment is to prevent the occurrence of inflammation of the brain (see p. 360). Laceration oe the brain may occur with or without fracture or other injury of the skull. The laceration is most common in the anterior part of the frontal and in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, owing in part to the unevenness of the base of the skull on which these lobes rest, and in part to the fact that the back and the top of the head are most exposed to injury, the brain, as in contusion, being generally lacerated on the side of the head directly opposite to that on which the force is received, At times, however, the brain is lacerated directly beneath that part of the skull to which the force is applied. Laceration may also be caused by a fragment of bone, as in depressed or punctured fracture, or by the passage of a bullet or the thrust of a sword through the orbit or nose. Pathology.—The laceration may be slight or very ex- tensive, and is generally accompanied by more or less bruising of the surrounding brain-tissue and extravasation of blood over its surface. The pia mater is also lacerated, and where the injury is produced by a fragment of bone the dura mater is likewise torn, and in some cases, large portions of the lacerated brain may protrude through the skull. Inflammation of the brain and its membranes is liable to follow, and to assume a septic character, and spread widely if there is an external wound which has not been kept aseptic. Should the patient recover, cicatrization, with adhesion of the membranes, occurs, the extravasated blood in the meantime undergoing the changes already described. The symptoms vary. At times there may be none, although a considerable mass of brain tissue is protruding through a fracture in the skull. Or they may be obscured by signs: of concussion, or, if much blood has been ex- travasated, by those of compression. There are no signs pathognomonic of laceration of the brain, but convulsions, localized spasms or paralysis, long-continued insensibility without coma, and the collection of symptoms known as