DISEASES OE REGIONS 678 the sac and the skin, form what are called its coverings. We have to consider, therefore, 1, the sac, 2, its contents, and 3, its coverings. 1. The sac is said to consist of a body, neck and mouth, terms which sufficiently explain themselves. It is at first thin and membraneous, resembling the peritoneum ; but in old herniee may become thickened and indurated, or else, as for example in umbilical hernia, attenuated or in places absorbed. It is usually globular or pyriform, but may take almost any shape. Thus it may be fusiform, hour-glass-like, or divided by adhesions into two parts, the lower part, perhaps, containing fluid and forming what is known as a hydrocele of the sac. The neck is at first generally slightly puckered, but as the res alt of inflammatory consolidation becomes in old hernise smooth, thickened, and often indurated. The mouth may be wide and expanded, or, in the case of congenital hernise, in which the neck is frequently elongated, narrow and contracted. 2. The contents of the sac maybe intestine alone {enter o- cele); or omentum alone {epiplocele); or both, the omentum then generally descending in front of the intestine {entero- epiplocele), or more rarely the intestine in front of the omentum {epiplo-enterocele). In exceptional instances the bladder, the ovaries, and other of the abdominal or pelvic viscera, have been met with in the sac. The small intestine, and especially a portion of the lower three feet of the ileum, most frequently descends. When the large intestine descends it is generally the csecum; but any portion of the small or large may do so. There may be but a small knuckle of intestine in the sac, or a part only of its calibre; but when once a portion has escaped there is generally a tendency for more to follow, and in old hernise to the extent of several inches or even feet. The protruded intestine and mesentery in long-standing cases become hypervascular and thickened, and the omentum hypertrophied and matted together. A small quantity of serous fluid is also generally found in the sac, and in rare instances loose or attached fibrinous bodies somewhat similar to those met with in bursse. Where the neck of the sac has become obliterated by the long wearing of a truss, the sac has been found filled entirely with serous fluid, thus forming a cyst. 3. The coverings of the sac necessarily vary according to the situation of the hernia. They will be enumerated