CHROmC PURULENT CATARRH OF EAR. 515 white flakes, and finally the membrane distinctly bulges, when the effasion of fluid is great. The Eustachian tube is closed by swelling of its lining membrane. After some days, varying with the severity of the inflammation, resolution begins, or the fluid (mucus or pus) bursts through the membrane, and is discharged into the meatus. Treatment,—The patient should be confined to the house, or even to his bed, according to the severity of the attack. An aperient should be at once given, and an astringent gargle. If the pain is severe, a leech or two should be applied to the tragus. Cold compresses should as a rule be avoided, but hot fomentations are grateful to the patient and generally useful. The ear may also be gently syringed with warm water. If there be distinct bulging the membrane should be incised, especially if the pain persists. If there be any tenderness over the mastoid, this should also be leeched. After the severity of the symptoms has subsided, the tympanum should be inflated daily by means of the air-douche, and if the discharge continues, the ear syringed with a warm solution of boracic acid (1—40), night and morning, and a lotion of sulphate of zinc (gr. v. ad f^j')' equal parts of rectified spirit and water instilled; or after syringing with warm water and drying the meatus with absorbent wool, powdered boracic acid may be blown in. If the catarrh is non-purulent the mem- brane is rarely perforated ; and even if perforation occurs, the aperture speedily heals after the escape of the fluid. Inflation by means of Politzer's bag should be continued with decreasing frequency till the hearing is restored. Chronic purulent catarrh (popularly called Otorrhoea) follows the acute form of disease. After freeing the ear from discharge, the membrane appears thickened, yellowish from the presence of sodden epithelium, or if this has been removed, reddish in hue. In some part of it a perforation can usually be detected varying in size, the margins granular or clean cut. If large, the lining membrane of the tympanum can also be seen, varying in colour from pale pink to dark red, accord- ing to the degree of inflammation present. When very small and situated anteriorly the perforation sometimes cannot be seen, but its existence can be proved by inflating the tympanum and listening with the diagnostic tube. The amount of deafness present in chronic purulent catarrh varies greatly. There is rarely tinnitus, but giddiness is far from uncommon. It is in this form of L L :^