823 PISIlAgES OT THE plication of boro-glyceride may suffice. In very severe cases, the continuous warm bath has been found of gre^t gervice, DISEASES OE THE VAGIKA. Acute vaginitis is generally due to gonorrhoea, but may occur as the result of the use of strong injections, the introduction of foreign bodies, cold, and the exanthe- mata. It is attended with the signs of inflammation, and with a profuse, generally purulent, and sometimes blood- stained discharge. There is pain on urination and defse- cation, and tenesmus. The inflammation may spread to the uterus, and thence to the Fallopian tubes, or to the urethra and Bartholin's glands. Saline purgatives, rest, warm hip-baths, and cleansing the part with Condy's lotion, followed by astringent injections, is the proper treatment. Tumours of the vagina are rare, and require no special notice. Cysts of the vagina are occasionally, though rarely, met with as the result of the distension of the mucous follicles; and others are described as originating from remnants of the Wolffian duct, or from the dilatation of lymphatics. They should be treated by the excision of a portion of the cyst-wall, combined with cauterization. Yesico-vaginal fistula, when not due to malignant disease, are generally the result of sloughing, consequent upon the pressure of the child's head in a prolonged or I instrumental labour, though they may be occasionally produced in other ways, as from the impaction of a foreign body in the vagina or urethra, injury, &c. They give rise to incontinence of urine, and are productive of great inconvenience. They may be so small as merely to admit a probe, or nearly the whole of the anterior wall of the vagina may be destroyed. The common situation is just below the neck of the uterus. Treatment,—Where the fistula is very small, touching it with the actual cautery may succeed in closing it; but an operation is usually necessary. The rectum having been cleared by an enema, the patient should be placed in the lithotomy position, and i a duck-bill speculum introduced. The edges of the fistula I should then be pared, and brought together with silver- I wire or silk-worm gut suture. The sutures should be 1 placed sufficiently close to prevent the passage of urinQ