110 GENERAL PATHOLOGY OE INJUEIES. advantages and disadvantages, and are variously required in different cases. Thus, silver-wire is unirritating and perfectly non-absorbent, but causes pain on removal, and, as it is quite unyielding, is apt, from the swelling of the parts, to cause tension and inflammation if left in too long. Catgut is useful in that its deeper parts become absorbed, and therefore does not require removal. For this reason it is often inapplicable, as it gives way too soon. Catgut when chromicized resists absorption for many days, and forms an admirable suture. It is difficult, however, to ensure it being aseptic and is therefore abandoned completely by many surgeons. Horse-hair is non-absorbent, and is also non-absorbable; it has the additional advantage of being slightly yielding as well as sufficiently supporting. It is very useful when a delicate suture is required, as in wounds about the face. Silk forms a strong suture, but possesses the disadvantage of being absorbent and thus of becom- ing saturated with the discharges, _ ^ ^ . so that, if decomposition takes • 2^--\;onyenient ^ ^^11 irritant, needle-holder. , further, unless tied tightly, in which case it is apt to produce tension, it yields too much. At the present day, how- ever, fine silk or china twist is, on the whole, the favourite suture. Sutures may be made aseptic by boiling or by soaking for twenty-four hours in 1 in 500 perchloride of mercury solution. They should then be kept in absolute alcohol 3 parts and perchloride of mercury solution (1 in 200) 2 parts. The sutures are introduced by various forms of surgical needles, curved and straight, bayonet- spear- and probe- pointed (Fig. 24), the needle being conveniently passed by one of the many forms of needle-holder (Fig. 25). The methods of applying sutures are very numerous. The two chief forms of suture used in ordinary wounds are the interrupted, the suture being tied or twisted at each stitch and cut off short, and the continuous, one suture being used throughout without being cut. Among the special forms may be mentioned the twisted, the button, the quilled, the Lembert, the Jobert, and the Czerny, which are referred to under those wounds where they are specially indicated. The other methods of closing