DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 346 ought to be removed at once by the knife. The acid nitrate of mercury is highly spoken of as an application to verrucce necrogemcce. Clayus.—Corns consist of localized thickenings of the epidermis, and although they may occur on any part of the body that has been subjected to intermittent pressure, are most common on the feet, where they are produced by tight or badly-fitting boots, especially where high heels have been worn, and the weight of the body has thus been unnaturally thrown upon the toes. Two varieties are described, the hard, occurring on exposed parts, par- ticularly the dorsum of the toes, and the soft, situated between the toes, where in addition to pressure, the parts are subjected to moisture. A hard corn, on section, is seen to be more or less conical; and it is the pressure of the apex of this cone upon the papillary layer of the corium that causes the pain. At times a bursa is de- veloped beneath the corn. At other times suppuration occurs, and the pus being prevented from escaping by the hardened cuticle, gives rise to great tension, pain, and consequent inflamm.ation of the skin and sub- cutaneous tissue around, and may even terminate in ulceration, which may extend deeply into the foot. Treatment,—A hard corn should be pared down, and then painted night and morning with salicylic acid and col- lodion. In the meantime all pressure should be removed by means of a corn pad, or a hollow moulded in the leather of the boot. Soft corns should be allowed to become dry and hard by separating the toes with cotton- wool, and dusting them with a mixture of oxide of zinc and iodoform, or other form of astringent and antiseptic powder, and then treated in the same manner as hard corns. Should suppuration occur beneath a corn, an incision through it to evacuate the pus will give imme- diate relief. Chilblains are local congestions of the skin caused by exposure to cold and damp in young persons with a feeble circulation. They commonly occur on the fingers and toes; less frequently on the nose and ears. They present a sharply-defined, bluish-red blush of erythema, disappearing on pressure, and slowly returning. In severe cases the skin becomes dusky and purplish in colour, and the cuticle gives way, leaving a raw surface {Iro'ken chiMains). They are attended with intolerable itching. Treatment.—The general circulation should be