I^RIMAUY SYPHILIS. 5^ sore when inflamed may be attended with some inflam- matory induration, and hence may be mistaken for an infecting sore. This inflammatory induration, however, is diffused, and fades away into the surrounding parts; whereas the induration of an infecting sore feels as if a piece of cartilage or parchment had been inserted under the skin. Infecting chancres, though usually single, may be multiple if several spots are inoculated at the same time, all then appearing at the same stage of development; but when a primary chancre has once declared itself, showing that the system is impregnated with the poison, other chancres can no longer be produced by inoculation in the same patient. The duration of a primary chancre varies. It usually disappears quickly under the influence of mercury, but if untreated may last for many months. The lymphatic glands generally become enlarged about the same time as the induration of the primary sore, a con- dition known as indurated huho. Thus, if the chancre is on the genitals or about the anus, the inguinal glands are those affected; if on the finger, the epitrochlear or axillary; if on the lip, the submaxillary. They have a hard, shotty feel, remain distinct from each other, are not adherent to the skin, and do not, as a rule, suppurate. The induration is commonly greater in the inguinal glands than in those of other situations; but, at the same time, the enlargement is not so marked. The in- duration may subsequently affect all the glands of the body, especially the posterior chain in the neck. If the chancre is irritated or inoculated with pus from a soft chancre, or a soft chancre has formed simultaneously, then a suppurating huho may occur. Secondary syphilis.—The secondary symptoms con- sist of certain affections of the skin and mucous mem- branes, general enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and more rarely of inflammation of such deeper structures as the iris and periosteum. They generally set in from six weeks to six months after the appearance of the primary sore. They may assume a very severe, or a very mild form, or they may not occur at all, or may be so slight as to be overlooked. The skin eruptions may take various forms. The earliest to appear is usually a roseolous rash over the chest and abdomen. It is generally accompanied by a congested condition of the mucous membrane of the fauces, giving rise to a slight sore-throat. This rash is produced merely