6 GENEIIAL PATHOLOGY OF SURGICAL DISEASES. tissues have become irreparably damaged, if tlie cause of the inflammation ceases to act, tbe process may terminate and the part resume its normal conditions, when resolution is said to occur. Failing this, however, the following terminations may ensue. Thus, under favourable cir- cumstances, the cells constituting the inflammatory new formation may gradually become converted into fibrous tissue, producing the condition already referred to of fibroid tliiclmiing or scarring. Under less favourable circumstances the intercellular substance in the centre of the mass of closely-packed cells liquefies ; and the cells, cut oft from their nutrient supply by the compression and thrombosis of the capillaries, undergo degeneration and die, and are then known as pus cells, whilst the liquefied tissues and exuded serum form a fluid {liquor puris) in which they are contained. Thus pus is formed, and suppuration is said to be established. When these changes occur on the surface of the skin or mucous membrane, so that the products escape externally, the process, though essentially similar to that of suppuration, is spoken of as ulceration. And lastly, the infiltrated tissues in the centre of the inflamed area may lose their vitality and die en masse, before infiltration with leucocytes and serum has gone on sufficiently long to produce their softening; mortification or gangrene is then said to result. Causes of inflammation.—The direct cause of the inflammatory phenomena is thought to be some mole- cular chaDge in the vessel-walls whereby they are rendered capable of behaving towards the blood more or less like dead matter, thus promoting a tendency to stasis and coagulation and the escape of leucocytes and serum in abnormal quantities. This molecular change in the vessel-walls, may be brought about by some influence acting upon them, 1, from within, through the blood; and 2, from without, either directly upon the vessel- walls themselves, or indirectly through the intervention of the contiguous tissues. Irritants acting in either of these ways may be looked upon as exciting causes, and would appear in some instances to be alone sufficient to set up the process. In other cases, however, certain prior conditions such as may be considered to lower the vitality of the tissues, and to render them less able to resist dele- terious influences, appear necessary to render such irri- tants operative. Among such predtsposirig causes may be mentioned:—1. A deficient supply of healthy blood