mJURIES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 180 than by any verbal description. The points that should be chiefly attended to are:—1. The splints should be well padded. 2. Pressure should not be made over points of bone. 3. Strapping or bandages should not be put on too tightly. 4. Circular constriction of the limb should be avoided. 5. The splints where possible should reach beyond both the joint above and the joint below the fracture. 6. The fracture should not, as a rule, be covered with the bandage. 7. The patient should be seen within twenty-four hours after the splints have been applied, as swelling of the part is apt to occur, and the bandages thus become too tight. 8. The part having once been properly secured in splints, should not need- lessly be disturbed. 9. Should the fragments become displaced from spasm of the muscles, steady extension as by a stirrup, weight, and pully will usually over- come the difficulty. 10. The part below the fracture may sometimes be bandaged with advantage to prevent oedema. The time the splints should be kept on varies greatly, and will be stated under each individual fracture. On their removal the limb should be kept at rest for some time longer in a plaster-of-Paris, gum and chalk, or other form of stiff bandage till complete consolidation has taken place. At some hospitals the fracture, if not severe, is placed at once in a plaster-of-Paris bandage or plaster-of-Paris splints [Bavarian splints). If this or other similar material is used, the limb should be well padded with cotton-wool, the toes or fingers left exposed, the joints above and below included in the bandage, and the limb subsequently raised. The patient should be visited a few hours after the plaster of Paris has been applied, so that should the circulation have become im- peded from swelling of the limb, the plaster bandage may be removed before any serious damage has had time to ensue. The indications for at once removing, or for loosening the bandage by cutting it in places are*: 1, much pain; 2, swelling; 3, numbness; and 4, signs of obstructed circulation in the fingers or toes. A tight bandage, it should be remembered, is more dangerous in the upper than in the lower limb, because in the former most of the venous return is by the superficial veins. Should the bandage become loose, it must of course be removed and re-applied. 3. To promote the restoration of the normal functions of