HOTTtrUE or THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 411 ■followed by those of suppuration, and subsequently, by the signs of an abscess. In the chronic form there will probably be no constitutional signs; but a localized swell- ing, either superficial or deep, will generally be present in which fluctuation may be detected. Treatment.— Early and free evacuation of the pus. EuPTURE OF THE VISCERA.—The rupture of an abdo- minal viscus is always a most serious accident, and one which is frequently, though not invariably, fatal. Cause. —Grenerally a severe crush of the abdomen, as between the buffers of railway cars; or a kick or blow, or the passage of a wheel over the abdomen. Pathology.—Any of the viscera, except perhaps the pancreas, may be ruptured; but the liver, intestines, and bladder are those most frequently injured. In rupture of the liver and spleen severe haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, followed by peritonitis, ensues, unless the peritoneal covering escapes rupture, when no blood is extravasated. In rupture of the stomach, gall-bladder, and intestines their contents escape into the peritoneal cavity, setting up rapidly-fatal peritonitis, though in the case of the stomach and gall-bladder the more immediate danger is death from shock. Eupture of the intestine usually occurs where the duodenum joins the jejunum. The large intestine is rarely injured in consequence of its protected position. Eupture of the kidney is a less fatal accident, as the organ lies well behind the peritoneum; but when the crush is severe it may be attended with haemorrhage or peritonitis. It is liable to be followed by perinephritic abscess. For rupture of the bladder, see Injuries of Pelvis. The signs of a ruptured viscus are often obscure, but great shock, extreme collapse, and intense localized pain, together with the history of a severe crush of the abdo- men, point to such an injury having occurred. Beyond a surmise that one of the viscera has been injured, it may be quite impossible to localize the mischief. The following signs, however, may serve to indicate the probable nature of the lesion; thus—1. In rupture of the liver there may be pain in the right hypochondrium, perhaps a fracture of the ribs over the liver, symptoms of internal haemorrhage, increase of the hepatic dulness in consequence of blood extravasation, and later peritonitis, jaundice, and very occasionally diabetes. When the rupture is slight, or the peritoneal covering is not torn, the injury may remain unsuspected and the patient re-