728 DISEASES OE REGIONS. absence of febrile symptoms. Treatment.—Aspiration, unless the tumour is small and painless, when it may be left alone, should first be tried ; but if the fluid rapidly re-accumulates, nephrotomy will usually be required. Pyonephrosis is the distension of the pelvis and calicos of the kidney with pus, and the subsequent de- struction more or less complete of the medullary and cortical substance, the whole kidney being at length con- verted into a large multilocular cyst. This cyst may rapture into the peritoneal cavity or colon, or into the surrounding tissue, causing a perinephritic abscess. Causes.—It may follow pyelitis, owing to the blocking of the ureter with a clot of blood or pus; or it may be engrafted on hydronephrosis consequent upon tapping or injury. At times it may be the result of tubercle, or of a direct injury of the kidney. Symptoms.—In addition to a tumour, in the abdomen with characters similar to those of hydronephrosis, there will be pain in. the tumour, especially on pressure, febrile disturbance, and if the obstruction of the ureter is incomplete, pus in the urine from time to time. Treatment.—Having aspirated the tumour, and discovered the presence of pus, nephro- tomy is generally indicated, especially if the tumour rapidly refills, and there is much pain or febrile disturb- ance, or rupture of the cyst appears imminent. If after nephrotomy, however, the cyst does not shrink and cease to suppurate, nephrectomy must be done, as otherwise lardaceous disease or hectic may carry off the patient, or blood-poisoning may ensue from the discharge becoming septic, or, as sometimes happens when the obstruction of the ureter is relieved to some extent by the nephro- tomy, the decomposing pus may make its way into the bladder, set up cystitis, and the other kidney become affected. Under some circumstances, as where the kidney is reduced to little more than a shell, it will be better at once to perform nephrectomy. Eenal calculi generally consist of uric acid or of oxalate of lime, and are formed by the deposit of the urinary salts, either in the tubules or calicos of the kidney. Whilst still small, they may pass down the ureter into the bladder, and subsequently form the nucleus of a vesical calculus, or be voided with the urine. Or they may remain in the kidney, either in its substance, or in the pelvis or one of the calicos, and there increase in size by the successive deposit upon them of the urinary