PRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 493 ment as nearly as may be into contact with the lower. Various forms of apparatus are employed for this purpose, amongst which may be mentioned Manning's, Hamilton's and Steayenson's splints, Malgaigne's hooks (Fig. 168), and Mayo Eobson's pins (Fig. 170). But plaster of Paris apj)lied in the way above described, after the fragments have been as much as possible approximated by strips of strapping, is one of the best methods that can be adopted. On the removal of whatever apparatus is used at the end of six weeks or two months, a leathern knee-cap, to prevent flexion, must be worn from three to six months, and sub- sequently an apparatus to partially limit flexion for two or three years, as otherwise there is a great tendency for the fibrous material uniting the fragments to become stretched, and the fragments to become widely separated. Manning^s splint.—A piece of webbing is taken the length of the leg, and is first secured to the back of the thigh by a dozen or so strips of strapping, which have been pre- viously sewn to the webbing, the lowest strip being an inch or two from the patella. The whole limb is then placed on a back splint with a foot-piece, the leg and foot being firmly bandaged to it below, and the thigh lightly to it above. The free end of the webbing band having first been brought out through the slit in the splint midway between the knee and the ankle (see Fig. 169), is now drawn down towards the foot outside the splint, and sewn over a piece of stick, which is secured to the foot-piece by an india-rubber ring (a) on each side. Thus elastic tension is continually exerted upon the upper fragment, and so draws it down towards the lower. Mayo Rohson^s Method.—A strong steel pin is passed through the ligamentum patellae outside the knee joint; the skin is then drawn down over the patella, and another pin passed through the tendon of the quadriceps also out- side the joint. The two pins and with them the frag- ments of the patella are then drawn together by a figure- of-eight suture on each side, so as to bring the fractured surfaces into apposition. An antiseptic dressing is applied and the pins allowed to remain in situ for a month (see Fig. 170). Aspiration of the joint. Wiring of the fragments.—With the object of obtaining firm fibrous or bony union, some Surgeons, where there is much distension of the joint, draw oft the blood or serum with the aspirator; and others lay the joint freely open and wire the fragments of