847 WBY-KECK OH TORO^ICOLLIS. of the nervous system; 2, malposition in titero; or, 3, injury at birth, as, for example, rupture of the sterno- mastoid in a breech presentation. The acquired form is due to—1, the head having been held for a long time in the distorted position as a consequence of stifi neck following cold, injury, or inflamed cervical glands; 2, hysteria; or, 3, spasm set up by irritation of the spinal accessory nerve consequent upon central nerve-trouble. Signs.—The head, supposing the right sterno-mastoid to be ai^ected, is drawn forwards and towards the right shoulder and also rotated, so that the chin points to the left. The right mastoid is prominent, the right side of the neck concave, and the left convex. In long- standing cases some lateral curva- ture of the dorsal spine is generally acquired. The congenital form may be distinguished from the spasmodic not only by its history but by the sterno-mastoid becoming tense in the former, and yielding in the latter, on attempting to straighten the head. The hysterical variety will be known by the presence of other signs of hysteria. Treatment.—In congenital tury- neck, unless the patient is treated by position while still an infant, division of the sterno-mastoid is generally required, followed by a course of systematic exercises in the slighter cases, and the use of some such instrument as that shown in Fig. 324, m the more severe. The sterno-mastoid is best divided im- mediately above the clavicle, as here it is furthest removed from the important structures that lie beneath it. A puncture should be made at the inner side of the tendon, a director passed behind it, and the division made towards the skin with a blunt-pointed tenotome. The tense bands of cojntracted cervical fascia which now start forward will yield to stretching; it is not safe to divide them. The puncture should be given three or four days to heal before the exercises are begun or the instrument is applied. Some advise the division of the muscle about the middle on the plea that such is a more safe procedure; Fig. 324. —Wry-neck apparatus.