775 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. stricture, and the annoyance of finding that when the catheter has been passed it is choked and urine will not flow through it. 2. Warm and oil the instrument; a cold catheter is unpleasant to the patient and tends to produce spasm; an unoiled catheter does not glide easily along the urethra. 3. Place the patient in the recumbent position if instrumentation is to be practised for the first time lest faintness be produced. In old-standing cases, where the urethra is callous, the patient may stand with his back against a wall. 4. Pass the instrument with the greatest gentleness and use no force. The difficulties that may he met with in ^passing an instru- ment are : 1. The point may catch in a lacuna or fold of mucous membrane. This is best ayoided by keeping the point at first on the floor of the urethra. 2. It may hitch where the urethra passes through the triangular ligament. Should it do so, withdraw it a little, and direct the point against the roof of the urethra. 3. It may enter a false passage. This may be known to have occurred (a) by the handle being deflected from the middle line, [h) by the catheter being felt to be out of the right passage by the finger in the rectum, (c) by free bleeding if the false passage is recent, (c?) by no urine escaping, (e) by the point not moving freely as it does when in the bladder. The formation of a false passage may be prevented by using no force; and entering an old one may be avoided by using a silver catheter and directing its point along the wall of the urethra opposite to that in which the opening into the false passage is situated. The local and constitutional effects that occasionally folloiu the introduction of instruments,—Among the local effects may be mentioned—1, haemorrhage; 2, false passage; 3, abscess ; 4, extravasation of urine, and 5, inflammation of the prostate, testicle or bladder. Among the con- stitutional effects—1, syncope ; 2, rigors ; 3, urethral fever; 4, suppression of urine; and 5, pyaemia. Local effects— 1. Haemorrhage may be due to laceration of the mucous membrane of the urethra by the careless passage of the instrument, or to congestion of the urethra in the neigh- bourhood of the stricture; in either of these cases the blood may flow on the removal of the catheter, the point of which, moreover, will be blood-stained. Haemorrhage, however, may come from the kidney consequent upon reflex congestion due to the irritation of the neck of the bladder by the catheter. The blood will then only appear