PYJ5MIA. 161 and various tissues and organs. The body is emaciated, and the skin yellowish and earthy in appearance. The purulent collections may be found in the serous cavities, in the viscera, in the joints and indeed throughout the body generally. There may be one or more moderate- sized collections of pus; or an organ, as the lung, may be riddled by a number of small abscesses varying in size from a pea to a nut. The visceral abscesses are most common in the lungs, then in the liver, and next in the spleen, kidneys and brain. They are situated in the periphery of the organs, i.e., in the situation of the smallest capillaries. Where, however, pysemia follows a lesion of the rectum, the abscesses are generally found in the liver, since most of the blood from the rectum passes first through that organ. The pus is sweet, rarely foetid, and may resemble ordinary pus, or it may be thin and watery. It always contains pyogenic micrococci. When there is a wound it is usually found unhealthy or putrescent, and sur- rounded by an inflammatory area; micrococci are present in it. The veins leading from the wound are usually filled with thrombi, which are generally, though not invariably, un- dergoing purulent softening, and then contain micrococci. Where the pygemia has originated in infective osteomye- litis, infective periostitis, or in a wound involving bone, the veins in the medulla of the bone, and those leading from the bone are usually also found filled with purulent thrombi. If the affected veins are followed towards the heart, the end of the thrombus will often be seen projecting into the blood-current in the larger vein at the spot where the smaller joins it (Fig. 37.) Lastly, coccus colonies, i.e., collections of micrococci, are found m the various tissues and organs. A consideration of the above morbid appearances makes it appear probable that the metastatic abscesses may be produced in several ways: 1. Thrombosis of the veins leading from the wound is set up by one or more of the conditions that commonly produce thrombosis, such as suppuration around a vein, an abscess breaking into a Fia. 37.—Throm- bosed vein. The thrombus is seen projecting from the smaller into the larger vein. W.