FRACTUKE OF THE RIBS. 401 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. Injuries of the ChesUiualls, Contusions may be produced by any sort of violence applied to the cbest, and may be attended with, laceration or rupture of the muscles, or with extravasation of blood into the tissues, which, again, may be followed by sup- puration and abscess. They owe their chief importance, however, to the fact that they may be complicated by serious injury to the contained viscera, such as contusion or laceration of the pleura, lung, heart, or pericardium, or rupture of a large vessel in the mediastina. Fracture of the ribs is a very common accident. Cause.—Generally external violence, rarely muscular action. 1. External violence may be—(a) Direct^ such as the kick of a horse, a fall upon the edge of a table, &c. The fracture then occurs at the seat of injury, the frag- ments being driven inwards, occasionally injuring the thoracic, or more rarely, the abdominal viscera; or (h) Indirect, as a severe compression of the chest in a crowd. The fracture then generally occurs about the angle of the ribs, their weakest part, and several bones are usually broken. 2. Muscular action.—The ribs are sometimes broken in this way during violent coughing, or from straining during parturition. Complication.—Fractures of the ribs may be complicated by an external wound; a wound of the pleura and lung, or pericardium and heart; laceration of a blood-vessel, as an intercostal artery ; penetration of the diaphragm; and more rarely by perforation of the peritoneum, and wound of the liver or spleen. Hence they may be followed by emphysema, pneumothorax, haemothorax, hsemoptysis, hsemopericardium, and later by pleurisy, pneumonia, pericarditis, or peritonitis. State of the parts.—Fracture of the ribs is more common in the old than in the young, on account of the loss of elasticity as age advances. Like fractures of other bones, they may be simple, compound, or comminuted. The middle ribs are those usually affected; the first and second rib being protected by the clavicle, and the eleventh and twelfth being moveable, are not often broken. Fracture of the upper ribs is more serious than fracture of the lower, as the lung is more liable to bo wounded. w. D D