97 CYSTS—BETEKTION AND SEBOUS CYSTS. (2.) Mucous cysts are formed by tlie dilatation of mucous glands. They occur in the lips, mouth, labia, and other situations where mucous glands exist. In the mouth they constitute one form of raniila. The so-called dropsy of the antrum is generally believed to be due to the dila- tation of one of the mucous glands of the lining mem- brane of that cavity, and the cysts met with at the entrance of the vagina to a dilatation of Bartholin's glands. The walls of mucous cysts are thinner than those of the sebaceous variety; the contents are viscid, and mucoid in character, and cholesterine is at times present. Treatment.—Excision of a piece of the wall, and touching the interior with nitrate of silver or other caustic will generally cure them; if not the cyst must be dissected out. (3.) Cysts formed hy the dilatation of special ducts.— As examples of these may be mentioned, dilatation of Wharton's duct {ranula), of a lacteal duct (galactocele), and of a tubule of the testicle (encysted hydrocele). For a further account, see Diseases of Eegions. C. Extravasation cysts are formed by extravasation of blood into closed cavities, as the tunica vaginalis of the testicle (hcematocele), &c. II. Cysts of New Formation, These are divided into—A. Serous cysts; B. Blood* cysts; C. Proliferous compound cysts; and D. Parasitic cysts. ^ A. Serous or simple cysts are thin-walled cysts, lined with a single layer of endothelium, and containing a sticky serous Suid. They are supposed to be formed by the accumulation of fluid consequent upon irritation, pressure, &c., in the lymphatic spaces of the connective tissue, these spaces subsequently becoming fused into a single cavity. Their walls consist of fibrous tissue formed by the condensation of the surrounding connec- tive tissue by the pressure of the fluid. As examples of serous cysts may be mentioned:—adventitious bursee developed over prominences of bone, some forms of gan- glion, and simple cysts in the breast, neck, &c. By some pathologists, however, the serous cysts found in the neck are regarded as congenital formations. Those in the median line are undoubtedly formed by the enlargement of pre-existing bursse, e.g., those about the hyoid bone. W. H