DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES. 242 fied and then destroyed. The exact pathology of the process is not known, but it has been suggested that the decalcification of the bone is due to the action of lactic acid, which has been found both in the bone and the urine, or to excess of carbonic acid in the veins of the medulla, which are said in the early stages to be enlarged. The microscopical appearances lend some support to this view, as in a bone-trabecula (see Fig. 60) the decalcifica- tion is seen to begin around the Haversian canals and medullary spaces, the bone-corpuscles in these parts having entirely disappeared while in the centre of the trabecula they are still present. At times the gelatinous material is in places yellow and fatty-looking. In some of the specimens in St. Bartholomew's Hospital the medulla appears entirely filled with fatty material, but it . is a question whether these specimens, though called moUities ossium, are not of a different nature from the disease to which the term is gene'rally applied, and do not rather depend upon a senile change. Symptoms,—In the early stages the disease may be mistaken for rheumatism or neuralgia, as, beyond some general feeling of weakness with obscure pains in the bones, it is attended with no definite symptoms. Suddenly, however, fracture of some bone occurs, whilst others become bent and variously distorted without any or with but the slightest provocation. Thus the pelvis, thorax, spine, and extremities become misshapen and sometimes extraordinarily deformed. The pelvis is flattened from side to side, the symphysis pubis projects in the form of a beak giving a rostrated appearance to the pelvic inlet, whilst the tuberosities are approximated and the pubic arch is diminished in width. Thus, parturition is rendered difii- cult if not impossible. The condition of the urine is an important element in the diagnosis, a peculiar form of albumen and abnormal quantities of phosphates and lactic acid being found in it. The disease progresses and the patient generally dies of exhaustion, or during parturition, or of dyspnoea consequent upon respiratory trouble in- duced by the weakened ribs. In a few cases recovery has taken place. Treatment.—No remedy is at present known for the disease. The strength must be supported by tonics and abundance of nourishing food, pain must be relieved by opium, and rest enjoined in order to prevent fracture. The patient should be warned of the danger of child-bear-