707 OBTURATOR HERNIA. the wound sewn up with deep sutures with two peritoneal surfaces in contact. Eadical cure is occasionally called for when a truss fails to keep up the hernia and strangu- lation or obstruction is frequently occurring. An obturator hernia is one that escapes through the obturator canal, i.e., the aperture left in the obturator membrane for the passage of the obturator nerve and yessels. The neck of the sac is bounded by the horizontal ramus of the pubes above, and by the sharp edge of the obturator membrane elsewhere; whilst the fundus either protrudes the obturator externus in front of it, or passes above that muscle or between its fibres and comes into contact with the pectineus, giving rise to a slight fulness in the upper part of the thigh just below Poupart's liga- ment, immediately behind and internal to the femoral vessels. The coverings, therefore, are 1, skin; 2, super- ficial fascia ; 3, fascia lata; 4, pectineus; 5, fascia over the obturator externus; 6, obturator externus (some- times); 7, pelvic fascia; 8, subperitoneal fat; and, 9, peritoneum, forming the sac, which is always an acquired one. The relation of the obturator artery and nerve to the sac is variable. The hernia is always small, and generally consists of the lower portion of the ileum, often of only a portion of the calibre of the gut. Obturator hernia is rare; it is most often met with after the age of fifty, and then generally in women. It has not always been diagnosed during life, and is often accompanied by other hernise. Symptoms.—The chief of these, in addition to those of strangulation which has generally been present, are a slight fulness below and internal to the femoral vessels, perhaps not perceptible unless the two sides are compared; pain down the inner side of the thigh from pressure on the obturator nerve; pain on pressmg over the obturator foramen, and perhaps some increased resistance or swell- ing in this region; pain on rotating the thigh outwards from the obturator muscles, which are then put on the stretch, pressing on the hernia ; and pain and swelling in the region of the obturator membrane on examination by the rectum or vagina. From femoral hernia it may be known by the neck being below instead of above the ramus of the pubes ; and by the femoral ring: being free. Treatment.—The hernia has occasionally been reduced by the taxis, aided in one instance by the hand in the vagina. But this method is dangerous inasmuch as the z z 2