CONSTITUTIONAL AJ'I'ECTlONS 01^ BONE. 23? tions as syphilis or struma appear to take a part— Atrophy and Hypertrophy. Atrophy of bone is a common accompaniment of old age. It may also be produced by pressure and disuse. Thus it is seen in the bodies of the vertebrae from the pressure of an aneurysm of the aorta or a tumour in the mediastinum; in the bones of a limb from disuse, as in long-continued joint-disease, and in stumps after amputation. An atrophied bone is always decreased in weight, often in size ; and in some situations, as the neck of the femur, is liable to fracture on slight provocation. Atrophy is always attended with more or less fatty de- generation. Hypertrophy of bone is an overgrowth of bone which is due merely to an increase of nutrition and not to any inflammatory change. It is generally dependent upon excessive functional activity of the part, the bone in- creasing in size and strength commensurately with the hypertrophy of the muscles. It may also occur in asso- ciation with general hypertrophy of the tissues in the affection known as congenital hypertrophy. It must be distinguished from inflammatory thickening of bone, a condition to which the term hypertrophy is sometimes though incorrectly applied. 3. Constitutional Affections of Bone* Under this head are included Syphilitic and Tubercular affections of bone, Rickets, Scurvy-rickets, Mollities Ossium and Acromegaly. Syphilitic affections of bone are common both in acquired and congenital syphilis. In the former they generally occur during the tertiary stages of the affection, either as gummatous inflammations of the periosteum (nodes), or as chronic inflammatory thickenings or gum- matous infiltrations of the bone itself, leading to caries,' necrosis, or sclerosis. For a full account of the peculiarities in the above affections when due to syphilis the student is referred to a work on Pathology. The affections of the bones in congenital syphilis have already been briefly re- ferred to in the section on that subject (see page 67). Tubercle.—We have already seen that many of the nflammatory diseases of bone, especially some forms of rarefying osteitis or caries, are attributed to the presence ^nd degeneration of tubercle; and it has been pointed