INJURIES OF REGIOISrS. 462 signs are similar to those of dislocation of the carpus backwards. The following points will serve to distin- guish the two injuries :—In fracture, 1, the styloid process of the radius is on a higher plane than that of the ulna; 2, the distance from the internal condyle to the tip of the styloid process of the radius is less than on the sound side; 3, there is crepitus; 4, the deformity, when it can be reduced, has a tendency to return if the extending force is relaxed; and, 5, it is very common in the old, and occurs from slight^ causes. In dislocation, on the other hand, 1, the styloid process of the radius is on a lower plane than that of the ulna; 2, the distance from the internal condyle to the tip of the styloid process of the radius is the same as on the sound side; 3, there is no crepitus; 4, the de- formity when reduced has no tendency to return when the extending force is relaxed; and, 5, it is Fig. 144. -Colles Fracture. (St usually the result of great Bartholomews Hospital Museum.) violence, and more fre- quently occurs in the young than in the old. Treatment.—After reducing the fracture as thoroughly as possible apply two ordi- nary forearm splints, taking care that the anterior one does not reach beyond the heads of the metacarpal, bones, and place a pad beneath the wrist to restore the lost concavity of the front of the radius. Practise passive movements from the third day, as in this form of fracture the tendons, where they cross the back of the radius, the seat of fracture, are apt to become adherent to their grooves. This is the almost invariable method of treating Colles' fracture at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and is attended with excellent results. If preferred, Gordon's (Fig. 145), Carr's, Hawkins', or Bond's splints may be used. The pistol-shaped splint introduced by Nelaton, and justly condemned by Sir James Paget as so frequent a cause of stiff wrist and fingers, should on no account be used. Eemove the splints in about four weeks, and employ shampooing, friction with stimulating liniments, &c., till any stiffness of the joint or fingers that remains has disappeared. Separation of the lower epiphysis may occur in young subjects and resembles Colles' fracture.