356 mJURIES OF KEGIONS. Treatment,—When, from tlie account of the injury, it is probable that the bone has been contused, measures should be taken to prevent inflammation by rest, cold to the head, free purging, and, where there is a wound, by strict antiseptic precautions. Should suppuration be sus- pected between the pericranium and the bone, free inci- sions to let out the pus should at once be made; whilst should the signs point to the formation of pus between the bone and dura mater, the trephine should be applied. For suppuration in the diploe, and the consequent septi- caemia and pyaemia, little or nothing can be done. Fractures of the bones of the skull may be divided into—1. Fractures of the vault; and 2. Fractures of the base. 1. Fractures of the vault. — Causes. — Grenerally direct violence, as a blow on the head with a sharp- pointed body, or fall on a sharp edge. (Blows with soft bodies or falls on soft ground on the head more often cause a fracture of the base, or a fissured fracture extend- ing over the vault to the base.) Occasionally indirect violence, as a blow, say on the front of the head, causing a fracture at the back [fracture hy contrecoup). Varieties.—The fracture may take the form of a simple fissure {fissured fracture), or of several fissures radiating in various directions {stellate or radiated fracture) ; or the skull at the seat of injury may be broken into several pieces {comminuted fracture), one or more of which may be pressed inwards below the surface of the rest of the bone {depressed fracture); or a portion of bone in rare in- stances, as in some forms of sabre-wounds, may be raised above the surface of the skull {elevated fracture). At times the fracture consists of a mere puncture of the bone, with driving inwards into the membranes or brain of the sharp fragments of the inner table {punctured fracture); and, lastly, the fracture may be limited either to the outer or to the inner table of the skull {partial fracture). In any of these varieties, except, perhaps, in the punctured, the scalp may remain whole, when the fracture, as in other situations, is said to be simple ; or there may be a wound of the scalp leading to the fracture, when it is said to be compound. In children the bone may be depressed without fracture. State of the parts.—In simple fissure there is no displace- ment of the bone, but a mere crack extending from the part struck for a variable distance over the vault, and