STONE m THE BLADDER. 747 pure or they may be mixed. According to Sir Henry Thompson the nric acid and urates form one half of the number met with; the phosphatic one quarter; the mixed one quarter; and the oxalates only three per cent, of the whole. The uric acid and the oxalate of lime are generally formed on a nucleus of one of these substances which has descended from the kidney. The phosphatic is formed in the bladder itself, either on a nucleus of phosphates deposited on some insj)issated mucus or a foreign body, or on one of the other forms of stone which has descended from the kidney and which sooner or later acts as a foreign body. The oxalate of lime is the most slow of formation and is consequently the hardest and most compact. The phosphatic forms very rapidly, is soft and friable, and often of very large size. Sometimes alternate layers of uric acid, oxalate of lime, and phosphates, occur in the same stone {alternating calculus), a condition probably due to varying states of the patient's health, effects of medicines, bladder irrita- tion, &c. A description of the various forms of calculi is given in the section on Urinary Calculi (page 737). The character of the stone may to some extent be guessed at by the state of the urine. Thus if the urine is acid it will probably be either oxalate of lime or uric acid; if alkaline, phosphatic. Calculi vary in size from that of a hemp-seed to a large mass weighing many ounces; but large stones, at the present day, in conse- quence of improved diagnosis, and the diminished dread a patient has of an operation, are the exception. They generally occur singly, but there may be two, or even more; they are then usually facetted from rubbing against one another. Spontaneous fracture sometimes happens, and has been attributed: 1, to the swelling or chemical alteration of the cementing material with which the particles of the calculus are held together; 2, to two stones coming into collision; 3, to the compression of the calculi by the hypertrophied muscular coat of the bladder. The calculus may be variously situated in the bladder. It is usually free just behind the prostate, but it may be in the upper fundus behind the pubes, or in one of the sacculi so often found in long-standing disease of the bladder. Calculous matter may sometimes be deposited upon growths in the bladder or upon the ulcerated mucous membrane.