563 STOMATITIS. barb and magnesia, and locally borax and honey, are the usual remedies. ' Parasitic stomatitis, or thrusb, resembles the preceding, but depends upon the presence of a parasite known as the oidium albicans. It is generally merely symptomatic of other diseases, to the alleviation and cure of which the treatment should be directed. Ulcerative stomatitis is more serious, but is still, as a rule, superficial. It may depend upon digestive disturb- ance, local irritation of cutting teeth, or bad hygiene. The ulcers are covered with a grey slough, the gums are red and swollen, and the breath is foul. A stimulating plan of treatment is generally required, with attention to the digestive functions, hygienic surroundings, &c. Locally, the mouth should be rinsed out with a wash of chlorate of potash. Syphilitic stomatitis is common during the secondary and tertiary stages of syphilis, and requires no further mention. Mercurial stomatitis, depending upon an overdose of mercury, or some idiosyncrasy of the patient to the drug, is of less frequent occurrence in its severe forms than formerly. It is attended with foul breath, swollen tongue, spongy gums, profuse salivation, swelling of the parotid and submaxillary glands, and loosening of the teeth. It may terminate in gangrenous ulceration, with extensive destruction of the soft tissues, and perhaps necrosis of the bones. Chlorate of potash, both internally and as a mouth-wash, should be given; and the strength sup- ported by fluid nourishment and, if indicated, by stimu- lants. Gangrenous stomatitis or cancrum oris, is a phagedsenic ulceration, which begins on the inside of the cheek, and if not checked rapidly involves its whole thickness. It is very apt to terminate in blood-poisoning. It appears to depend upon thrombosis of the capillaries, a condition recently shown to be induced by the presence of a specific micro-organism. It is most frequently met with in under-fed, debilitated children recovering from one of the exanthemata, typhoid fever, &c., or subjected to bad hygienic conditions. A foul and black slough forms in the mouth, and a dusky patch soon appears on the surface of the cheek, which becomes hard and brawny, and then black. If the disease is not soon arrested, extensive sloughing occurs, typhoid symptoms set in, and the 0 0 2