96 GENEKAL PATHOLOGY OE SURGICAL DISEASES. Cystic bronclioceles, and Cysts in the ovary due to tlie dilatation of Graafian follicles. They will be further referred to under Diseases of Bursse, Ganglia, &c. B. Eetention cysts are formed by the retention of the normal secretion and the consequent dilatation of the ducts or acini of the affected gland. They are lined with epithelium ; their walls become thickened by fibroid changes; and the natural secretion is altered by inspissa- tion or by exudation from the cyst-wall. Three forms are described—1, atheromatous or sebaceous cysts due to the dilatation of the sebaceous glands; 2, mucous cysts formed by the dilatation of mucous glands ; and 3, cysts produced by the distension of special ducts, as the salivary, lacteal, hepatic, and renal ducts, and fubules of the testicle. (1.) Atheromatous or sebaceous cysts occur mostly on the scalp or face, but may be met with on any part of the body, and are often multiple. They do not contain hair- follicles, papillae, or other skin elements, thereby differing from the dermoid cysts which they otherwise resemble. Those on the scalp are sometimes hereditary. Signs.— They form smooth lens-shaped, semi-fluctuating, move- able swellings, often adherent to the skin. They may be distinguished from a fatty tumour by not slipping from under the finger on pressing the edge of the swelling, and from an abscess by the absence of signs of inflammation. A small black punctum, the obstructed orifice of the sebaceous follicle, may, moreover, be discovered on the surface. Secondary changes.—1. They may become in- flamed and break, down into an abscess. 2. One part may give way, and the sebaceous matter exude, become har- dened, and be pushed up from below, and take the form of a horny growth. 3. Granulations may spring up from the interior of the cyst, and exude as a fungating mass resembling an epithelioma. 4. They may degenerate into an epithelioma. 5. Their walls may undergo calcification. Treatment.—They may be removed by—(a) Dissection. (&) Splitting them, squeezing out the sebaceous matter, and seizing the cyst-wall with forceps and pulling it out. Care should be taken not to leave any of the wall behind, or a troublesome sinus will remain. (c) Dilating the orifice with a probe, and squeezing out the contents. They are apt, however, to refill when emptied in this way, unless the cyst-wall is also squeezed out or sufiicient in- flammation is set up to destroy it.