DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSXTES. 252 be substituted for the cold, with, liniments of belladonna and opium to assuage j)ain. Where there is much disten- sion and the synovial membrane threatens to give way, the joint should be aspirated and elastic pressure applied, or if suppuration occurs, laid freely open and drained antiseptically. Amputation may be called for should the patient's powers fail under the long-continued suppuration that at times ensues. Subacute synovitis.—The term subacute is applied to less severe cases of acute synovitis. But as one form of the disease differs from the other in degree rather than in kind, and as the causes, symptoms, and treatment are similar, no special description is required. Chronic synovitis.—Causes.—Similar to those of the acute form of which it is often a sequel. When occurring in strumous subjects, it probably nearly always depends on the presence of the tubercle bacillus, and will be described under tubercular disease of the joints> Pathology,—The synovial membrane is slightly thick- ened, and the synovial fluid increased in quantity; but there is little or no change in the cartilages or the other tissues, though, if the disease is neglected, it may run on to total disorganization of the joint. At times, the synovial membrane becomes greatly distended with clear serous fluid, a condition known as hydrops articuli, and in this state it may remain for years without any further change ensuing; or, after long periods, the synovial membrane may become thickened, and little masses of cartilage form in its hypertrophied fringes. In other instances pouch-like protrusions of the synovial mem- brane may extend along the muscles and other tissues, often to some distance from the joint, where they give rise to bursa-like swellings {Morrant Baker^s cysts). Signs.—The joint, as in the acute affection, is swollen, and the synovial membrane slightly thickened; but there is little or no heat, there may be no pain, and the skin is unaltered in appearance. The patient, however, com- plains that the joint feels weak and stiff on movement, but he does not suffer from starting-pains at nights. In hydrops articidi the synovial membrane is greatly dis- tended but not thickened, and save a sensation of weak- ness and want of security in the joint on walking, the affection gives no trouble. In what may be termed the bursal variety of chronic synovitis, in addition to the joint- affection, more or less tense fluctuating and translucent