118 GENEHAL 1>ATH0L0GY OF INJimlES. from tlie open in that they heal by adhesive inflammation without suppuration, since as long as the skin or mucous membrane covering the wounded part is unbroken, septic processes are effectually prevented. Moreover, they are attended by but little, if any, constitutional disturbance. They will be further described under Rupture of Muscles and Tendons, Simple Fractures, &c. Diseases of cicateices.—The cicatrices left on the healing of a wound are liable to certain affections which may be enumerated as :—1, painful cicatrix; 2, depressed or contracted cicatrix; 3, warty cicatrix; 4, thin cica- trices; 5, ulceration; 6, keloid; and 7, epithelioma, and more rarely sarcoma. See Ulceration, Tumours, &c. CONTUSIONS OE BEUISES. Contusions are subcutaneous injuries, occasioned by a crushing, pulping or tearing of the tissues, combined with extravasation of blood consequent upon the rupture of the capillaries and smaller vessels of the part. In their slighter forms they constitute the common injury known as a hruise. The effused blood generally makes its way in the connective-tissue planes towards the skin, giving rise to the characteristic purplish-black appear- ance, and, as it later breaks down and becomes absorbed, to a change of colours from bluish-black through dark red to yellowish-green. In severe cases the cuticle is raised into bullae by the effusion of blood-stained serum beneath it. These bullae, together with the black colour of the part, may occasion a close resemblance to gangrene, from which however a contusion may be distinguished by there being no loss of heat or of sensation in the part, and by the bullae being fixed, and not changing their position on pressure as in gangrene. In very severe and extensive contusions, however, the tissues may be so injured as to lose their vitality, and gangrene actually ensue; whilst in other instances inflammation and suppuration may occur. When the contusion is localized, blood to a con- siderable amount may be poured out at the injured spot, forming a fluctuating swelling known as a hcematoma. Contusions of muscle, bone, blood-vessels, and nerves, and contusions of the viscera, are considered separately under Injuries of Special Tissues and Organs. Treatment.—'Bejond placing the part at rest, and