FRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. 399 fourtli cervical vertebra, death is instantaneous in conse- quence of the severance of the phrenic nerves from the respiratory centre in the medulla. 2. In the lower cervical or upper dorsal region, death is due either to (a), hsemor- rhage in the cord gradually extending to the origin of the phrenic nerves, or (&), a low form of bronchitis induced partly by hypostatic congestion, partly by defective nerve- influence, and partly by inability to clear the lungs effectually by coughing. 3. Later, death is commonly due to exhaustion produced by (a), the sloughing of the bedsores, or (6), the pyelo-nephritis, induced in part by the extension of cystitis up the ureters to the kidney, and in part by the defective nerve-influence on the kidney structure. The prognosis will depend in great measure on the situation of the fracture and condition of the cord. Thus, when the fracture is in the cervical region, if death is not instantaneous, the patient may survive from twelve hours to two or three days; usually, however, death occurs in about twenty-four hours. In the upper dorsal region the patient may linger for two or three weeks. In the lower dorsal region, if he survive the period at which the inflammatory troubles commonly occur, he may recover, remaining, however, if the cord is severely injured, paraplegic. In the lumbar region he may recover, with perhaps only partial paralysis of one or other of the lower limbs or of a certain group of muscles, or even without any paralysis whatever. But even where the injury to the cord has been so high as to cause paralysis of the whole body below the neck, patients have been known in rare instances to live for several months or even years. Treatment.—1. In cases where there is no paralysis, thus showing that the cord is not affected, the indication is to keep the fractured spine at perfect rest, for the pur- pose not only of obtaining union of the fracture, but also of preventing by any movement displacement of the fragments and injury of the cord. 2. In the toore common cases, where there is paralysis, showing that the cord is injured, the indications are to remove any frag- ments that may be compressing the cord, and subse- quently to keep the parts at rest till union of the bones has occurred. 3. Where, however, as is too frequently the case, the removal of the fragments is not practicable, or the cord itself has been crushed, all that can be done is to endeavour to guard against the formation of bed-