532 DISEASES OF REGIONS. septic lotions and warm fomentations, and then tlie usual treatment for purulent conjunctivitis. 4. Grajnulae, conjunctiyitis [Traclioma) derives its name from the presence on the palpebral conjunctiva, especially near the fornix of the upper lid, of greyish raised bodies about the size of a pin's head. It may be acute or chronic, and is especially common in those sub- jected to bad hygienic surroundings; hence its frequency in insanitary schools, marshy districts, overcrowded camps, &c. The acute form is rare in England and is accompanied usually by a muco-purulent discharge which generally absorbs the granulations and so cures the disease. In the chronic form the symptoms are a heavy look of the lids, irritable eyes, and at times a muco- purulent discharge. The muco-purulent discharge de- pends more upon the condition of the conjunctiva than on the presence of the granulations. The disease is probably only contagious during the continuance of the discharge. The granulations often affect the submucous tissue, giving rise to scarring. Pathology.—There are two views as to the nature of the granules: 1. That they are due to hypertrophy of the lymph-follicles of the con- junctiva; and, 2, that they are new growths. The disease is believed by some to depend upon the presence of a specific micro-organism. It may be complicated by pannus, ulcers of the cornea, entropion, trichiasis, etc. Treatment.—In the acute form antiseptic lotions should be employed. In the chronic form, with muco-purulent discharge, paint the inside of the lids once a day with silver nitrate solution (grs. x. to §j.), and order an astringent lotion, as zinc sulphate (grs. ii. to §j.), to be dropped into the eye two or three times a day. If there is no discharge, touch the granulations lightly two or three times a week with a crystal of copper sulphate. During the discharge stage the patient should be isolated. 5. Phlyctenular conjunctiyitis is characterized by the presence on the ocular conjunctiva or on the anterior surface of the cornea of one or more papules or pustules surrounded by a limited vascular zone. It is extremely common in young children, especially if strumous. Photophobia or lid-spasm may be present. The treatment is chiefly dietetic with the local application of yellow mercuric oxide ointment. Pinguecula is a yellowish elevation, not containing fat.