DISEASES OF REGIOXS. 522 such as heavy artillery firing. 5. Great emotion; and 6. Continued use of large doses of quinine. The chief points of diagnostic value are :—1. The vibrating tuning-fork placed on the middle line of the head is heard less distinctly with the deaf ear, or if both ears be affected, is not heard at all or very indistinctly. 2. The tuning-fork when it has ceased to be heard through the cranial bones, can still be heard when placed opposite the meatus. 3. The tuning-fork when it has ceased to be heard by the patient, can still be heard by the Surgeon. 4. The patient hears the tick of the watch proportionately better than speech. 5. There is gene- rally nausea or vomiting, giddiness, and always tinnitus. None of these signs and symptoms when taken separately are of much value, but when taken together, they are strong presumptive evidence of mischief in the internal ear. Meistieee's disease is a sudden hsemorrhagic effusion into the labyrinth. The symptoms are very marked. The patient, whose hearing was perfect before the attack, is suddenly seized with intense tinnitus and giddiness, often so great as to cause him to fall. The giddiness is followed by nausea or actual vomiting, faintness, and cold sweats. On recovering somewhat, he finds he is deaf with one ear. The giddiness sooner or later passes off, but the tinnitus and deafness persist. If the deafness is absolute, the tinnitus may eventually disappear. Treatment.—Quinine, bromide of potassium, subcutaneous injection of pilocarpine, and electricity are recommended; but all treatment directed towards restoring the hearing is generally useless. Auditory vertigo is characterized " by a sensation of motion, referred by the patient either to himself, or to surrounding objects, which seem to revolve in certain defined planes" (McBride). The attacks are generally paroxysmal, bat often there is more or less constant giddiness, with occasional exacerbations. As may be seen above, auditory vertigo is a prominent symptom in Meniere's disease, but many causes may give rise to the symptom, such as (a) increased pressure on the secondary membranes of the tympanum induced by accumulations of wax in the meatus, forcible syringing, or retraction of the membrana tympani due to obstruction of the Eustachian tube; [h) fluid accumulations in the tympanic cavity; (c) vascular and nervous changes, or effusion and secondary formations in the labyrinth itself; [d) intra-cranial lesions; (e) dyspepsia, and (/) such drugs as quinine and salicin.